-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BwujJpslSORl92c4BfLLNII5qFHLPZ3rMoLpZWca2R5RNmnbTKu1Syeb04U4+9Ab
 t3/KvzytSsVGXxqzpG47DA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000009779-99-000027.txt : 19991227
<SEC-HEADER>0000009779-99-000027.hdr.sgml : 19991227
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000009779-99-000027
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19990630
FILED AS OF DATE:		19990928

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FAIRCHILD CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000009779
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BOLTS, NUTS, SCREWS, RIVETS & WASHERS [3452]
		IRS NUMBER:				340728587
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06560
		FILM NUMBER:		99718476

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		45025 AVIATION DR
		STREET 2:		STE 400
		CITY:			DULLES
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			20166
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7034785800

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		45025 AVIATION DRIVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 400
		CITY:			DULLES
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			20166

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BANNER INDUSTRIES INC /DE/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19901118
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<TEXT>

13

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
                                      1934

 For the Year Ended June 30, 1999               Commission File Number 1-6560

                             THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

    Delaware                                             34-0728587
   (State or other jurisdiction of     (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
    Incorporation or organization)

                         45025 Aviation Drive, Suite 400
          Dulles, VA                                           20166
(Address of principal executive offices)                     (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code          (703) 478- 5800

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

 Title of each class                Name of exchange on which registered
 Class  A  Common Stock, par value  New York and Pacific Stock Exchange
  $.10 per share

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:  None

      Indicate  by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed  all  reports
required  to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange  Act  of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months (or for such  shorter  period  that  the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past ninety (90) days [X].

      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of  registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K [  ].

     On September 15, 1999, the aggregate market value of the common shares held
by nonaffiliates of the Registrant (based upon the closing price of these shares
on the New York Stock exchange) was approximately $156 million (excluding shares
deemed  beneficially  owned  by affiliates of the  Registrant  under  Commission
Rules).

      As  of September 15, 1999, the number of shares outstanding of each of the
Registrant's classes of common stock were as follows:

    Class A common stock, $.10 par value               22,265,322

    Class B common stock, $.10 par value                 2,621,652


DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

     Portions of the registrant's definitive proxy statement for the 1999 Annual
Meeting  of  Stockholders'  to be held on November 18,  1999  (the  "1999  Proxy
Statement"), which the Registrant intends to file within 120 days after June 30,
1999, are incorporated by reference into Parts III and IV.

                            THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION
                                    INDEX TO
                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                       FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1999



PART I                                                            Page

Item 1.   Business                                                  4

Item 2.   Properties                                               11

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings                                        12

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Stockholders          12

PART II

Item  5.  Market for Our Common Equity and Related
          Stockholder Matters                                     13

Item  6.  Selected Financial Data                                 14

Item  7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of
          Results of Operations and Financial Condition           15

Item  7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about
          Market Risk                                             27

Item  8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data             28

Item  9.  Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    74


PART III

Item   10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Company        74

Item   11. Executive Compensation                                 74

Item  12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
           Owners and Management                                  74

Item  13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions         74


PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,
          and Reports on Form 8-K                                75


                           FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Except  for  any  historical  information  contained  herein,  the  matters
discussed  in  this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain certain  "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation  Reform  Act
of  1995  with  respect  to our financial condition, results  of  operation  and
business.  These statements relate to analyses and other information  which  are
based  on  forecasts  of  future  results  and  estimates  of  amounts  not  yet
determinable. These statements also relate to our future prospects, developments
and  business  strategies. These forward-looking statements  are  identified  by
their  use  of terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "could,"
"estimate,"   "expect,"   "intend,"   "may,"   "plan,"    "predict,"
"project,"  "will"  and similar terms and phrases, including  references  to
assumptions.  These forward-looking statements involve risks and  uncertainties,
including  current  trend information, projections for deliveries,  backlog  and
other trend projections, that may cause our actual future activities and results
of  operations to be materially different from those suggested or  described  in
this  Annual  Report  on  Form 10-K. These risks include:  product  demand;  our
dependence  on  the  aerospace  industry; reliance  on  Boeing  and  the  Airbus
consortium  of  companies;  customer  satisfaction  and  quality  issues;  labor
disputes;  competition, including recent intense price competition; our  ability
to integrate and realize anticipated cost savings relating to our acquisition of
Kaynar  Technologies Inc.; our ability to achieve and execute internal  business
plans;  worldwide political instability and economic growth; and the  impact  of
any  economic  downturns and inflation, including the recent weaknesses  in  the
currency,  banking and equity markets of countries in South America and  in  the
Asia/Pacific region.

     If  one  or  more  of  these  risks or uncertainties  materializes,  or  if
underlying  assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results may vary  materially
from those expected, estimated or projected. Given these uncertainties, users of
the information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including investors
and  prospective  investors are cautioned not to place undue  reliance  on  such
forward-looking  statements.  We do not intend  to  update  the  forward-looking
statements  included  in  this Annual Report, even if  new  information,  future
events or other circumstances have made them incorrect or misleading.

                                     PART I

     All  references  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to  the  terms  "we,"
"our,"  "us,"  the  "Company" and "Fairchild''  refer  to  The  Fairchild
Corporation  and  its subsidiaries. All references to "fiscal" in  connection
with a year shall mean the 12 months ended June 30.

Item 1.  BUSINESS

General

     We  are  a leading worldwide aerospace and industrial fastener manufacturer
and  distribution  logistics manager and, through our  wholly-owned  subsidiary,
Banner  Aerospace,  Inc., an international supplier to the  aerospace  industry,
distributing  a  wide  range  of aircraft parts and  related  support  services.
Through  internal growth and strategic acquisitions, we have become one  of  the
leading  suppliers  of  fasteners to aircraft original  equipment  manufacturers
(such  as Boeing, the Airbus consortium, Lockheed Martin, British Aerospace  and
Aerospatiale), as well as one of the leading aerospace subcontractors  to  OEMs,
independent distributors and the aerospace aftermarket.

     Our  aerospace business consists of two segments: aerospace  fasteners  and
aerospace  parts distribution. Our aerospace fasteners segment manufactures  and
markets  high  performance  fastening  systems  used  in  the  manufacture   and
maintenance  of  commercial  and military aircraft. Our  aerospace  distribution
segment  stocks and distributes a wide variety of aircraft parts  to  commercial
airlines  and  air  cargo  carriers, fixed-base  operators,  corporate  aircraft
operators and other aerospace companies.

    Our business strategy is as follows:

     Maintain Quality Leadership. The aerospace market is extremely demanding in
terms  of  precision  manufacturing and all parts  must  be  certified  by  OEMs
pursuant to the Fedral Aviation Administration's regulations and those of  other
equivalent  foreign  regulators. Substantially all of our  plants  are  ISO-9000
approved.  We have won numerous industry and customer quality awards and  are  a
preferred  supplier  for  major aerospace customers. In  order  to  be  named  a
preferred  supplier,  a  company must qualify its products  through  a  customer
specific  quality  assurance program and adhere to it  strictly.  Approvals  and
awards we have obtained include: Boeing D1 9000 Rev A; Boeing (St. Louis) Silver
Supplier;  Boeing  Source Approved; DaimlerChrysler Aerospace  Source  Approved;
General  Electric  Source Approved; Pratt & Whitney Source  Approved;  Lockheed-
Martin Star Supplier; and DISC Large Business Supplier of the Year.

     Lower Manufacturing Costs. We have invested significantly over the past few
years   in  state-of-the-art  machinery,  employee  training  and  manufacturing
techniques  to  produce  products  at the lowest  cost  while  maintaining  high
quality.  This  investment  in process superiority  has  resulted  in  increased
capacity, lower break-even levels and faster cycle times, while reducing  defect
levels  and improving turnaround times for customers. For example, the  customer
rejection rate at our aerospace fasteners segment has fallen from an average  of
18.2%  in fiscal 1995 to an average of 1.7% for fiscal 1999. In addition,  scrap
and rework costs as a percentage of net sales in our aerospace fasteners segment
have  fallen  from an average of 9.3% in fiscal 1995 to an average of  3.9%  for
fiscal  1999. Our on-time delivery rate in our aerospace fasteners  segment  has
improved significantly since fiscal 1997, to levels that are currently the  best
in  our operating history. We view these improvements as one of the keys to  our
business success that will allow us to better manage industry cycles.

    Supply Logistics Services. Our aerospace industry customers are increasingly
requiring  additional supply chain management services as they  seek  to  manage
inventory and lower their manufacturing costs. In response, we are developing  a
number  of  logistics and supply chain management services that we  expect  will
contribute to our growth and our value to our customers.

     Capitalize  on  Global  Presence.  The aerospace  industry  is  global  and
customers  increasingly seek suppliers with the ability to provide reliable  and
timely service worldwide. The acquisition of Kaynar Technologies has resulted in
increased  manufacturing and distribution capabilities in the U.S.  and  Europe,
and sales offices worldwide.

      Growth  through  Acquisitions. Despite a trend toward  consolidation,  the
aerospace components industry remains fragmented. Consolidation has been driven,
in part, by the combination of the OEMs as they seek to reduce their procurement
costs.  We  have  successfully integrated a number  of  acquisitions,  achieving
material synergies in the process, and anticipate further opportunities to do so
in the future.

     Our strategy is based on the following strengths:

      Complementary Market Share and Expanded Product Range. Kaynar Technologies
Inc.  focused on different market segments than us, although we each focused  on
segments  where  we  could achieve economies of scale  through  the  ability  to
produce high quality parts at low cost. As a result of the acquisition of Kaynar
Technologies, we greatly expanded the range of products we offer. This expansion
permits  us to provide our customers with more complete fastening solutions,  by
offering  engineering and logistics across the breadth of a customer's aerospace
needs. For example, Kaynar Technologies's internally threaded fasteners such  as
engine  nuts,  are  now  be  sold in combination with  our  externally  threaded
fasteners,  such as bolts and pins, to provide a single fastening  system.  This
will  limit  the  inventory needs of the customer, minimize handling  costs  and
reduce waste.

      Long-Term  Customer Relationships. We work closely with our  customers  to
provide  high  quality  engineering solutions accompanied  by  superior  service
levels.  As  a  result, our customer relationships are generally long-term.  For
example,  in  the Fall of 1998 we were awarded a series of long-term commitments
from  Boeing  and certain other customers to provide a significant  quantity  of
aircraft  fastening  components over the next  three  to  five  years.  We  have
benefited from the trend of OEMs in reducing their number of suppliers in recent
years  in  an  effort to lower costs and to ensure quality and availability.  We
have  become  or been retained as a key supplier to the OEMs and  increased  our
overall share of OEM business. OEMs are becoming increasingly demanding in terms
of  overall service level, including just-in-time delivery of components to  the
production line. We believe that our focus on quality and customer service  will
remain the cornerstone of our relationships with our customers.

      Diverse End Markets. Although a significant proportion of our sales are to
OEMs  in  the  commercial aerospace industry, we have significant sales  to  the
defense,  aerospace  aftermarket  and  industrial  markets.  In  addition,   our
distribution   business  has  a  very  low  OEM  component.  We   believe   this
diversification will help mitigate the effects of the OEM cycle on our results.

      Experienced Management Teams. We have management teams with many years  of
experience  in  the  aerospace components industry and a  history  of  improving
quality,  lowering costs and raising the level of customer service,  leading  to
higher  overall profitability. In addition, our management teams  have  achieved
growth by successfully integrating a number of acquisitions.

Recent  Developments

     Our  recent developments are incorporated herein by reference from  "Recent
Developments  and  Significant  Business  Combinations"  included  in   Item   7
"Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Results of Operations  and  Financial
Condition".

Financial Information about Business Segments

     Our  business segment information is incorporated herein by reference  from
Note  19 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data"

Narrative Description of Business Segments

Aerospace Fasteners

     Through  our  aerospace  fasteners segment,  we  are  a  leading  worldwide
manufacturer  and  distributor  of fastening  systems,  used  primarily  in  the
construction  and maintenance of commercial and military aircraft,  as  well  as
applications in other industries, including the automotive, electronic and other
non-aerospace industries. Our April 20, 1999 acquisition of Kaynar  Technologies
has  expanded  our  product range to provide our customers  with  more  complete
fastening solutions by offering engineering and logistics across the breadth  of
a  customer's aerospace needs. In the past 20 months, we have made  a  concerted
effort to establish a substantial position in the distribution/logistics segment
of  the  aerospace  fasteners industry. Through the  acquisitions  of  Special-T
Fasteners  in  the  United States and AS+C in Europe, we have created  a  unique
capability  that  we  believe enhances dramatically our status  as  the  premier
fastening  solutions  provider in the industry. The aerospace  fastener  segment
accounted for 71.7% of our net sales in fiscal 1999.

  Products (1) (see note below)

     In general, the aerospace fasteners we produce are highly engineered, close
tolerance, high strength fastening devices designed for use in harsh,  demanding
environments.  Products  range from standard aerospace screws,  precision  self-
locking  internally threaded nuts, to more complex systems that fasten  airframe
structures, and sophisticated latching or quick disconnect mechanisms that allow
efficient   access  to  internal  parts  which  require  regular  servicing   or
monitoring.  Our aerospace fasteners segment produces and sells  products  under
various trade names and trademarks. The trademarks discussed below either belong
to  us or to third parties, which have licensed us to use such trademarks. These
trade   names  and  trademarks  include:  Voi-Shan  (fasteners  for  aerospace
structures),  Screwcorp (standard externally threaded products  for  aerospace
applications),  K-FAST nuts (anchor nuts, gang channels,  shank  nuts,  barrel
nuts,  clinch  nuts  and stake nuts for defense and aerospace applications),  K-
Sert  (inserts that include keys to lock the insert in place and  prevent  any
rotation), RAM (custom designed mechanisms for aerospace applications), Perma-
Thread and Thin Wall (inserts that create a thread inside a hole and provide
a   high   degree  of  thread  protection  and  fastening  integrity),  Camloc??
(components  for the industrial, electronic, automotive and aerospace  markets),
and  Tridair  and Rosan (fastening systems for highly-engineered  aerospace,
military  and  industrial applications). Our aerospace  fasteners  segment  also
manufactures  and  supplies fastening systems used in non-aerospace  industrial,
electronic and marine applications.

    Principal product lines of the aerospace fasteners segment include:

     Standard Aerospace Airframe Fasteners - These fasteners consist of standard
externally  threaded fasteners used in non-critical airframe applications  on  a
wide variety of aircraft.  These fasteners include Hi-Torque Speed Drive, Tri-
Wing,  Torq-Set and  Phillips.  We offer the broadest line of lightweight,
non-metallic composite fasteners, used primarily for military aircraft  as  they
are designed to reduce radar visibility, enhance resistance to lightning strikes
and  provide galvanic corrosion protection.  We also offer a variety of coatings
and  finishes  for our fasteners, including anodizing, cadmium  plating,  silver
plating,  aluminum  plating, solid film lubricants  and  water-based  cetyl  and
solvent free lubricants.

    Commercial  Aerospace  Self-Locking Nuts  -  These  precision,  self-locking
internally threaded nuts are used in the manufacture of commercial aircraft  and
aerospace  defense  products  and are designed principally  for  use  in  harsh,
demanding environments and include wrenchable nuts, K-Fast nuts, anchor  nuts,
gang channels, shank nuts, barrel nuts, clinch nuts and stake nuts.

     Commercial  Aerospace  Structural and Engine Fasteners  -  These  fasteners
consist of more highly engineered, permanent or semi-permanent fasteners used in
non-critical  but  more  sophisticated airframe and engine  applications,  which
could  involve  joining more than two materials.  These fasteners are  generally
engineered  to  specific  customer  requirements  or  manufactured  to  specific
customer  specifications  for  special applications,  often  involving  exacting
standards.   We  produce  fasteners  from  a  variety  of  materials,  including
lightweight  aluminum  and titanium nuts for airframes, to high-strength,  high-
temperature  tolerant  engine nuts manufactured from materials  such  as  A-286,
Waspaloy  and  Hastelloy.   These fasteners include  Hi-Lok,  Veri-Lite,
Eddie-Bolt and customer proprietary engine nuts.

     Proprietary Products and Fastening Systems - These very highly  engineered,
proprietary fasteners are designed by us for specific customer applications  and
include  high  performance structural latches and hold down  mechanisms.   These
fasteners  are  usually proprietary in nature and are used primarily  in  either
commercial aerospace or military applications. They include Visu-Lok??, Composi-
Lok, Keen-serts, Mark IV, Flatbeam, and Ringlock.

           Threaded Inserts - These threaded inserts are used principally in the
commercial  aerospace  and defense industries are made of high-grade  steel  and
other high-tensile metals which are intended to be installed into softer metals,
plastics and composite materials to create bolt-ready holes.

      Highly  Engineered Fastening Systems for Industrial Applications  -  These
highly  engineered fasteners are designed by us for specific niche  applications
in  the electronic, automotive and durable goods markets and are sold under  the
Camloc trade name.

     Precision  Machined Structural Components and Assemblies - These  precision
machined  structural components and assemblies are used for aircraft,  including
pylons, flap hinges, struts, wings fittings, landing gear parts, spares and many
other items

    Fastener Tools - These tools are designed primarily to install the fasteners
and inserts that we manufacture, but can also be used to attach other wrenchable
nuts, bolts and inserts.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1)  - Note on the use of registered trademarks. The trademarks discussed herein
either  belong to the Company or to third parties who have licensed the  Company
to  use  such trademarks.  Tri-Wing, Torq-set and Phillips are  registered
trademarks  of Phillips Screw Company.  Waspaloy is a trademark  of  Carpenter
Technologies  Corporation.   Hastelloy is a  registered  trademark  of  Haynes
International,  Inc.  Hi-Lok is registered trademark of Hi-Shear  Corporation.
Visul-lok  and  Composi-lok are registered trademarks of Monogram  Aerospace
Fasteners, Inc.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Sales and Markets

     The  products  of  our aerospace fasteners segment are  sold  primarily  to
domestic  and  foreign OEMs of airframes and engine assemblies, as  well  as  to
subcontractors  to  OEMs,  and  to the maintenance  and  repair  market  through
distributors.  Sixty-six  percent of its sales are  domestic.   Major  customers
include  OEMs such as Boeing, the Airbus consortium, and Aerospatiale and  their
subcontractors,  as  well as major distributors such as  AlliedSignal,  Tri-Star
Aerospace  and  Wesco  Aircraft  Hardware. In addition,  OEMs  have  implemented
programs  to reduce inventories and pursue just-in-time relationships. This  has
allowed  parts distributors to expand significantly their business due to  their
ability to better meet OEM objectives.  In response, we are expanding efforts to
provide parts through our global customer services units which include
recently acquired distributors formely know as Special-T Fasteners  in  the
United States and AS+C GmbH in Europe.  Although  no  one
customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated sales in fiscal 1999, a
large portion of our revenues come from customers providing parts or services to
Boeing,   including  defense  sales,  and  the  Airbus  consortium   and   their
subcontractors.  Accordingly,  we  are  dependent  on  the  business  of   those
manufacturers.

     Revenues in our aerospace fasteners segment are closely related to aircraft
production.   As  OEMs  searched  for  cost  cutting  opportunities  during  the
aerospace  industry  recession  of  1993-1995,  parts  manufacturers,  including
ourselves,  accepted  lower-priced  orders and/or  smaller  quantity  orders  to
maintain  market share, at lower profit margins.  However, during recent  years,
this  situation  has  improved  as build rates in the  aerospace  industry  have
increased  and  resulted  in capacity constraints.   Although  lead  times  have
increased,  we  have  been  able to provide our major customers  with  favorable
pricing,  while  maintaining or increasing margins  by  negotiating  for  larger
minimum lot sizes that are more economic to manufacture.

    Fasteners also have applications in the automotive/industrial markets, where
numerous  special fasteners are required, such as engine bolts, wheel bolts  and
turbo charger tension bolts.  We are actively targeting the automotive market as
a hedge against the downturn in the aerospace industry.

   Manufacturing and Production

   Our aerospace fasteners segment has fifteen primary manufacturing facilities,
of  which eight are located in the United States, six are located in Europe  and
one  is  located in Australia.  Each facility has virtually complete  production
capability, and subcontracts only those production steps which exceed  capacity.
Each  plant  is  designed to produce a specified product or group  of  products,
determined  by  the production process involved and certification  requirements.
Our  aerospace fasteners segments largest customers have recognized its  quality
and  operational controls by conferring their advanced quality systems
certifications at all of our facilities (e.g. Boeing's D1-900A).  All of its
aerospace  manufacturing facilities are "preferred suppliers".  We have
recently received all necessary quality and product approval from OEMs.

    We have a modern information system at all of our U.S. facilities, which was
expanded  to  most  of our European operations in fiscal 1999.  The  new  system
performs  detailed  and  timely  cost analysis  of  production  by  product  and
facility. Updated MIS systems also help us to better service our customers. OEMs
require each product to be produced in an OEM-qualified/OEM-approved facility.

   Competition

     Despite  intense  competition  in  the industry,  we  remain  the  dominant
manufacturer of aerospace fasteners.  Based on calendar 1998 information,
the worldwide aerospace fastener market is estimated   to   be  $1.7  billion
(before  distributor  resales).  We hold approximately 30% of the market and
compete with SPS Technologies, GFI Industries, and the  Huck International
division of the Cordant Technologies Corporation,  which we  believe hold
approximately 15%, 11% and 10% of the market, respectively.

     Quality, performance, service and price are generally the prime competitive
factors in the aerospace fasteners segment. Our broad product range allows us to
more  fully  serve each OEM and distributor. Our product array  is  diverse  and
offers customers a large selection to address various production needs. We  seek
to   maintain  our  technological  edge  and  competitive  advantage  over   our
competitors,  and have demonstrated our innovative production  methods  and  new
products to meet customer demands. We seek to work closely with OEMs and involve
ourselves  early  in  the  design process in order  that  our  products  may  be
incorporated into the design of their products.

Aerospace Distribution

     We  distribute a wide variety of aircraft parts, which we purchase  on  the
open  market  or  acquire  from OEMs as an authorized  distributor.   No  single
distributor  arrangement is material to our financial condition.  The  aerospace
distribution segment accounted for 27.3% of our total sales in fiscal 1999.

   Products

     An  extensive inventory of products and a quick response time are essential
in  providing  service to our customers.  Another key factor in selling  to  our
customers  is our ability to maintain a system that traces a part  back  to  the
manufacturer or repair facility.

     Products of the aerospace distribution segment are divided into two groups:
rotables  and  engines.   Rotables  include flight  data  recorders,  radar  and
navigation   systems,  instruments  and  hydraulic  and  electrical  components.
Engines  include  jet engines and engine parts for use on both narrow  and  wide
body  aircraft  and  smaller  engines for corporate and  regional  aircraft.  We
provide a number of services such as immediate shipment of parts in aircraft-on-
ground situations. We also buy and sell aircraft from time to time.

      Rotable  parts  are sometimes purchased as new parts,  but  are  generally
purchased in the aftermarket and are then overhauled by us or for us by  outside
contractors, including OEMs or FAA-licensed facilities.  Rotables are sold in  a
variety  of  conditions  such  as  new, overhauled,  serviceable  and  "as  is".
Rotables may also be exchanged instead of sold.  An exchange occurs when an item
in  inventory is exchanged for a customers part and the customer is  charged  an
exchange  fee  plus  the actual cost to overhaul the part.  Engines  and  engine
components are sold "as is", overhauled or disassembled for resale as parts.

   Sales and Markets

      Our aerospace distribution segment sells its products in the United States
and  abroad to commercial airlines and air cargo carriers, fixed-base operators,
corporate  aircraft  operators,  distributors  and  other  aerospace  companies.
Approximately 72.7% of our sales are to domestic purchasers, some  of  whom  may
represent offshore users.

      Our aerospace distribution segment conducts marketing efforts through  its
direct  sales  force,  outside  representatives and,  for  some  product  lines,
overseas  sales  offices.  Sales in the aviation aftermarket  depend  on  price,
service,  quality and reputation. Our aerospace distribution segment's  business
does  not  experience significant seasonal fluctuations nor depend on  a  single
customer.   No  single customer accounts for more than 10% of  our  consolidated
revenue.

      Dallas  Aerospace, Inc., our aerospace distribution's largest  subsidiary,
sells  jet  engines  and  engine parts for use on  both  narrow  and  wide  body
aircraft.  In  addition,  Dallas  Aerospace provides  engine  repair  management
services and engine leasing to a variety of airline and air cargo customers  and
has  bought  and  sold  large commercial aircraft from time  to  time.  We  have
expressed  our  intent  to sell, and are attempting to reach  agreement  with  a
possible purchaser of Dallas Aerospace.

 Competition

     The  rotables  group  competes with Air Ground Equipment  Services,  Duncan
Aviation,  Stevens Aviation, OEMs such as Honeywell, Rockwell Collins, Raytheon,
and   Litton,   and   other  fixed  based  operators  and   maintenance   repair
organizations.   The major competitors for our engine group  are  OEMs  such  as
General  Electric  Company  and Pratt & Whitney, as well  as  the  engine  parts
division  of AAR Corp., Kellstrom Industries, and Air Ground Equipment Services,
and many smaller companies.

Other Operations

    Our  other operations included a company operating under the trade  name  of
Fairchild  Gas Springs, which we sold subsequent to June 30, 1999. We  also  own
Fairchild  Technologies, a technology products unit which designs,  manufactures
and  markets high performance production equipment and systems required for  the
manufacture  of  recordable compact discs. Additionally,  we  also  own  several
parcels of developed and undeveloped land almost entirely representing residuals
of  operations previously divested or closed. Included among these is an 88-acre
site  in  Farmingdale,  New  York, on which we are  currently  developing  as  a
shopping center. We are pursuing the liquidation of the remaining components  of
Fairchild Technologies.

Foreign Operations

Our  operations  are  located throughout the world.  Inter-area  sales  are  not
significant to the total revenue of any geographic area.  Export sales are  made
by U.S. businesses to customers in non-U.S. countries, whereas foreign sales are
made by our non-U.S. subsidiaries.  For our sales results by geographic area and
export  sales, see Note 20 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included  in
Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
Backlog of Orders

    Backlog is important for all our operations, due to the long-term production
requirements of our customers.  Our backlog of orders as of June 30, 1999 in the
aerospace  fasteners  segment  and aerospace distribution  segment  amounted  to
$215.3 million and $12.5 million, respectively. We anticipate that in excess  of
87%  of  the  aggregate backlog at June 30, 1999 will be delivered by  June  30,
2000.  In  the  fall of 1998, we were awarded a series of long-term  commitments
from  Boeing to provide a significant quantity of aircraft fastening  components
over  the  next three to five years, however, amounts related to such agreements
are  not  included  in  our backlog until Boeing specifies  delivery  dates  for
fasteners ordered.

Suppliers

     We  are  not materially dependent upon any one supplier, but are  dependent
upon  a wide range of subcontractors, vendors and suppliers of materials to meet
our  commitments  to our customers. From time to time, we enter  into  exclusive
supply contracts in return for logistics and price advantages. We do not believe
that any one of these contracts would impair our operations if a supplier failed
to perform.

      Nevertheless, commercial deposits of certain metals, such as titanium  and
nickel,  which are required for the manufacture of several of our products,  are
found  only in certain parts of the world. The availability and prices of  these
metals  may be influenced by private or governmental cartels, changes  in  world
politics,  unstable  governments in exporting nations or  inflation.  Similarly,
supplies of steel and other less exotic metals used by us may also be subject to
variation in availability. We purchase raw materials, which include the  various
metals,  composites, and finishes used in production, from over twenty different
suppliers.  We have recently entered into several long-term titanium  and  alloy
supply contracts. In the past, fluctuations in the price of titanium have had an
adverse effect on our sales margins.

Research and Patents

     We  own  patents relating to the design and manufacture of certain  of  our
products  and  are  licensees of technology covered  by  the  patents  of  other
companies.  We  do not believe that any of our business segments  are  dependent
upon any single patent.

Personnel

    As  of  June  30,  1999,  we had approximately 5,200  employees.  Of  these,
approximately  3,400  and of our employees are based in the  United  States  and
1,800 are based in Europe and elsewhere. Approximately 20% of our employees were
covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although we have had isolated  work
stoppages in France in the past, these stoppages have not had a material  impact
on  our business. Overall, we believe that our relations with our employees  are
good.

Environmental Matters

     A  discussion  of  our  environmental  matters  is  included  in  Note  18,
"Contingencies", to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part  II,
Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and is incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

     As  of  June  30, 1999, we owned or leased buildings totaling approximately
2,100,000  square feet, of which approximately 1,246,000 square feet  was  owned
and   854,000  square  feet  was  leased.   Our  aerospace  fasteners  segment's
properties  consisted  of approximately 1,722,000 square  feet,  with  principal
operating  facilities  of approximately 1,543,000 square  feet  concentrated  in
Southern   California,  Massachusetts,  France  and  Germany.    The   aerospace
distribution  segment's  properties consisted of  approximately  233,000  square
feet,  with principal operating facilities of approximately 155,000 square  feet
located  in  Texas and Georgia.  We own our corporate headquarters  building  at
Washington-Dulles International Airport.

    The following table sets forth the location of the larger properties used in
our  continuing operations, their square footage, the business segment or groups
they serve and their primary use.  Each of the properties owned or leased by  us
is,  in  our  opinion, generally well maintained. All of our occupied properties
are maintained and updated on a regular basis.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                     Owned  Square
                      or
                                        Business       Primary
     Location       Leased Footage   Segment/Group      Use
<S>                 <C>     <C>     <C>               <C>
Saint Cosme,        Owned 304,000  Aerospace
France                             Fasteners         Manufacturing
Torrance,           Owned 284,000  Aerospace
California                         Fasteners         Manufacturing
Fullerton,          Owned 255,000  Aerospace
California                         Fasteners         Manufacturing
City of Industry,   Owned 140,000  Aerospace
California                         Fasteners         Manufacturing
Carrollton, Texas  Leased 126,000  Aerospace
                                  Distribution       Distribution
Dulles, Virginia    Owned 125,000  Corporate         Office
Stoughton,         Leased 120,000  Aerospace
Massachusetts                      Fasteners         Manufacturing
Huntington Beach,   Owned  86,000  Aerospace
California                         Fasteners         Manufacturing
Montbrison, France  Owned  63,000  Aerospace
                                   Fasteners         Manufacturing
Hildesheim,         Owned  57,000  Aerospace
Germany                            Fasteners         Manufacturing
Toulouse, France    Owned  56,000  Aerospace
                                   Fasteners         Manufacturing
Kelkheim, Germany   Owned  52,000  Aerospace
                                   Fasteners         Manufacturing
Chatsworth,        Leased  36,000  Aerospace
California                         Fasteners         Distribution
Atlanta, Georgia   Leased  29,000  Aerospace
                                  Distribution       Distribution
</TABLE>

      We  have  several parcels of property which we are attempting  to  market,
lease  and/or  develop, including:  (i) an eighty-eight acre parcel  located  in
Farmingdale, New York, (ii) a six acre parcel in Temple City, California,  (iii)
an  eight acre parcel in Chatsworth, California, and (iv) several other  parcels
of real estate, located primarily throughout the continental United States.

      Information concerning our long-term rental obligations at June 30,  1999,
is  set  forth in Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included  in
Item  8,  "Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data",  and  is  incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

      A   discussion  of  our  legal  proceedings  is  included  in   Note   18,
"Contingencies", to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part  II,
Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data", of this annual report and
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF STOCKHOLDERS

There  were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.
PART II

ITEM 5 MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Market Information

     Our  Class  A  common stock is traded on the New York  Stock  Exchange  and
Pacific  Stock Exchange under the symbol FA.  Our Class B common  stock  is  not
listed  on any exchange and is not publicly traded. Class B common stock can  be
converted to Class A common stock at any time at the option of the holder.

     Information regarding the quarterly price range of our Class A common stock
is  incorporated herein by reference from Note 21 of our Consolidated  Financial
Statements included in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".

Holders of Record

     We had approximately 1,325 and 39 record holders of our Class A and Class B
common stock, respectively, at September 15, 1999.

Dividends

      Our  current  policy is to retain earnings to support the  growth  of  our
present  operations and to reduce our outstanding debt. Any  future  payment  of
dividends  will be determined by our Board of Directors and will depend  on  our
financial condition, results of operations and by restrictive covenants  in  our
credit agreement and 10 ??% senior subordinated notes that limit the payment  of
dividends  over their respective terms. See Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".

Sale of Unregistered Securities

     In  fiscal  1998, we adopted a stock option deferral plan for officers  and
directors, pursuant to which recipients of stock options may elect to defer  the
gain  on  exercise of stock options.  The "gain" is the difference  between  the
market value of the shares issued to an officer or director upon exercise of the
stock option, and the price paid by the officer or director for the exercise  of
such  stock option.  An officer's or director's deferred gain is issued  in  the
form  of "deferred compensation units." Each deferred compensation unit entitles
the  recipient  to receive one share of Class A common stock upon expiration  of
the "deferral period" for the stock options exercised.

     The deferred compensation units may be deemed our securities. Only officers
and  directors  who  are accredited investors are allowed to  elect  to  receive
deferred  compensation units. The shares issued to an officer or  director  upon
expiration of the deferral period (in exchange for deferred compensation  units)
have been registered pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-8.

        Under  the stock option deferral plan, in fiscal 1998 J. Flynn, deferred
$85,313  in exchange for 4,027 deferred compensation units; D. Miller,  deferred
$85,313  in exchange for 4,027 deferred compensation units; E. Steiner, deferred
$573,750 in exchange for 24,545 deferred compensation units; and in fiscal  1999
D. Miller deferred $135,000 in exchange for 8,852 deferred compensation units.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                           Five-Year Financial Summary
                      (In thousands, except per share data)

                                  For the years ended June 30,
Summary of Operations:           1999   1998      1997    1996    1995
<S>                             <C>     <C>       <C>     <C>     <C>
 Net sales                     617,322   741,176   680,763 349,236 220,351
 Gross profit                  112,429   186,506   181,344  74,101  26,491
 Operating income (loss)       (45,911)   45,443    33,499 (11,286)(30,333)
 Net interest expense           30,346    42,715    47,681  56,459  64,113
 Earnings (loss) from          (23,507)   52,399     1,816 (32,186)(56,280)
continuing operations
 Earnings (loss) per share from
continuing
operations:
      Basic                      (1.03)     2.78      0.11   (1.98)  (3.49)
      Diluted                    (1.03)     2.66      0.11   (1.98)  (3.49)
 Other Data:
 EBITDA                        (20,254)   66,316    54,314   5,931  (9,830)
 Capital expenditures           30,142    36,029    15,014   5,680   5,383
 Cash provided by (used for)    23,268   (85,231)  (93,321)(48,951)(25,040)
operating activities
 Cash provided by (used for)   (99,157)   43,614    73,238  57,540 (19,156)
investing activities
 Cash provided by (used for)    81,218    74,088    (1,455)(39,637) 12,345
financing activities
 Balance Sheet Data:
 Total assets                1,328,786 1,157,259 1,052,666 993,398 828,680

 Long-term debt, less current  495,283   295,402   416,922 368,589 508,225
maturities
 Redeemable preferred stock of      --        --        --      --  16,342
subsidiary
 Stockholders' equity          407,500   473,559   232,424 230,861  39,278
 per outstanding common
  share                          16.38     20.54     13.98   14.10    2.50
</TABLE>

      The  results  of Banner Aerospace, Inc. are included in the periods  since
February  25,  1996,  when Banner Aerospace became a majority-owned  subsidiary.
Prior to February 25, 1996, our investment in Banner Aerospace was accounted for
using  the equity method. Fiscal 1998 includes the gain from the disposition  of
Banner  Aerospace's  hardware  group. The results  of  the  hardware  group  are
included   in  the  periods  from  March  1996  through  December  1997,   until
disposition.  Fiscal  1999  includes  the loss  on  the  disposition  of  Banner
Aerospace's Solair subsidiary and the loss recognized on the potential  sale  of
Dallas  Aerospace. The results of Solair are included in the periods from  March
1996  through  December  1998, until disposition. These transactions  materially
affect  the comparability of the information reflected in the selected financial
data.

      EBITDA  represents  the  sum of operating income before  depreciation  and
amortization. Included in EBITDA are restructuring and unusual charges of $6,374
and  $2,319 in fiscal 1999 and 1996, respectively. We consider EBITDA to  be  an
indicative measure of our operating performance due to the significance  of  our
long-lived  assets and because such data is considered useful by the  investment
community  to  better  understand our results, and can be used  to  measure  our
ability  to  service  debt, fund capital expenditures and expand  our  business.
EBITDA  is  not  a  measure of financial performance  under  GAAP,  may  not  be
comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies and should  not
be  considered  as  an alternative either to net income as an indicator  of  our
operating  performance,  or to cash flows as a measure of  our  liquidity.  Cash
expenditures  for various long-term assets, interest expense, and  income  taxes
have  been,  and  will  be  incurred  which are  not  reflected  in  the  EBITDA
presentation.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
                FINANCIAL CONDITION

      The Fairchild Corporation was incorporated in October 1969, under the laws
of the State of Delaware, under the name of Banner Industries, Inc.  On November
15,  1990,  we  changed our name from Banner Industries, Inc. to  The  Fairchild
Corporation.   We  are  the  owner  of 100% of RHI  Holdings,  Inc.  and  Banner
Aerospace,  Inc.  RHI  is  the  owner of 100% of Fairchild  Holding  Corp.   Our
principal operations are conducted through FHC and Banner Aerospace. During  the
periods presented, we held significant equity interests in Nacanco Paketleme and
Shared Technologies Fairchild Inc.

      The following discussion and analysis provide information which management
believes is relevant to assessment and understanding of our consolidated results
of  operations  and  financial  condition. The  discussion  should  be  read  in
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

GENERAL

      We  are a leading worldwide aerospace and industrial fastener manufacturer
and   distribution   logistics  manager  and,  through  Banner   Aerospace,   an
international supplier to airlines and general aviation businesses, distributing
a  wide  range of aircraft parts and related support services. Through  internal
growth  and strategic acquisitions, we have become one of the leading  suppliers
of  fasteners  to  aircraft  OEMs,  such as Boeing,  Lockheed  Martin,  Northrop
Grumman,  and  the  Airbus consortium, including, Aerospatiale,  DaimlerChrysler
Aerospace, British Aerospace and CASA.

      Our  aerospace business consists of two segments: aerospace fasteners  and
aerospace distribution. The aerospace fasteners segment manufactures and markets
high  performance fastening systems used in the manufacture and  maintenance  of
commercial and military aircraft. The aerospace distribution segment stocks  and
distributes  a  wide variety of aircraft parts to commercial  airlines  and  air
cargo  carriers,  fixed-base operators, corporate aircraft operators  and  other
aerospace companies.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT

      Certain statements in this financial discussion and analysis by management
contain  certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the  Private
Securities  Litigation  Reform  Act  of  1995  with  respect  to  our  financial
condition,  results  of  operation  and business.  These  statements  relate  to
analyses  and  other information which are based on forecasts of future  results
and  estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements also relate  to
our  future  prospects,  developments and business  strategies.  These  forward-
looking  statements  are identified by their use of terms and  phrases  such  as
"anticipate,"  "believe," "could," "estimate,"  "expect,"  "intend,"
"may,"  "plan,"  "predict," "project," "will" and  similar  terms  and
phrases,  including references to assumptions. These forward-looking  statements
involve   risks   and   uncertainties,  including  current  trend   information,
projections for deliveries, backlog and other trend projections, that may  cause
our  actual  future  activities  and results  of  operations  to  be  materially
different from those suggested or described in this Annual Report on Form  10-K.
These  risks include: product demand; our dependence on the aerospace  industry;
reliance on Boeing and the Airbus consortium of companies; customer satisfaction
and  quality issues; labor disputes; competition, including recent intense price
competition; our ability to integrate and realize anticipated synergies relating
to  the  acquisition  of Kaynar Technologies Inc.; our ability  to  achieve  and
execute  internal business plans; worldwide political instability  and  economic
growth;  and  the impact of any economic downturns and inflation, including  the
recent  weaknesses in the currency, banking and equity markets of  countries  in
South America and in the Asia/Pacific region.

      If  one  or  more  of  these risks or uncertainties  materializes,  or  if
underlying  assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results may vary  materially
from those expected, estimated or projected. Given these uncertainties, users of
the   information  included  in  this  financial  discussion  and  analysis   by
management, including investors and prospective investors are cautioned  not  to
place  undue  reliance on such forward-looking statements. We do not  intend  to
update  these  forward-looking statements in this Annual  Report,  even  if  new
information,  future events or other circumstances have made them  incorrect  or
misleading.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

   Business Transactions

      The following summarizes certain business combinations and transactions we
completed  which significantly affect the comparability of the period to  period
results  presented in this Management's Discussion and Analysis  of  Results  of
Operations and Financial Condition.

   Fiscal 1999 Transactions

      On  December  31, 1998, Banner consummated the sale of Solair,  Inc.,  its
largest  subsidiary in the rotables group of the aerospace distribution segment,
to  Kellstrom Industries, Inc., in exchange for approximately $60.4  million  in
cash  and a warrant to purchase 300,000 shares of common stock of Kellstrom.  In
December  1998, Banner recorded a $19.3 million pre-tax loss from  the  sale  of
Solair.  This  loss  was  included in cost of goods sold  as  it  was  primarily
attributable  to the bulk sale of inventory at prices below the carrying  amount
of inventory.

      On February 22, 1999, we used available cash to acquire 77.3% of SNEP S.A.
By  June 30, 1999, we had purchased significantly all of the remaining shares of
SNEP.  The  total  amount  paid was approximately $8.0 million,  including  $1.1
million  of debt assumed, in a business combination accounted for as a purchase.
The  total cost of the acquisition exceeded the fair value of the net assets  of
SNEP  by  approximately $4.3 million, which is preliminarily being allocated  as
goodwill, and amortized using the straight-line method over 40 years.  SNEP is a
French manufacturer of precision machined self-locking nuts and special threaded
fasteners serving the European industrial, aerospace and automotive markets.

      On  April 8, 1999, we acquired the remaining 15% of the outstanding common
and  preferred stock of Banner Aerospace, Inc. not already owned by us,  through
the merger of Banner with one of our subsidiaries. Under the terms of the merger
with  Banner, we issued 2,981,412 shares of our Class A common stock to  acquire
all  of  Banner's common and preferred stock (other than those already owned  by
us). Banner is now our wholly-owned subsidiary.

     On April 20, 1999, we completed the acquisition of all the capital stock of
Kaynar   Technologies   Inc.  for  approximately  $222   million   and   assumed
approximately $103 million of Kaynar Technologies's existing debt, the  majority
of  which  was  refinanced at closing. In addition, we paid $28  million  for  a
covenant   not   to   compete  from  Kaynar  Technologies's  largest   preferred
shareholder.  The total cost of the acquisition exceeded the fair value  of  the
net  assets  of  Kaynar Technologies by approximately $269.7 million,  which  is
preliminarily being allocated as goodwill, and amortized using the straight-line
method over 40 years. The acquisition was financed with existing cash, the  sale
of  $225 million of 10 3/4% senior subordinated notes due 2009 and proceeds from
a new bank credit facility.

      On  June  18,  1999,  we completed the acquisition of  Technico  S.A.  for
approximately $4.1 million and assumed approximately $2.2 million of  Technico's
existing debt. The total cost of the acquisition exceeded the fair value of  the
net  assets  of  Technico by approximately $2.9 million, which is  preliminarily
being  allocated as goodwill, and amortized using the straight-line method  over
40  years.  The  acquisition was financed with additional  borrowings  from  our
credit facility.

   Fiscal 1998 Transactions

      On  March  11,  1998,  Shared  Technologies  Fairchild  Inc.  merged  into
Intermedia Communications Inc. Under the terms of the merger, holders of  Shared
Technologies  Fairchild  common stock received $15.00  per  share  in  cash.  We
received  approximately $178.0 million in cash (before tax and selling expenses)
in  exchange for the common and preferred stock of Shared Technologies Fairchild
we  owned.   In fiscal 1998, we recorded a $96.0 million gain, net  of  tax,  on
disposal of discontinued operations, from the proceeds received from the  merger
of  Shared  Technologies  Fairchild  with  Intermedia.  The  results  of  Shared
Technologies Fairchild have been accounted for as discontinued operations.

      On  November 28, 1997, we acquired AS+C GmbH, Aviation Supply + Consulting
in  a  business combination accounted for as a purchase. The total cost  of  the
acquisition was $14.0 million, which exceeded the fair value of the  net  assets
of  AS+C  by  approximately  $8.1 million, which is allocated  as  goodwill  and
amortized  using the straight-line method over 40 years. We purchased AS+C  with
cash borrowings. AS+C is an aerospace parts, logistics, and distribution company
primarily servicing the European OEM market.

      On  December  19,  1997,  we  completed a  secondary  offering  of  public
securities.   The offering consisted of an issuance of 3,000,000 shares  of  our
Class  A  common stock at $20.00 per share, which generated $57 million  of  net
proceeds.  On  December  19,  1997,  immediately  following  the  Offering,   we
restructured our FHC and RHI credit agreements by entering into a new six-and-a-
half-year  credit  facility  to provide us with a $300  million  senior  secured
credit facility consisting of (i) a $75 million revolving loan with a letter  of
credit  sub-facility of $30 million and a $10 million swing  loan  sub-facility,
and (ii) a $225 million term loan.

      On  January  13,  1998,  Banner  Aerospace completed  the  disposition  of
substantially  all  of  the assets and certain liabilities  of  certain  of  its
subsidiaries to two wholly-owned subsidiaries of AlliedSignal Inc., in  exchange
for shares of AlliedSignal common stock with an aggregate value of $369 million.
The assets transferred to AlliedSignal consisted primarily of Banner Aerospace's
hardware  group,  which  included the distribution  of  bearings,  nuts,  bolts,
screws, rivets and other types of fasteners, and its PacAero unit. Approximately
$196  million of the common stock received from AlliedSignal Inc.  was  used  to
repay  outstanding  term loans of Banner Aerospace's subsidiaries,  and  related
fees.

      On  February 3, 1998, with the proceeds of the equity offering, term  loan
borrowings under the credit facility, and a portion of the after tax proceeds we
received from the Shared Technologies Fairchild, we refinanced substantially all
of   our  then  existing  indebtedness  (other  than  indebtedness  of  Banner),
consisting  of (i) $63.0 million to redeem 11 7/8% Senior Debentures  due  1999;
(ii)  $117.6 million to redeem 12% Intermediate Debentures due 2001; (iii) $35.9
million  to redeem 13 1/8% Subordinated Debentures due 2006; (iv) $25.1  million
to redeem 13% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2007; and (vi) accrued interest
of $10.6 million.

      On  March  2,  1998, we acquired Edwards and Lock Management  Corporation,
doing  business as Special-T Fasteners, in a business combination accounted  for
as  a purchase. The cost of the acquisition was approximately $50.0 million,  of
which 50.1% of the contractual purchase price was paid in shares of our Class  A
common  stock  and  49.9% was paid in cash. The total cost  of  the  acquisition
exceeded  the  fair value of the net assets of Special-T by approximately  $23.3
million, which is being allocated as goodwill, and amortized using the straight-
line  method  over  40  years.   Special-T manages the  logistics  of  worldwide
distribution  of  Company-manufactured precision fasteners to customers  in  the
aerospace industry, government agencies, OEMs, and other distributors.

      On  May  11,  1998, we commenced an offer to exchange, for  each  properly
tendered  share  of common stock of Banner, a number of shares of  our  Class  A
common stock, par value $0.10 per share, equal to the quotient of $12.50 divided
by  $20.675  up  to  a maximum of 4,000,000 shares of Banner Aerospace's  common
stock. The exchange offer expired on June 9, 1998 and 3,659,364 shares of Banner
Aerospace's  common  stock  were validly tendered for  exchange  and  we  issued
2,212,361 shares Class A common stock to the tendering shareholders.

Fiscal 1997 Transactions

      In February 1997, we completed a transaction pursuant to which we acquired
common  shares and convertible debt representing an 84.2% interest, on  a  fully
diluted basis, of Simmonds S.A. We then initiated a tender offer to purchase the
remaining shares and convertible debt held by the public.  By June 30, 1997,  we
had  purchased,  or  placed  sufficient cash in  escrow  to  purchase,  all  the
remaining shares and convertible debt of Simmonds. The total purchase  price  of
Simmonds,  including  the assumption of debt, was approximately  $62.0  million,
which  we  funded with available cash and borrowings. We recorded  approximately
$20.5  million  in  goodwill  as a result of this acquisition,  which  is  being
amortized  using  the straight-line method over 40 years.  Simmonds  is  one  of
Europe's  leading  manufacturers and distributors of  aerospace  and  automotive
fasteners.

      On  June  30,  1997,  we  sold all the patents of  Fairchild  Scandinavian
Bellyloading Company to Teleflex Incorporated for $5.0 million, and  immediately
thereafter sold all the stock of Fairchild Scandinavian Bellyloading Company  to
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Teleflex for $2.0 million.

  Consolidated Results

     We currently report in two principal business segments: aerospace fasteners
and  aerospace  distribution.   The results of  the  Gas  Springs  division  are
included  in  the  Corporate  and  Other  classification.  The  following  table
illustrates the historical sales and operating income of our operations for  the
past three years.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(In thousands)                 For the years ended June 30,
                                1999     1998       1997
<S>                           <C>       <C>       <C>
 Sales by Segment:
   Aerospace Fasteners        $442,722  $387,236  $269,026
   Aerospace Distribution      168,336   358,431   411,765
   Corporate and Other           6,264     5,760    15,185
   Eliminations (a)                  -   (10,251)  (15,213)
 Total Sales                  $617,322  $741,176  $680,763

 Operating Income (Loss) by
Segment:
   Aerospace Fasteners          38,956    32,722    17,390
   Aerospace Distribution      (40,003)   20,330    30,891
   Corporate and Other         (44,864)   (7,609)  (14,782)
 Total Operating Income
(Loss) (b)                    $(45,911)  $45,443   $33,499

(a)  Represents intersegment sales from our aerospace fasteners segment  to  our
     aerospace distribution segment.
(b)  Fiscal  1999 results include an inventory impairment charges of $41,465  in
     the aerospace distribution segment, costs relating to acquisitions of
     $23,604 and restructuring charges of $5,526 in the aerospace fasteners
     segment, $348 in the aerospace distribution segment, and $500 at corporate.
</TABLE>

      The  following unaudited pro forma table illustrates sales  and  operating
income of our operations by segment, on a pro forma basis, as if we had operated
in a consistent manner for the past three years. The pro forma results represent
the impact of our merger with Kaynar Technologies (completed in April 1999), our
merger  with  Banner  Aerospace (completed in April 1999),  our  acquisition  of
Special-T  (effective  January 1998), our disposition of  Solair  (completed  in
December  1998),  our disposition of the hardware group (completed  January  13,
1998),  the  disposition of Shared Technologies Fairchild  (completed  in  March
1998),  and  our  disposition  of  Fairchild Scandinavian  Bellyloading  Company
(completed  June  30,  1997),  as  if these transactions  had  occurred  at  the
beginning  of each period presented. The pro forma information is based  on  the
historical  financial  statements  of these  companies,  giving  effect  to  the
aforementioned  transactions.  The  pro forma  information  is  not  necessarily
indicative of the results of operations that would actually have occurred if the
transactions had been in effect since the beginning of each period, nor are they
necessarily indicative of our future results.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                               For the years ended June 30,
                                1999     1998       1997
<S>                           <C>       <C>       <C>
 Sales by Segment:
   Aerospace Fasteners        $610,200  $630,538  $468,082
   Aerospace Distribution      140,017   148,339   117,781
   Corporate and Other           6,264     5,760     5,118
 Total Sales                  $756,481  $784,637  $590,981

 Operating Income (Loss) by
Segment:
   Aerospace Fasteners          54,426    68,037    32,992
   Aerospace Distribution      (20,836)    9,382     8,235
   Corporate and Other         (24,396)  (12,439)  (16,385)
 Total Operating Income
(Loss) (a)                    $  9,194  $ 64,980  $ 24,842

(a)  Fiscal  1999 results include an inventory impairment charge of  $22,145  in
     the aerospace distribution segment, costs relating to acquisitions of
     $23,604 and restructuring charges of $5,526 in the aerospace fasteners
     segment, $348 in the aerospace distribution segment, and $500 at corporate.
</TABLE>

      Net sales of $617.3 million in 1999 decreased by $123.9 million, or 16.7%,
compared  to  sales  of  $741.2 million in 1998. The  decrease  is  attributable
primarily  to  the  loss  of revenues resulting from the disposition  of  Banner
Aerospace's hardware group and Solair. Approximately 7.3% of the current  year's
sales  growth  came  from  acquisitions  in  the  aerospace  fasteners  segment.
Divestitures decreased our growth by approximately 21.0% and our internal growth
was  down  6.2%. Net sales of $741.2 million in 1998 increased by $60.4 million,
or  8.9%,  compared  to  sales  of $680.8 million  in  1997.  Sales  growth  was
stimulated   by  the  resurgent  commercial  aerospace  industry  and   business
acquisitions,  partially  offset by the loss of revenues  as  a  result  of  the
disposition  of Banner Aerospace's hardware group. Approximately  15.8%  of  the
1998 sales growth was stimulated by the resurgent commercial aerospace industry.
On  a pro forma basis, net sales decreased 3.6% and increased 32.8% in 1999  and
1998, respectively, as compared to the previous fiscal periods.

      Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 18.2%, 25.2% and 26.6% in  1999,
1998,  and  1997, respectively. Included in cost of goods sold for  1999  was  a
charge  of  $41.5 million recognized in our aerospace distribution segment  from
the disposition of Solair and the potential disposition of Dallas Aerospace.  Of
this  charge, $19.3 million was attributable to Solair's bulk sale of  inventory
at  prices below this carrying amount.  Excluding these charges, gross margin as
a  percentage of sales was 24.9% in fiscal 1999. The lower margins in the fiscal
1999  period  are  attributable  to a change in product  mix  in  our  aerospace
distribution  segment as a result of the dispositions. Partially offsetting  the
overall  lower  margins  was  an  improvement in margins  within  our  aerospace
fasteners  segment  resulting  from acquisitions, efficiencies  associated  with
increased  production, improved skills of the work force, and reduction  in  the
payment  of  overtime.  Decreased  margins  in  the  fiscal  1998  period   were
attributable to a change in product mix in the aerospace distribution segment as
a result of the disposition of Banner' Aerospace's hardware group.

      Selling,  general & administrative expense as a percentage  of  sales  was
24.2%,  19.1%, and 21.0% in fiscal 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.  Included
in  selling, general & administrative expense in fiscal 1999 were $23.6  million
of   one-time  costs  associated  primarily  with  the  acquisition  of   Kaynar
Technologies.  Excluding these costs, selling, general & administrative  expense
as a percentage of sales would have been 20.4% in 1999. This increase in 1999 is
attributable to increased environmental expenses. The improvement in fiscal 1998
was  attributable primarily to administrative efficiencies allowed by  increased
sales.

      Other  income  decreased $2.6 million in 1999 as  compared  to  1998,  and
increased  $6.5  million  in 1998 as compared to 1997.  These  changes  are  due
primarily  to the fiscal 1998 sale of air rights over a portion of the  property
we own and are developing in Farmingdale, New York.

      In fiscal 1999, we recorded $6.4 million of restructuring charges. Of this
amount, $0.5 million was recorded at our corporate office for severance benefits
and  $0.3  million was recorded at our aerospace distribution  segment  for  the
write-off  of  building improvements from premises vacated. The  remaining  $5.5
million  was  recorded as a result of the Kaynar Technologies merger integration
process  at  our  aerospace  fasteners segment for severance  benefits,  product
integration  expenses  incurred as of June 30,  1999,  and  the  write  down  of
redundant  fixed  assets. As of June 30, 1999, approximately  one-third  of  the
integration   process  has  been  executed.  We  expect  to   incur   additional
restructuring  charges  for product integration costs  during  the  next  twelve
months  at  our aerospace fasteners segment. We anticipate that our  integration
process will be substantially completed by the second quarter of fiscal 2000.

     We  reported an operating loss of $45.9 million in fiscal 1999 which was  a
decrease  from  operating income of $45.4 million reported in fiscal  1998.  The
current  year was affected by $71.4 million of expenses recognized for inventory
impairment, restructuring and costs related to acquisitions. Operating income of
$45.4  million  in  fiscal 1998 increased $11.9 million, or 35.7%,  compared  to
operating  income  of  $33.5 million in fiscal 1997. The increase  in  operating
income  was  due  primarily to the improved results in our  aerospace  fasteners
segment.

     Net interest expense decreased 29.0% in fiscal 1999 compared to fiscal 1998
and  decreased 10.4% in fiscal 1998 compared to fiscal 1997. The decreases  were
due  to  a  series  of transactions occurring in fiscal 1998 that  significantly
reduced our total debt. We expect interest expense to increase significantly  in
the  next  year  as  a  result of additional debt we  incurred  to  finance  the
acquisition of Kaynar Technologies.

      Investment income (loss), net, was $39.8 million, $(3.4) million, and $6.7
million  in  1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively. We recognized a large  gain  in
1999  from  the  liquidation of our position in AlliedSignal to raise  funds  to
acquire  Kaynar Technologies.  The $10.1 decrease in 1998 was due to recognition
of  unrealized  losses on the fair market adjustments of investments  previously
classified  as  trading securities in the fiscal 1998 periods,  while  recording
unrealized  gains from trading securities in the fiscal 1997 periods. Unrealized
holding  gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments are marked  to  market
value   through  stockholders'  equity  and  reported  separately  as  part   of
comprehensive income.

     Nonrecurring income of $124.0 million in 1998 resulted from the disposition
of  Banner Aerospace's hardware group. Nonrecurring income in 1997 included  the
$2.5 million gain from the sale of Scandinavian Bellyloading Company.

      We  recorded  an  income  tax  benefit of $13.2  million  in  fiscal  1999
representing  a  36.3%  effective  tax rate on pre-tax  losses  from  continuing
operations.  The  tax benefit approximates the statutory rate.  The  income  tax
provision  of $47.3 million reported in fiscal 1998 represents a 38.3% effective
tax  rate  on pre-tax earnings from continuing operations (excluding  equity  in
earnings  of  affiliates  and  minority interest) of  $123.4  million.  The  tax
provision  was  slightly  higher than the statutory  rate  because  of  goodwill
associated with the disposition of Banner Aerospace's hardware group,  which  is
not  deductible  for  tax purposes. Income taxes included  a  $7.3  million  tax
benefit  in  Fiscal  1997  on  a pre-tax loss of $5.0  million  from  continuing
operations.

      Equity  in earnings of affiliates decreased $0.8 million in 1999, compared
to 1998, and $0.4 million in 1998, compared to 1997. The decreases are primarily
attributable  to losses recorded by small start-up ventures. In  July  1999,  we
divested  our  31.9%  interest in Nacanco. This will likely  reduce  our  future
equity earnings.

     Minority interest decreased by $24.2 million in 1999 and increased by $22.8
million  in  1998  as a result of the $124.0 million nonrecurring  pre-tax  gain
recognized in 1998 from the disposition of Banner Aerospace's hardware group. On
April  8,  1999,  we  completed  a  merger with  Banner  Aerospace,  which  will
effectively reduce our future minority interest effects to immaterial amounts.

     Included in earnings (loss) from discontinued operations are the results of
Fairchild  Technologies  through January 1998, and our  equity  in  earnings  of
Shared  Technologies  Fairchild  prior to  the  merger  of  Shared  Technologies
Fairchild.  Losses  increased in fiscal 1998 as a  result  of  increased  losses
recorded  at  Fairchild  Technologies and lower equity earnings  contributed  by
Shared  Technologies  Fairchild.  (See Note  4  to  our  Consolidated  Financial
Statements).

      In  1998,  we  recorded a $96.0 million gain, net of tax, on  disposal  of
discontinued  operations, from the proceeds received from the merger  of  Shared
Technologies  Fairchild. This gain was partially offset in connection  with  the
adoption  of  a  formal  plan to enhance the opportunities  for  disposition  of
Fairchild Technologies. Under this plan we recorded an after-tax charge of $31.3
million and $36.2 million on disposal of discontinued operations in fiscal  1999
and  1998,  respectively. Included in the fiscal 1998 charge, was $28.2  million
(net  of an income tax benefit of $11.8 million) for the net losses of Fairchild
Technologies  through  June 30, 1998 and $8.0 million  (net  of  an  income  tax
benefit  of  $4.8  million)  for  the estimated operating  losses  of  Fairchild
Technologies.   The  fiscal  1999  after-tax  operating  loss   from   Fairchild
Technologies  exceeded the June 1998 estimate recorded for  expected  losses  by
$28.6  million (net of an income tax benefit of $8.1 million) through June 1999.
An  additional after-tax charge of $2.8 million (net of an income tax benefit of
$2.4  million) was recorded in fiscal 1999, based on a current estimate  of  the
remaining  losses in connection with the disposition of Fairchild  Technologies.
While  we  believe  that $2.8 million is a reasonable charge for  the  remaining
losses  to  be  incurred from Fairchild Technologies, there can be no  assurance
that this estimate is adequate.

     In fiscal 1999, we recognized an extraordinary loss of $4.2 million, net of
tax,  to  write-off the remaining deferred loan fees associated with  the  early
extinguishment  of  our  indebtedness pursuant  to  our  acquisition  of  Kaynar
Technologies (See Note 8). In fiscal 1998 we recognized an extraordinary loss of
$6.7  million,  net of tax, to write-off the remaining deferred  loan  fees  and
original   issue   discounts  associated  with  early  extinguishment   of   our
indebtedness  pursuant the repayment of all our public debt and  refinancing  of
credit facilities.

       Comprehensive   income  (loss)  includes  foreign  currency   translation
adjustments and unrealized holding changes in the fair market value of
available-for-sale  investment  securities. The fair market value  of
unrealized  holding securities  declined  by  $16.5 million in fiscal 1999 and
increased  by  $20.6 million  in  1998.  The 1999 changes reflect primarily
gains realized  from  the liquidation  of  investments,  primarily AlliedSignal
common  stock.  The  1998 increase  was  primarily the result of an increase in
the value of  AlliedSignal common  stock  which  we  received from the
disposition  of  Banner  Aerospace's hardware  group.  Foreign  currency
translation adjustments  decreased  by  $2.5 million and $5.1 million in fiscal
1999 and 1998, respectively.

Segment Results

Aerospace Fasteners Segment

      Sales  in  the aerospace fasteners segment increased by $55.5  million  to
$442.7  million,  up 14.3% in fiscal 1999, compared to fiscal  1998,  reflecting
growth  due  primarily  to  the acquisition of Kaynar Technologies.  New  orders
stabilized  in  1999 reflecting a plateau  during fiscal 1999 and  ultimately  a
slight  downturn in the commercial aerospace industry in the fourth  quarter  of
fiscal 1999. Backlog increased by $38 million in fiscal 1999 to $215 million  at
June 30, 1999, reflecting the acquisition of Kaynar Technologies. Excluding  $90
million of backlog contributed by Kaynar Technologies, our backlog decreased $52
million. Sales in the aerospace fasteners segment increased by $118.2 million to
$387.2  million,  up 43.9% in fiscal 1998, compared to fiscal  1997,  reflecting
growth  in  the  commercial  aerospace industry  combined  with  the  effect  of
acquisitions.  On  a  pro  forma  basis reflecting  acquisitions  in  comparable
periods,  sales  decreased 3.2% in fiscal 1999, compared  to  fiscal  1998,  and
increased 34.7% in fiscal 1998 compared to fiscal 1997

      Operating  income  increased by $6.2 million, or 19.1%,  in  fiscal  1999,
compared to fiscal 1998.  Included in our 1999 results are restructuring charges
of  $5.5 million for integration costs and severance from the integration of our
business with the Kaynar Technologies business. Excluding restructuring charges,
operating income increased $11.7 million in fiscal 1999 compared to fiscal 1998.
Excluding  restructuring charges, internal growth was 7.9%  in  fiscal  1999  at
operations  we  owned entirely during the period, compared to  the  fiscal  1998
results of these same operations on a pro forma basis. Operating income improved
by   $15.3  million,  or  88.2%,  in  fiscal  1998,  compared  to  fiscal  1997.
Acquisitions and marketing changes were contributing factors to the fiscal  1998
improvement.  We  anticipate that cost savings resulting from the  manufacturing
integration  of  the  Kaynar Technologies business with our  own  business  will
further  improve  operating  results in fiscal  2000.  On  a  pro  forma  basis,
operating  income decreased $13.6 million in fiscal 1999, as compared to  fiscal
1998 and increased $35.0 million in fiscal 1998, as compared to fiscal 1997.

      We  believe the demand for aerospace fasteners in fiscal 2000 will  remain
relatively  high in Europe, and expect sluggish demand in the United States.  We
anticipate that order rates may start increasing again during the ladder part of
fiscal 2000. In the meantime, we believe production volume on a worldwide  basis
will  remain at reasonable levels. We expect that our merger integration savings
and production efficiency improvements will allow us to generate an increase  in
margin.

Aerospace Distribution Segment

     Sales in our aerospace distribution segment decreased by $190.1 million, or
53.0%, in fiscal 1999, compared to the fiscal 1998 period, due primarily to  the
loss  of  revenues  as  a result of the disposition of the  hardware  group  and
Solair.  Sales decreased by $53.3 million, or 13.0% in fiscal 1998, compared  to
fiscal  1997. The exclusion of six months' revenues as a result of the  hardware
group  disposition was responsible primarily for the decrease in 1998, in  which
sales  otherwise  reflected a robust aerospace industry. On a  twelve-month  pro
forma  basis, sales decreased $8.3 million, or 5.6%, in 1999 compared  to  1998,
and increased $30.6 million, or 25.9%, in 1998 compared to 1997.

     Operating income decreased by $60.3 million, in fiscal 1999, as compared to
fiscal  1998. A charge of $41.4 million is included in the current year results,
in  connection  with  the  sale  of Solair and  the  potential  sale  of  Dallas
Aerospace. Excluding these charges, operating income would have decreased  $18.9
million  in  fiscal  1999, compared to the same period of the  prior  year,  due
primarily to the disposition of Solair and the hardware group. Operating  income
decreased  $10.6  million in fiscal 1998, compared to fiscal 1997,  due  to  the
hardware group disposition. On a twelve-month pro forma basis, operating  income
decreased $30.2 million in fiscal 1999, compared to fiscal 1998, and was  stable
in fiscal 1998 compared to fiscal 1997.

Corporate and Other

      The  Corporate and Other classification includes the Gas Springs  division
and  corporate activities. The group reported an 8.8% improvement  in  sales  in
fiscal  1999,  compared to fiscal 1998. An operating loss of  $44.9  million  in
fiscal  1999  was $37.3 million higher than the operating loss of  $7.6  million
reported  in  fiscal 1998. The current year includes $23.6 million  of  one-time
costs   associated  primarily  with  the  acquisition  of  Kaynar  Technologies,
restructuring  charges, and increased environmental, legal and travel  expenses.
Also,  the  prior  year  included other income of $8.6 million,  including  $4.4
million realized as a result of the condemnation of air rights over a portion of
the property we own and are developing in Farmingdale, New York.

      The  group  reported  a decrease in sales of $9.4  million,  in  1998,  as
compared  to  1997, due to the exclusion of Fairchild Scandinavian  Bellyloading
results  in fiscal 1998. The operating loss decreased by $7.2 million  in  1998,
compared  to  fiscal  1997, as a result of an increase in  other  income  and  a
decrease in legal expenses.
FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

      Total  capitalization  as of June 30, 1999 and  1998  amounted  to  $931.6
million and $789.6 million, respectively. The changes in capitalization included
an increase of $208.1 million in debt and a decrease of $66.1 million in equity.
The increase in debt was a result of the acquisition of Kaynar Technologies. The
decrease  in  equity was due primarily to a $22.1 million purchase  of  treasury
stock, the $59.0 million reported loss, and a $19.0 million change in cumulative
other comprehensive income, offset partially by the issuance of $22.2 million of
our Class A common stock resulting from the merger with Banner Aerospace.

      We  maintain a portfolio of investments classified primarily as available-
for-sale securities, which had a fair market value of $28.9 million at June  30,
1999. The market value of these investments decreased $16.5 million in 1999  due
primarily to the liquidation of investments in which investment income of  $39.8
million  was  realized. While there is risk associated with market  fluctuations
inherent  in  stock investments, and because our portfolio it  not  diversified,
large   swings  in  its  value  should  be  expected.  In  1999,  we  liquidated
substantially all of our AlliedSignal common stock, using the proceeds therefrom
in  connection with the acquisition of Kaynar Technologies. In fiscal  1999,  we
sold approximately 4.9 million shares of AlliedSignal common stock for aggregate
proceeds of approximately $219.9 million.

      We  have  an  88-acre  site in Farmingdale, New  York,  of  which  we  are
developing  as  a  shopping  center. We have invested  (cash  and  interest)  of
approximately $40.4 million, $17.3 million and $6.7 million into this project in
1999,  1998  and 1997, respectively. We estimate funding of approximately  $20.0
million is needed to complete this project.

      Net  cash  provided  by  operating activities for fiscal  1999  was  $23.3
million. The primary use of cash for operating activities in fiscal 1999 was  an
increase   in   accounts  payable,  accrued  liabilities  and  other   long-term
liabilities  of  $45.9 million, partially offset by our net  loss  and  non-cash
adjustments of $16.8 million. Net cash used for operating activities for  fiscal
1998  was  $85.2  million. The primary use of cash for operating  activities  in
fiscal 1998 was a $54.9 million increase in inventories.

      Net  cash used for investing activities for fiscal 1999 was $99.2  million
and  included $274.4 million used for acquisitions, partially offset  by  $189.4
million  received  from the liquidation of investments. Net cash  provided  from
investing  activities  for fiscal 1998 was $43.6 million and  included  proceeds
received  from  the  disposition of discontinued  operations,  including  Shared
Technologies Fairchild, of $168.0 million. This was slightly offset by cash used
for  the acquisition of subsidiaries and minority interests of $32.8 million and
$26.4 million, respectively.

     Net cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 1999 and 1998 was $81.2
million  and $74.1 million, respectively. Cash provided by financing  activities
in fiscal 1999 included the issuance of additional debt of $483.2 million offset
partially  by  $380.0 million of debt repayments and $22.1 million  of  treasury
stock  purchased.  We increased our debt in fiscal 1999,  as  a  result  of  the
acquistion  of  Kaynar  Technologies. Cash provided by financing  activities  in
fiscal  1998  included the issuance $53.8 million of stock from our 1998  equity
offering  and  $275.5  million from the issuance of  additional  debt  partially
offset  by  the  repayment of debt and the repurchase of  debentures  of  $258.0
million.

        Our   principal   cash  requirements  include  debt   service,   capital
expenditures, acquisitions, and payment of other liabilities. Other  liabilities
that  require  the  use  of cash include postretirement benefits,  environmental
investigation   and  remediation  obligations,  real  estate  development,   and
litigation  settlements and related costs.  We expect that cash  on  hand,  cash
generated  from  operations, and cash from borrowings and asset  sales  will  be
adequate to satisfy our cash requirements in fiscal 2000.

Discontinued Operations

      In  fiscal  1999,  1998,  and  1997, Fairchild  Technologies  had  pre-tax
operating  losses  of  approximately $49.5  million,  $48.7  million,  and  $3.6
million,  respectively. In addition, as a result of the downturn  in  the  Asian
markets, Fairchild Technologies experienced delivery deferrals, reduction in new
orders,  lower margins and increased price competition. In response, in February
1998,  we  adopted a formal plan for the disposition of Fairchild  Technologies.
The  plan  called  for  a  reduction in production  capacity  and  headcount  at
Fairchild  Technologies  and the pursuit of potential  vertical  and  horizontal
integration  with  peers  and competitors of the two divisions  that  constitute
Fairchild Technologies.

       During  the  fourth quarter of fiscal 1999, we liquidated  a  significant
portion  of  Fairchild  Technologies  mostly  consisting  of  our  semiconductor
equipment group through several transactions.  On April 14, 1999, we disposed of
our  photoresist  deep  ultraviolet track equipment machines,  spare  parts  and
testing  equipment to Apex Co., Ltd. in exchange for 1,250,000  shares  of  Apex
stock  valued at approximately $5.1 million. On June 15, 1999, we received  $7.9
million from Suess Microtec AG and the right to receive 350,000 shares of  Suess
Microtec stock (or approximately $3.5 million) by June 2000 in exchange for  all
of the fixed assets and inventory of Fairchild Technologies SEG GmbH and certain
intellectual  property.  On May 1, 1999, we sold Fairchild  CDI  for  a  nominal
amount. Subsequent to June 30, 1999, we received approximately $7.1 million from
Novellus  in  exchange  for  our  Low-K  dielectric  product  line  and  certain
intellectual  property.  We are also exploring several alternative  transactions
regarding the Fairchild Technologies optical disc equipment group business,  but
we have not made any definitive arrangement for its ultimate disposition.

Uncertainty of the Spin-Off

      In  order to focus our operations on the aerospace industry, we have  been
considering for some time distributing to our stockholders certain of our assets
via  distribution of all of the stock of a new entity, which may own  all  or  a
substantial part of our non-aerospace operations. We are still in the process of
deciding  the exact composition of the assets and liabilities to be included  in
the  spin-off,  but such assets would be likely to include certain  real  estate
interests. Our ability to consummate the spin-off, if we should choose to do so,
would  be contingent, among other things, on attaining certain milestones  under
our  credit  facility,  or waivers thereof, and all necessary  governmental  and
third party approvals. There is no assurance that we will be able to reach  such
milestones or obtain the necessary waivers from our lenders. In addition, we may
encounter  unexpected  delays in effecting the spin-off,  and  we  can  make  no
assurance  as  to  the timing thereof, or as to whether the spin-off  will  ever
occur.

     Depending on the ultimate structure and timing of the spin-off, it may be a
taxable  transaction  to our stockholders and could result  in  a  material  tax
liability  to  us as well as our stockholders. The amount of the tax  to  us  is
uncertain, and if the tax is material to us, we may elect not to consummate  the
spin-off.  Because  circumstances may change  and  provisions  of  the  Internal
Revenue  Code of 1986, as amended, may be further amended from time to time,  we
may,  depending on various factors, restructure or delay the timing of the spin-
off to minimize the tax consequences to us and our stockholders, or elect not to
consummate the spin-off.  Under the spin-off, it is expected that that the newly
created  entity  may  assume  certain of our liabilities,  including  contingent
liabilities, and may indemnify us for such liabilities. In the event this entity
is  unable  to satisfy the liabilities, which it will assume in connection  with
the spin-off, we may have to satisfy such liabilities.

Year 2000

      As  the end of the century nears, there is a widespread concern that  many
existing data processing devices that use only the last two digits to refer to a
year  will  not  properly recognize a year that begins with  the  digits  ''20''
instead of ''19.'' If not properly modified, these data processing devices could
fail,  create erroneous results, or cause unanticipated systems failures,  among
other  problems. In response, we have developed a worldwide Year 2000  readiness
plan that is divided into a number of interrelated and overlapping phases. These
phases   include   corporate  awareness  and  planning,  readiness   assessment,
evaluation  and  prioritization  of solutions,  implementation  of  remediation,
validation testing, and contingency planning. Each is discussed below.

     Awareness.  In the corporate awareness and planning phase, we formed a Year
2000  project group under the direction of our Chief Financial Officer and Chief
Information Officer, identified and designated key personnel within the  company
to  coordinate  our  Year  2000 efforts, and retained the  services  of  outside
technical  review  and modification consultants. The project group  prepared  an
overall  schedule and working budget for our Year 2000 plan. We  have  completed
this  phase  of  our  Year  2000 plan. We evaluate  our  information  technology
applications  regularly, and based on such evaluation revise  the  schedule  and
budget  to  reflect the progress of our Year 2000 readiness efforts.  The  Chief
Financial  Officer  and  Chief  Information  Officer  regularly  report  to  our
management and to our audit committee on the status of the Year 2000 project.

      Assessment.   In the readiness assessment phase, we, in coordination  with
our   technical  review  consultants,  have  been  evaluating  our   Year   2000
preparedness  in  a  number  of  areas,  including  our  information  technology
infrastructure,  external resources, physical plant and  production  facilities,
equipment and machinery, products and inventory. We have completed this phase of
our  Year  2000  Plan.  Pending the completion of  all  validation  testing,  we
continue to review on a regular basis all aspects of our Year 2000 preparedness.
In this respect, we have designated officers at each of our business segments to
provide  regular assessment updates to our Chief Information Officer and outside
consultants,  who  have assimilated a range of alternative methods  to  complete
each phase of our Year 2000 plan and are reporting regularly their findings  and
conclusions to our management.

      Evaluation.  In the evaluation and prioritization of solutions  phase,  we
seek  to develop potential solutions to the Year 2000 issues identified  in  our
readiness  assessment  phase, consider those solutions in  light  of  our  other
information   technology  and  business  priorities,  prioritize   the   various
remediation tasks, and develop an implementation schedule. This phase is largely
complete.  However, we will continue to evaluate our Year 2000 readiness  status
through  November  15, 1999, when all validation testing is  anticipated  to  be
complete.  However, identified problems will be corrected as soon as practicable
after  identification.  To date, we have not identified  any  major  information
technology system or non-information technology system that must be replaced  in
its  entirety for Year 2000 reasons. We have also determined that  most  of  the
Year   2000   issues  identified  in  the  assessment  phase  can  be  addressed
satisfactorily  through system modifications, component  upgrades  and  software
patches.  Thus,  we do not presently anticipate incurring any  material  systems
replacement costs relating to the Year 2000 issues.

      Implementation.  In the implementation of remediation phase, we, with  the
assistance  of  our  technical  review and modification  consultants,  began  to
implement  the  proposed  solutions  to any identified  Year  2000  issues.  The
solutions  include  equipment  and  component  upgrades,  systems  and  software
patches,   reprogramming  and  resetting  machines,  and  other   modifications.
Substantially  all  of the material systems within the aerospace  fasteners  and
aerospace  distribution segments of our business are currently Year 2000  ready.
However, we are continuing to evaluate and implement Year 2000 modifications  to
embedded data processing technology in certain manufacturing equipment  used  in
our aerospace fasteners segment.

      Testing.  In the validation testing phase, we seek to evaluate and confirm
the  results of our Year 2000 remediation efforts. In conducting our  validation
testing,  we  are  using,  among  other things,  proprietary  testing  protocols
developed  internally and by our technical review and modification  consultants,
as well as testing tools such as Greenwich Mean Time's Check 2000 and SEMATECH's
Year  2000 Readiness Testing Scenarios Version 2.0. The Greenwich tools identify
potential  Year  2000-related  software and  data  problems,  and  the  SEMATECH
protocols validate the ability of data processing systems to rollover  and  hold
transition  dates.  Testing  for both the aerospace fasteners  segment  and  the
aerospace distribution segment is approximately 90 percent complete.   To  date,
the  results of our validation testing have not revealed any new and significant
Year  2000  issues or any ineffective remediation. We have completed testing  of
our most critical information technology and related systems.

     Contingency Planning.  In the contingency planning phase, we, together with
our  technical review consultants, are assessing the Year 2000 readiness of  our
key  suppliers,  distributors,  customers and  service  providers.  Toward  that
objective,  we  have sent letters, questionnaires and surveys  to  our  business
partners,  inquiring about their Year 2000 readiness arrangements.  The  average
response  rate has been approximately 55 percent, including our most significant
business  partners  have  responded to our inquiries. In  this  phase,  we  have
evaluated  the risks that our failure or the failure of others to be  Year  2000
ready  would cause a material disruption to, or have a material effect  on,  our
financial condition, business or operations. So far, we have identified only our
aerospace fasteners MRP system as being both mission critical and potentially at
risk.  In  mitigation  of this concern, we have engaged a  consultant  to  test,
evaluate  and  implement the manufacturer-designed Year  2000  patches  for  the
system.   We are also developing and evaluating contingency plans to  deal  with
events  arising from significant Year 2000 issues outside of our infrastructure.
In   this  regard,  we  are  considering  the  advisability  of  augmenting  our
inventories of certain raw materials and finished products, securing  additional
sources for certain supplies and services, arranging for back-up utilities,  and
exploring alternate distribution and sales channels, among other things.

     The following chart summarizes our progress, by phase and business segment,
in completing the Year 2000 plan:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                     Percentage of Year 2000 Plan Completed
                         (By Phase and Business Segment)

                                    Quarter Ended
                 Sept.Dec.  Mar. June  Sept. Dec. Mar.   June  Work
                  28,  28,   29,  30,   27,   27,  28,   30,  Remaining
                 1997 1997  1998 1998   1998 1998 1999   1999
<S>              <C>   <C>   <C>   <C>   <C>    <C>   <C>   <C>    <C>
Awareness:
     Aerospace    50% 100%  100% 100%   100% 100% 100%   100%   0%
Fasteners
     Aerospace    100  100   100  100   100   100  100   100    0
Distribution
Assessment:
     Aerospace         25    50   75    100   100  100   100    0
Fasteners
     Aerospace          0     0    0     50   100  100   100    0
Distribution
Evaluation:
     Aerospace                           0    70   100   100    0
Fasteners
     Aerospace                           20   100  100   100    0
Distribution
Implementation:
     Aerospace                                50   60     90    10
Fasteners
     Aerospace                                40   75     95    5
Distribution
Testing:
     Aerospace                                20   35     90    10
Fasteners
     Aerospace                               30-40 70     90    10
Distribution
Contingency
Planning:
     Aerospace                           0    20   35     90    10
Fasteners
     Aerospace                           25   50   65     90    10
Distribution
</TABLE>

      The  chart  below summarizes costs we incurred through June 30,  1999,  by
segment,  to  address  Year  2000  issues, and the  total  costs  we  reasonably
anticipate  incurring during the remainder of 1999 relating  to  the  Year  2000
issue.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(In thousands)                Year 2000 Costs Anticipated Year 2000
                                   as of              Costs
                               June 30, 1999   During the Next Six
                                                      Months
<S>                          <C>               <C>
Aerospace Fasteners                $685                $400
Aerospace Distribution             $600                $50
</TABLE>

      We  have  funded  the costs of our Year 2000 plan from  general  operating
funds,  and  all such costs have been deducted from income. To date,  the  costs
associated  with our Year 2000 efforts have not had a material  effect  on,  and
have caused no delays with respect to, our other information technology programs
or projects.

      We anticipate that we will complete our Year 2000 preparations by November
15, 1999. Although our Year2000 implementation, testing and contingency planning
phases  are not yet complete, we do not currently believe that Year 2000  issues
will  materially  affect  our  business,  results  of  operations  or  financial
condition. However, in some international markets in which we conduct  business,
the  level of awareness and remediation efforts by third parties, utilities  and
infrastructure  managers relating to the Year 2000 issue may  be  less  advanced
than  in  the United States, which could, despite our efforts, have  an  adverse
effect on us. If our mission critical systems are not Year 2000 ready, we  could
be  subject  to  significant business interruptions,  and  could  be  liable  to
customers  and other third parties for breach of contract, breach  of  warranty,
misrepresentation, unlawful trade practices and other claims.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

      In  June 1998, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133 "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS 133
establishes  a  new model for accounting for derivatives and hedging  activities
and  supersedes  and  amends  a  number of existing  accounting  standards.   It
requires  that  all derivatives be recognized as assets and liabilities  on  the
balance sheet and measured at fair value.  The corresponding derivative gains or
losses  are  reported  based  on the hedge relationship  that  exists,  if  any.
Changes  in the fair value of derivative instruments that are not designated  as
hedges  or  that  do not meet the hedge accounting criteria  in  SFAS  133,  are
required  to  be reported in earnings.  Most of the general qualifying  criteria
for  hedge accounting under SFAS 133 were derived from, and are similar to,  the
existing  qualifying  criteria in SFAS 80 "Accounting  for  Futures  Contracts."
SFAS 133 describes three primary types of hedge relationships: fair value hedge,
cash  flow  hedge,  and foreign currency hedge. In June 1999,  the  FASB  issued
Statement  of  Financial  Accounting Standards No. 137  to  defer  the  required
effective  date of implementing SFAS 133 from fiscal years beginning after  June
15,  1999 to fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. We will adopt SFAS  133
in fiscal 2001 and we are currently evaluating the financial statement impact.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

      The  table  below  provides  information about  our  derivative  financial
instruments  and other financial instruments that are sensitive  to  changes  in
interest rates, which include interest rate swaps. For interest rate swaps,  the
table  presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected
(contractual)  maturity  dates.  Notional amounts  are  used  to  calculate  the
contractual  payments  to  be  exchanged under the  contract.  Weighted  average
variable  rates  are based on implied forward rates in the yield  curve  at  the
reporting date.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                 Expected Maturity Date
                         2000   2001    2002   2003     2004  Thereafter
<S>                     <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>      <C>
Interest Rate Swaps:
   Variable to fixed    20,000 60,000     -      -       -    100,000
      Average cap rate   7.25%  6.81%     -      -       -     6.49%
      Average floor      5.84%  5.99%     -      -       -     6.24%
rate
      Weighted average   5.71%  5.74%     -      -       -     6.12%
rate
      Fair market value  (44)   (99)      -      -       -    (3,709)
</TABLE>



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

      The  following  consolidated financial statements of the Company  and  the
report of our independent public accountants with respect thereto, are set forth
below.


                                                                      Page

Report of Independent Public Accountants                               29

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 1999 and 1998               30

Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each of the Three
  Years Ended June 30, 1999, 1998, and 1997                            32

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for each
  of the Three Years Ended June 30, 1999, 1998, and 1997               34

Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows for each of the Three
  Years Ended June 30, 1999, 1998, and 1997                            35

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                             36

Supplementary  information regarding "Quarterly Financial Data  (Unaudited)"  is
set forth under Item 8 in Note 21 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                    Report of Independent Public Accountants

To The Fairchild Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries:

      We  have  audited  the  accompanying consolidated balance  sheets  of  The
Fairchild Corporation (a Delaware corporation) and consolidated subsidiaries  as
of  June 30, 1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated statements of earnings,
stockholders'  equity and cash flows for each of the three years in  the  period
ended  June  30,  1999,  1998  and 1997.  These  financial  statements  are  the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We did not audit  the
financial statements of Nacanco Paketleme (see Note 7), the investment in  which
is reflected in the accompanying financial statements using the equity method of
accounting.  The  investment in Nacanco Paketleme represents  1  percent  and  2
percent  of  total  assets as of June 30, 1999 and 1998, respectively,  and  the
equity  in its net income represents 11 percent, 9 percent, and  257 percent  of
earnings  from  continuing  operations as of June  30,  1999,  1998,  and  1997,
respectively. The statements of Nacanco Paketleme were audited by other auditors
whose report has been furnished to us and our opinion, insofar as it relates  to
the  amounts  included for Nacanco Paketleme, is based on the  report  of  other
auditors.

      We  conducted  our  audits in accordance with generally accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform an audit to  obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the  amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing  the  accounting  principles used and significant  estimates  made  by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In  our opinion, based on our audits and the report of other auditors, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the   financial   position  of  The  Fairchild  Corporation   and   consolidated
subsidiaries  as of June 30, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their  operations
and  their cash flows for each of the three years ended June 30, 1999, 1998  and
1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.


                    Arthur Andersen LLP


Vienna, VA
September 15, 1999

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
             THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                 (In thousands)


                                             June 30, June 30,
                   ASSETS                      1999     1998

<S>                                          <C>       <C>
CURRENT ASSETS:
Cash and cash equivalents, $15,752 and $746
restricted                                   $ 54,860  $ 49,601
Short-term investments                         13,094     3,962
Accounts receivable-trade, less allowances    130,121   120,284
of $6,442 and $5,655
Inventories:
   Finished goods                             137,807   187,205
   Work-in-process                             38,316    20,642
   Raw materials                               14,116     9,635
                                              190,239   217,482
Net current assets of discontinued
operations                                          -    11,613
Prepaid expenses and other current assets      73,926    53,081
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                          462,240   456,023

Property, plant and equipment, net of
accumulated
  depreciation of $103,556 and $82,968        184,065   118,963
Net assets held for sale                       21,245    23,789
Net noncurrent assets of discontinued                     8,541
operations                                          -
Cost in excess of net assets acquired
(Goodwill), less
  accumulated amortization of $40,307 and     447,722   168,307
$42,079
Investments and advances, affiliated           31,791    27,568
companies
Prepaid pension assets                         63,958    61,643
Deferred loan costs                            13,077     6,362
Real estate investment                         83,791    43,440
Long-term investments                          15,844   235,435
Other assets                                    5,053     7,188
TOTAL ASSETS                               $1,328,786 $1,157,259








The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part
of these statements.
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

             THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                 (In thousands)

                                             June 30, June 30,
    LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY       1999     1998

<S>                                          <C>       <C>
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
Bank notes payable and current maturities of
long-term debt                               $ 28,860 $  20,665
Accounts payable                               72,271    53,859
Accrued liabilities:
    Salaries, wages and commissions            43,095    23,613
    Employee benefit plan costs                 5,204     1,463
    Insurance                                  14,216    12,575
    Interest                                    7,637     2,303
    Other accrued liabilities                  50,984    52,789
                                              121,136    92,743
Net current liabilities of discontinued
operations                                     10,999         -
Income taxes                                             28,311
                                                    -
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                     233,266   195,578

LONG-TERM LIABILITES:
Long-term debt, less current maturities       495,283   295,402
Other long-term liabilities                    25,904    23,767
Retiree health care liabilities                44,813    42,103
Noncurrent income taxes                       121,961    95,176
Minority interest in subsidiaries                  59    31,674
TOTAL LIABILITIES                             921,286   683,700

STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY:
Class A common stock, 10 cents par value;
authorized 40,000,000
  shares, 29,754,448 (26,678,561 in 1998)
shares issued and
  22,258,580 (20,428,591 in 1998) shares        2,975     2,667
outstanding
Class B common stock, 10 cents par value;
authorized 20,000,000
  shares, 2,621,652 (2,624,716 in 1998)           262       263
shares issued and outstanding
Paid-in capital                               229,038   195,112
Retained earnings                             252,030   311,039
Cumulative other comprehensive income         (2,703)    16,386
Treasury Stock, at cost, 7,495,868
(6,249,970 in 1998) shares
  of Class A common stock                    (74,102)  (51,908)
TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY                    407,500   473,559
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                           $1,328,786 $1,157,259






The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part
of these statements.
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
             THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                      (In thousands, except per share data)

                                        For the Years Ended June 30,
                                              1999    1998    1997
<S>                                          <C>     <C>      <C>
REVENUE:
   Net sales                                $617,322 $741,176 $680,763
   Other income, net                           3,899    6,508       28

                                             621,221  747,684  680,791
 COSTS AND EXPENSES:
Cost of goods sold, including inventory
impairment adjustments of $41,465 in 1999    504,893  554,670  499,419
relating to the disposition of Solair and
the potential disposition of Dallas
Aerospace
   Selling, general & administrative         149,348  142,102  143,059
   Amortization of goodwill                    6,517    5,469    4,814
   Restructuring                               6,374        -        -
                                             667,132  702,241  647,292
 OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)                     (45,911)  45,443   33,499
 Interest expense                             33,162   46,007   52,376
 Interest income                              (2,816)  (3,292)  (4,695)
 Net interest expense                         30,346   42,715   47,681
 Investment income (loss), net                39,800   (3,362)   6,651
 Non-recurring income                              -  124,028    2,528
 Earnings (loss) from continuing operations
before taxes                                 (36,457) 123,394   (5,003)
 Income tax (provision) benefit               13,245  (47,274)   7,344
 Equity in earnings of affiliates, net         1,795    2,571    2,989
 Minority interest, net                       (2,090) (26,292)  (3,514)
 Earnings (loss) from continuing operations  (23,507)  52,399    1,816
 Loss from discontinued operations, net            -   (4,296)    (485)
 Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued
operations, net                              (31,349)  59,717       -
 Earnings (loss) before extraordinary items  (54,856) 107,820   1,331
 Extraordinary items, net                     (4,153) (6,730)       -
NET EARNINGS (LOSS)                         $(59,009) $101,090 $ 1,331
 Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
 Foreign currency translation adjustments     (2,545) (5,140)  (1,514)
 Unrealized holding gains (losses) on
secruities arising during the period         (16,544) 20,633       74
 Other comprehensive income (loss)           (19,089) 15,493   (1,440)
 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)                $(78,098)$116,583  $ (109)





The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part
of these statements.
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

             THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                      (In thousands, except per share data)


                                          For the Years Ended June 30,
                                              1999    1998   1997
<S>                                          <C>     <C>     <C>
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE:
Earnings (loss) from continuing operations         $      $       $
                                            $ (1.03) $ 2.78  $ 0.11
Loss from discontinued operations, net
                                                   -  (0.23)  (0.03)
Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued
operations, net                               (1.38)   3.17       -
Extraordinary items, net
                                              (0.18)  (0.36)      -
NET EARNINGS (LOSS)
                                            $ (2.59) $ 5.36  $ 0.08
 Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
 Foreign currency translation adjustments
                                            $ (0.11) $(0.27) $ (0.09)
 Unrealized holding gains (losses) on
securities arising during the period          (0.73)   1.10       -
 Other comprehensive income
                                              (0.84)   0.83   (0.09)
 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
                                             $(3.43) $ 6.19   $(0.01)

DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE:
Earnings (loss) from continuing operations
                                            $ (1.03) $ 2.66   $ 0.11
Loss from discontinued operations, net
                                                   -  (0.22)   (0.03)
Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued
operations, net                               (1.38)   3.04       -
Extraordinary items, net
                                              (0.18)  (0.34)      -
NET EARNINGS (LOSS)
                                            $ (2.59) $ 5.14   $  0.08
 Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
 Foreign currency translation adjustments
                                            $ (0.11) $(0.26)  $ (0.09)
 Unrealized holding gains (losses) on
securities arising during the period          (0.73)   1.05       -
 Other comprehensive income
                                              (0.84)   0.79     (0.09)
 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)                 $(3.43) $ 5.93    $(0.01)
Weighted average shares outstanding:
  Basic                                       22,766 18,834    16,539
  Diluted                                     22,766 19,669    17,321









The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part
of these statements.
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

             THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (In thousands)

                        Class Class
                          A     B                              Cumulative
                        Common Common Paid                     Other
                                        in   Retained Treasury Comprehensive
                        Stock  Stock Capital Earnings Stock    Income  Total
<S>                        <C>   <C>    <C>    <C>    <C>    <C>       <C>
Balance, July 1, 1996   $2,000  $263 $69,366 $208,618 $(51,719) $2,333 $230,861
 Net earnings                -     -       -    1,331        -       -    1,331
 Foreign currency
translation adjustments      -     -       -        -        -  (1,514)  (1,514)
 Fair market value of
stock warrants issued        -     -     546        -        -       -      546
 Proceeds received from
options exercised (234,935
shares)                     23    -    1,103        -        -       -    1,126
 Net unrealized holding
gain on available-for-sale
securities                   -    -        -        -        -      74       74
 Balance, June 30, 1997  2,023  263   71,015  209,949  (51,719)    893  232,424
 Net earnings                -    -        -  101,090        -       -  101,090
 Foreign currency
translation adjustments      -    -        -        -        -  (5,140)  (5,140)
 Compensation expense from
 adjusted terms to warrants and
options                      -    -    5,655        -        -       -    5,655
 Stock issued for Special-
T acquisition              108    -   21,939        -        -       -   22,047
 Stock issued for Exchange
Offer                      221    -   42,588        -        -       -   42,809
 Equity Offering
                           300    -   53,268        -        -       -   53,568
 Proceeds received from
stock options
    exercised (141,259
shares)                     10    -      652        -     (189)      -      473
 Cashless exercise of
warrants (47,283 shares)     5    -       (5)       -        -       -        -
 Net unrealized holding
gain on available-for-sale
securities                   -    -        -        -        -  20,633   20,633
 Balance, June 30, 1998  2,667  263  195,112  311,039  (51,908) 16,386  473,559
Net Loss                     -    -        -  (59,009)       -       -  (59,009)
 Foreign currency
translation adjustments      -    -        -        -        -  (2,545)  (2,545)
 Stock issued for Special-
T acquistion                   1  -      132        -        -       -      133
 Stock issued for Banner
Aerospace merger             298  -   33,093        -        -       -   33,391
 Proceeds received from
stock options
   exercised (75,383
shares)                        7  -      266        -      (92)      -      181
 Restricted stock plan
issuance (14,969 shares)       1  -       (1)       -      -                 -
 Purchase of treasury
shares (1,239,750 shares)      -  -        -        -   (22,102)     - (22,102)
 Exchange of Class B for
Class A
   common stock (3,064         1 (1)       -        -         -      -       -
shares)
 Compensation expense from
stock options                  -   -     436        -         -      -     436
 Net unrealized holding
loss on
   available-for-sale
securities                     -   -       -        -         -(16,544)(16,544)
 Balance, June 30, 1999    2,975 262 229,038  252,030   (74,102)(2,703)407,500

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part
of these statements.
</TABLE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
             THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (In thousands)
                                              For the Years Ended June 30,
                                                   1999    1998    1997
<S>                                              <C>      <C>      <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
       Net earnings (loss)                     $ (59,009)101,090   1,331
       Depreciation and amortization              25,657  20,873  20,815
       Deferred loan fee amortization              1,100   2,406   2,847
       Accretion of discount on long-term
liabilities                                        5,270   3,766   4,963
        Net gain on the disposition of
subsidiaries                                           - (124,041)     -
        Net gain on the sale of discontinued
operations                                             - (132,787)     -
        Extraordinary items, net of cash
payments                                           6,389  10,347       -
        Provision for restructuring (excluding
cash payments of $2,600 in 1999)                   3,774       -       -
        (Gain) loss on sale of property, plant,
and equipment                                        400     246    (72)
        (Undistributed) distributed earnings of
affiliates, net                                    3,433   1,725 (1,055)
        Minority interest                          2,090  26,292   3,514
        Change in trading securities              (1,254)  9,275  (5,733)
        Change in receivables                      8,632 (12,846)(48,693)
        Change in inventories                     14,727 (54,857)(36,868)
        Change in other current assets           (22,365)(26,643)(14,088)
        Change in other non-current assets       (26,741)    700  (9,828)
        Change in accounts payable, accrued
liabilities and other long-term liabilities       45,906  77,434   6,747
        Non-cash charges and working capital
changes of discontinued operations                15,259  11,789 (17,201)
        Net cash provided by (used for)
operating activities                              23,268 (85,231)(93,321)
 Cash flows from investing activities:
        Proceeds received from (used for)
investment securities, net                       189,379  (7,287)(12,951)
        Purchase of property, plant and
equipment                                        (30,142)(36,029)(15,014)
        Proceeds from sale of plant, property
and equipment                                        844     336     213
        Equity investment in affiliates           (7,678) (4,343) (1,749)
        Minority interest in subsidiaries              - (26,383) (1,610)
        Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash
acquired                                        (274,427)(32,795)(55,916)
        Net proceeds received from sale of
subsidiary                                        60,396       -       -
        Net proceeds received from the sale of
discontinued operations                                - 167,987 173,719
        Changes in real estate investment        (40,351)(17,262) (6,737)
        Changes in net assets held for sale        3,134   2,140     385
        Investing activities of discontinued
operations                                          (312) (2,750) (7,102)
        Net cash provided by (used for)
investing activities                             (99,157) 43,614  73,238
 Cash flows from financing activities:
        Proceeds from issuance of debt           483,222 275,523 154,294
        Debt repayments and repurchase of
debentures, net                                (380,083)(258,014)(155,600)
        Issuance of Class A common stock             181  54,041   1,126
       Purchase of treasury stock                (22,102)      -       -
        Financing activities of discontinued
operations                                             -   2,538  (1,275)
        Net cash provided by (used for)
financing activities                              81,218  74,088  (1,455)
    Effect of exchange rate changes on cash          (70) (2,290)  1,309
    Net change in cash and cash equivalents        5,259  30,181 (20,229)
    Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the
year                                              49,601  19,420  39,649
    Cash and cash equivalents, end of the year   $54,860 $49,601 $19,420

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part
of these statements.
</TABLE>

             THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                      (In thousands, except per share data)

 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

      General:  All  references  in  the notes  to  the  consolidated  financial
statements   to   the  terms  "we,"  "our,"  "us,"  the  "Company"   and
"Fairchild" refer to The Fairchild Corporation and its subsidiaries.

     Corporate Structure:  The Fairchild Corporation was incorporated in October
1969,  under  the laws of the State of Delaware.  Effective April  8,  1999,  we
became  the sole owner of Banner Aerospace, Inc.  RHI Holdings, Inc. is a direct
subsidiary  of  us.   RHI is the owner of 100% of Fairchild Holding  Corp.   Our
principal  operations are conducted through Fairchild Holding Corp.  and  Banner
Aerospace.   During  the periods covered by these financial statements  we  held
significant  equity  interests  in  Nacanco Paketleme  and  Shared  Technologies
Fairchild  Inc.   In February 1998, we adopted a formal plan to dispose  of  our
interest  in  our  technologies products segment operating  under  the  name  of
Fairchild  Technologies.  Accordingly,  our  financial  statements  present  the
results  of  our  former  communications services segment,  Shared  Technologies
Fairchild and Fairchild Technologies as discontinued operations.

     Fiscal  Year:   Our  fiscal year  ends June 30. All  references  herein  to
"1999",  "1998", and "1997" mean the fiscal years ended June 30, 1999, 1998  and
1997, respectively.

      Consolidation  Policy: The accompanying consolidated financial  statements
are  prepared  in accordance with generally accepted accounting  principles  and
include  our accounts and all of the accounts of our wholly-owned and  majority-
owned subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have
been  eliminated in consolidation.  Investments in companies in which  ownership
interest  range from 20 to 50 percent are accounted for using the equity  method
(see Note 7).

      Revenue  Recognition: Sales and related costs are recognized upon shipment
of product and performance of services. Sales and related cost of sales on long-
term  contracts are recognized as products are delivered and services performed,
determined by the percentage of completion method. Lease and rental revenue  are
recognized as earned.

      Cash Equivalents/Statements of Cash Flows:  For purposes of the Statements
of  Cash Flows, we consider all highly liquid investments with original maturity
dates  of three months or less as cash equivalents. Total net cash disbursements
(receipts) made by us for income taxes and interest were as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                              1999     1998     1997
<S>                         <C>      <C>      <C>
 Interest                    $29,200  $52,737 $48,567
 Income Taxes                (21,304)    (987) (1,926)
</TABLE>

      Restricted  Cash:  On June 30, 1999 and 1998, we had  restricted  cash  of
$15,752  and  $746, respectively, all of which is maintained as  collateral  for
certain debt facilities.  Cash investments are in short-term treasury bills  and
certificates of deposit.

      Investments: Management determines the appropriate classification  of  our
investments  at  the time of acquisition and reevaluates such  determination  at
each  balance  sheet date.  Trading securities are carried at fair  value,  with
unrealized  holding  gains and losses included in earnings.   Available-for-sale
securities are carried at fair value, with unrealized holding gains and  losses,
net   of  tax,  reported  as  a  separate  component  of  stockholders'  equity.
Investments  in  equity securities and limited partnerships  that  do  not  have
readily determinable fair values are stated at cost and are categorized as other
investments.  Realized  gains  and  losses are  determined  using  the  specific
identification  method  based on the trade date of a transaction.   Interest  on
corporate  obligations, as well as dividends on preferred stock, are accrued  at
the balance sheet date.

     Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is
determined  using  the  last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method  at  several  of  our
domestic  aerospace  fastener manufacturing operations and using  the  first-in,
first-out ("FIFO") method elsewhere.  If the FIFO inventory valuation method had
been  used  exclusively,  inventories would have been approximately  $3,018  and
$8,706  higher  at  June  30,  1999  and 1998, respectively.   Inventories  from
continuing operations are valued as follows
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                    June 30,   June 30,
                                      1999     1998
<S>                                <C>        <C>
 First-in, first-out (FIFO)         $162,797 $177,426
 Last-in, First-out (LIFO)            27,442   40,056
 Total inventories                  $190,239 $217,482
</TABLE>

      Properties and Depreciation: The cost of property, plant and equipment  is
depreciated  over  estimated useful lives of the related  assets.  The  cost  of
leasehold  improvements is depreciated over the lesser  of  the  length  of  the
related leases or the estimated useful lives of the assets.  In fiscal 1999,  we
changed  the estimated useful life for depreciating our machinery and  equipment
from 8 to 10 years. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method  for
financial  reporting purposes and accelerated depreciation methods  for  Federal
income  tax  purposes.  No interest costs were capitalized in any of  the  years
presented.  Property, plant and equipment consisted of the following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                    June 30, June 30,
                                      1999     1998
<S>                                 <C>       <C>
Land                                $ 13,325 $ 11,694
Building and improvements             56,790   47,579
Machinery and equipment              173,791  113,669
Transportation vehicles                1,062      676
Furniture and fixtures                22,439   16,362
Construction in progress              20,214   11,951
Property, plant and equipment at     287,621  201,931
cost
Less: Accumulated depreciation       103,556   82,968
Net property, plant and equipment   $184,065 $118,963
</TABLE>

     Amortization of Goodwill: Goodwill, which represents the excess of the cost
of  purchased  businesses over the fair value of their net assets  at  dates  of
acquisition, is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 40 years.

      Deferred  Loan  Costs: Deferred loan costs associated  with  various  debt
issues  are  being amortized over the terms of the related debt,  based  on  the
amount  of  outstanding debt, using the effective interest method.  Amortization
expense  for  these  loan costs for 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $1,100,  $2,406  and
$2,847, respectively.

     Impairment of Long-Lived Assets: We review our long-lived assets, including
property,  plant  and  equipment, identifiable  intangibles  and  goodwill,  for
impairment  whenever  events  or  changes in  circumstances  indicate  that  the
carrying  amount  of  the  assets may not be fully  recoverable.   To  determine
recoverability of our long-lived assets we evaluate the probability that  future
undiscounted net cash flows will be less than the carrying amount of our assets.
Impairment  is measured based on the difference between the carrying  amount  of
our assets and their fair value.

       Foreign  Currency Translation: For foreign subsidiaries whose  functional
currency is the local foreign currency, balance sheet accounts are translated at
exchange rates in effect at the end of the period, and income statement accounts
are  translated  at  average  exchange rates  for  the  period.   The  resulting
translation   gains  and  losses  are  included  as  a  separate  component   of
stockholders'  equity.   Foreign  currency  transaction  gains  and  losses  are
included in other income and were insignificant in fiscal 1999, 1998 and 1997.

      Research  and  Development:  Company-sponsored  research  and  development
expenditures are expensed as incurred.

      Capitalization of interest and taxes: We capitalize interest  expense  and
property  taxes  relating  to certain real estate property  being  developed  in
Farmingdale, New York. Interest of $4,671, $3,078 and $2,356 was capitalized  in
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

      Nonrecurring Income: Nonrecurring income of $124,028 in 1998 resulted from
the disposition of our aerospace distribution segment's hardware group (See Note
2).  Nonrecurring income of $2,528 in 1997 resulted from the gain recorded  from
the sale of Fairchild Scandinavian Bellyloading Company, (See Note 2).

      Stock-Based  Compensation:  In fiscal 1997, we  implemented  Statement  of
Financial   Accounting   Standards   No.  123,   "Accounting   for   Stock-Based
Compensation".  SFAS 123 establishes financial accounting standards  for  stock-
based employee compensation plans and for transactions in which an entity issues
equity  instruments  to  acquire  goods  or  services  from  non-employees.   As
permitted by SFAS 123, we will continue to use the intrinsic value based  method
of  accounting  prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25, for our  stock-based  employee
compensation  plans.  Fair market disclosures required by SFAS 123 are  included
in Note 12.

      Fair  Value of Financial Instruments: The carrying amount reported in  the
balance  sheet  approximates the fair value for our cash and  cash  equivalents,
investments,  short-term borrowings, current maturities of long-term  debt,  and
all other variable rate debt (including borrowings under our credit agreements).
The  fair  value  for  our other fixed rate long-term debt  is  estimated  using
discounted cash flow analyses, based on our current incremental borrowing  rates
for  similar  types of borrowing arrangements.  Fair values of our  off-balance-
sheet  instruments (hedging agreements, letters of credit, commitments to extend
credit, and lease guarantees) are based on fees currently charged to enter  into
similar  agreements, taking into account the remaining terms of  the  agreements
and  the  counter parties' credit standing. These instruments are  described  in
Note 8.

      Use  of  Estimates:  The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with  generally accepted accounting principles requires our management  to  make
estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect the reported  amounts  of  assets  and
liabilities, concerning the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and
the  reported  amounts  of revenues and expenses during  the  reporting  period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     Reclassifications: Certain amounts in our prior years' financial statements
have been reclassified to conform to the 1999 presentation.

      Recently  Issued Accounting Pronouncements: In June 1998, the FASB  issued
Statement  of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities." SFAS 133 establishes  a  new  model  for
accounting  for derivatives and hedging activities and supersedes and  amends  a
number  of  existing accounting standards.  It requires that all derivatives  be
recognized as assets and liabilities on the balance sheet and measured  at  fair
value.   The corresponding derivative gains or losses are reported based on  the
hedge relationship that exists, if any.  Changes in the fair value of derivative
instruments  that  are not designated as hedges or that do not  meet  the  hedge
accounting criteria in SFAS 133, are required to be reported in earnings.   Most
of  the  general qualifying criteria for hedge accounting under  SFAS  133  were
derived  from, and are similar to, the existing qualifying criteria in SFAS  80,
"Accounting for Futures Contracts."  SFAS 133 describes three primary  types  of
hedge  relationships:  fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, and  foreign  currency
hedge. In June 1999, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No.  137  to  defer the required effective date of implementing  SFAS  133  from
fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999 to fiscal years beginning after  June
15,  2000. We will adopt SFAS 133 in fiscal 2001 and we are currently evaluating
the financial statement impact.

BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

 Aquisitions

      We  have  accounted for the following acquisitions by using  the  purchase
method.   The respective purchase price is assigned to the net assets  acquired,
based  on  the  fair  value  of such assets and liabilities  at  the  respective
acquisition dates.

      On  June  18,  1999,  we completed the acquisition of  Technico  S.A.  for
approximately $4.1 million and assummed approximately $2.2 million of Technico's
existing debt. The total cost of the acquisition exceeded the fair value of  the
net  assets  of  Technico by approximately $2.9 million, which is  preliminarily
being  allocated as goodwill, and amortized using the straight-line method  over
40  years.  The  acquisition was financed with additional  borrowings  from  our
credit facility.

     On April 20, 1999, we completed the acquisition of all the capital stock of
Kaynar   Technologies,  Inc.  for  approximately  $222   million   and   assumed
approximately $103 million of Kaynar Technologies's existing debt, the  majority
of  which  was  refinanced at closing. In addition, we paid $28  million  for  a
covenant   not   to   compete  from  Kaynar  Technologies's  largest   preferred
shareholder.  The total cost of the acquisition exceeded the fair value  of  the
net  assets  of  Kaynar Technologies by approximately $269.7 million,  which  is
preliminarily being allocated as goodwill, and amortized using the straight-line
method over 40 years. The acquisition was financed with existing cash, the  sale
of  $225 million of 10 3/4% senior subordinated notes due 2009 and proceeds from
a new bank credit facility.

      On February 22, 1999, we used available cash to acquire 77.3% of SNEP S.A.
By  June  30,  1997, we had purchased significantly all of the remaining  shares
SNEP.  The  total  amount  paid was approximately $8.0 million,  including  $1.1
million  of debt assumed, in a business combination accounted for as a purchase.
The  total cost of the acquisition exceeded the fair value of the net assets  of
SNEP  by  approximately $4.3 million, which is preliminarily being allocated  as
goodwill, and amortized using the straight-line method over 40 years.  SNEP is a
French manufacturer of precision machined self-locking nuts and special threaded
fasteners serving the European industrial, aerospace and automotive markets.

      On  March  2,  1998, we acquired Edwards and Lock Management  Corporation,
doing  business as Special-T Fasteners, in a business combination accounted  for
as  a purchase. The cost of the acquisition was approximately $50.0 million,  of
which 50.1% of the contractual purchase price was paid in shares of our Class  A
common  stock  and  49.9% was paid in cash. The total cost  of  the  acquisition
exceeded  the  fair value of the net assets of Special-T by approximately  $23.3
million, which is being allocated as goodwill, and amortized using the straight-
line  method  over  40  years.   Special-T manages the  logistics  of  worldwide
distribution  of  our manufactured precision fasteners to our customers  in  the
aerospace industry, government agencies, OEMs, and other distributors.

      On  November 28, 1997, we acquired AS+C GmbH, Aviation Supply + Consulting
in  a  business combination accounted for as a purchase. The total cost  of  the
acquisition was $14.0 million, which exceeded the fair value of the  net  assets
of  AS+C by approximately $8.1 million, which is being allocated as goodwill and
amortized  using the straight-line method over 40 years. We purchased AS+C  with
cash borrowings. AS+C is an aerospace parts, logistics, and distribution company
primarily servicing European customers.

      In February 1997, we completed a transaction pursuant to which we acquired
common  shares and convertible debt representing an 84.2% interest, on  a  fully
diluted basis, of Simmonds S.A. We then initiated a tender offer to purchase the
remaining shares and convertible debt held by the public.  By June 30, 1997,  we
had  purchased,  or  placed  sufficient cash in  escrow  to  purchase,  all  the
remaining shares and convertible debt of Simmonds. The total purchase  price  of
Simmonds,  including  the assumption of debt, was approximately  $62.0  million,
which  we  funded with available cash and borrowings. We recorded  approximately
$20.5  million  in  goodwill  as a result of this acquisition,  which  is  being
amortized  using  the straight-line method over 40 years.  Simmonds  is  one  of
Europe's leading manufacturers of aerospace and automotive fasteners.
    Divestitures

      On  December  31, 1998, Banner Aerospace consummated the sale  of  Solair,
Inc.,  its  largest  subsidiary in the rotables group, to Kellstrom  Industries,
Inc.,  in  exchange for approximately $60.4 million in cash  and  a  warrant  to
purchase  300,000 shares of common stock of Kellstrom. In December 1998,  Banner
Aerospace  recorded a $19.3 million pre-tax loss from the sale of  Solair.  This
loss was included in cost of goods sold as it was attributable primarily to  the
bulk sale of inventory at prices below the carrying amount of that inventory.

      On  January  13,  1998,  Banner  Aeropsace completed  the  disposition  of
substantially all of the assets and certain liabilities of certain  subsidiaries
to  AlliedSignal Inc., in exchange for shares of AlliedSignal Inc. common  stock
with  an aggregate value of $369 million. The assets transferred to AlliedSignal
consisted  primarily of Banner Aerospace's hardware group,  which  included  the
distribution  of  bearings,  nuts, bolts, screws,  rivets  and  other  types  of
fasteners, and its PacAero unit. Approximately $196 million of the common  stock
received  from AlliedSignal was used to repay outstanding term loans  of  Banner
Aerospace's subsidiaries, and related fees.

      On  June  30,  1997,  we  sold all the patents of  Fairchild  Scandinavian
Bellyloading Company to Teleflex Incorporated for $5.0 million, and  immediately
thereafter  sold  for  $2.0  million, all the stock  of  Fairchild  Scandinavian
Bellyloading  Company  to  a wholly-owned subsidiary of  Teleflex.  Nonrecurring
income  in  1997  included the $2.5 million gain from the sale  of  Scandinavian
Bellyloading Company.

3.   MINORITY INTEREST IN CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES

     Outstanding minority interest in our subsidiaries at June 30, 1999 and June
30, 1998 were $59 and $31,674 respectively.

      On  April 8, 1999, we acquired the remaining 15% of the outstanding common
and  preferred stock of Banner Aerospace, Inc. not already owned by us,  through
the merger of Banner Aerospace with one of our subsidiaries. Under the terms  of
the  merger with Banner, we issued 2,981,412 shares of our Class A common  stock
to  acquire  all  of Banner Aerospace's common and preferred stock  (other  than
those already owned by us). Banner Aerospace is now our wholly-owned subsidiary.

      On June 9, 1998 we exchanged 3,659,364 shares of Banner Aerospace's common
stock for 2,212,361 newly issued shares of our Class A common stock. As a result
of  the exchange offer, our ownership of Banner common stock increased to 83.3%.
In  May 1997, Banner Aerospace granted all of its stockholders certain rights to
purchase  Series  A  convertible paid-in-kind preferred stock.   In  June  1997,
Banner Aerospace received net proceeds of $33,876 and issued 3,710,955 shares of
preferred  stock. We purchased $28,390 of the preferred stock issued  by  Banner
Aerospace, increasing our voting percentage to 64.0%..

4.  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND NET ASSETS HELD FOR SALE

      On  March  11,  1998,  Shared  Technologies  Fairchild  Inc.  merged  into
Intermedia Communications Inc.  Under the terms of the merger, holders of Shared
Technologies  Fairchild  common stock received $15.00  per  share  in  cash.  We
received  approximately $178.0 million in cash (before tax and selling expenses)
in  exchange for the common and preferred stock of Shared Technologies Fairchild
we  owned.   In fiscal 1998, we recorded a $96.0 million gain, net  of  tax,  on
disposal of discontinued operations, from the proceeds received from the  merger
of  Shared  Technologies  Fairchild  with  Intermedia.  The  results  of  Shared
Technologies  Fairchild have been accounted for as discontinued operations.  Net
earnings from discontinued operations for Shared Technologies Fairchild was $648
and $3,149 in 1998 and 1997, respectively.

      In  fiscal  1999,  1998,  and  1997, Fairchild  Technologies  had  pre-tax
operating  losses  of  approximately $49.5  million,  $48.7  million,  and  $3.6
million,  respectively. In addition, as a result of the downturn  in  the  Asian
markets, Fairchild Technologies experienced delivery deferrals, reduction in new
orders,  lower margins and increased price competition. In response, in February
1998,  we  adopted a formal plan for disposition of Fairchild Technologies.  The
plan  called  for a reduction in production capacity and headcount at  Fairchild
Technologies  and  the pursuit of potential vertical and horizontal  integration
with  peers  and  competitors  of the two divisions  that  constitute  Fairchild
Technologies.

      During  the  fourth  quarter of fiscal 1999, we liquidated  a  significant
portion  of  Fairchild  Technologies, mostly  consisting  of  our  semiconductor
equipment group through several transactions.  On April 14, 1999, we disposed of
our  photoresist  deep  ultraviolet track equipment machines,  spare  parts  and
testing  equipment to Apex Co., Ltd. in exchange for 1,250,000  shares  of  Apex
stock  valued at approximately $5.1 million. On June 15, 1999, we received  $7.9
million from Suess Microtec AG and the right to receive 350,000 shares of  Suess
Microtec stock (or approximately $3.5 million) by September 2000 in exchange for
all  of  the  shares of Fairchild Technologies SEG GmbH and certain intellectual
property. On May 1, 1999, we sold Fairchild CDI for a nominal amount. Subsequent
to  June  30,  1999,  we received approximately $7.1 million  from  Novellus  in
exchange  for  our  Low-K  dielectric  product  line  and  certain  intellectual
property.  We are also exploring several alternative transactions regarding  the
Fairchild  Technologies optical disc equipment group business, but we  have  not
made any definitive arrangements for its ultimate disposition.

      In  connection  with the adoption of such plan, we recorded  an  after-tax
charge  of $31.3 million and $36.2 million in discontinued operations in  fiscal
1999  and  1998,  respectively. Included in the fiscal 1998  charge,  was  $28.2
million,  net of an income tax benefit of $11.8 million, for the net  losses  of
Fairchild Technologies through June 30, 1998 and $8.0 million, net of an  income
tax  benefit  of $4.8 million, for the estimated remaining operating  losses  of
Fairchild  Technologies. The fiscal 1999 after-tax operating loss from Fairchild
Technologies  exceeded the June 1998 estimate recorded for  expected  losses  by
$28.6  million, net of an income tax benefit of $8.1 million, through June 1999.
An  additional after-tax charge of $2.8 million, net of an income tax benefit of
$2.4  million, was recorded in fiscal 1999, based on a current estimate  of  the
remaining  losses in connection with the disposition of Fairchild  Technologies.
While  we  believe  that $2.8 million is a reasonable charge for  the  remaining
losses  to  be  incurred from Fairchild Technologies, there can be no  assurance
that this estimate is adequate.

      Earnings from discontinued operations for the twelve months ended June 30,
1998  and  1997  includes  net losses of $4,944 and $3,634,  respectively,  from
Fairchild  Technologies  until  the adoption date  of  a  formal  plan  for  its
discontinuance.

      Net  assets held for sale at June 30, 1999, includes two parcels  of  real
estate in California, and several other parcels of real estate located primarily
throughout  the  continental United States, which we  plan  to  sell,  lease  or
develop,  subject to the resolution of certain environmental matters and  market
conditions.   Also included in net assets held for sale are limited  partnership
interests  in a real estate development joint venture and a landfill development
partnership.

      Net  assets held for sale are stated at the lower of cost or at  estimated
net realizable value, which consider anticipated sales proceeds. Interest is not
allocated to net assets held for sale.

5.   PRO FORMA FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)

      The  following table set forth the derivation of the unaudited  pro  forma
results,  representing  the  impact of our acquisition  of  Kaynar  Technologies
(completed in April 1999), our merger with Banner Aerospace (completed in  April
1999), our acquisition of Special-T (effective January 1998), our disposition of
Solair  (completed in December 1998), our disposition of the hardware  group  of
Banner  Aerospace  (completed  January 13,  1998),  the  disposition  of  Shared
Technologies  Fairchild  (completed  in March  1998),  and  our  divestiture  of
Fairchild  Scandianvian Bellyloading Company (completed June 30,  1997),  as  if
these  transactions had occurred at the beginning of each period presented.  The
pro  forma information is based on the historical financial statements of  these
companies,  giving effect to the aforementioned transactions.  In preparing  the
pro  forma data, certain assumptions and adjustments have been made which reduce
interest  expense  and investment income from our revised  debt  structures  and
reduce  minority interest from our merger with Banner Aerospace. The  pro  forma
financial  information does not reflect nonrecurring income and gains  from  the
disposal  of discontinued operations that have occurred from these transactions.
The  unaudited pro forma information is not intended to be indicative of  either
future  results  of our operations or results that might have been  achieved  if
these transactions had been in effect since the beginning of each period
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                             1999     1998     1997
<S>                                        <C>      <C>      <C>
Sales                                     $ 756,481 $784,637 $ 590,981
Operating income (a)                          9,194   64,980    24,842
Earnings (loss) from continuing operations
(a, b)                                     (13,268)   10,110   (5,400)
Basic earnings (loss) from continuing
operations per share                         (0.58)     0.45    (0.28)
Diluted earnings (loss) from continuing
operations per share                         (0.58)     0.42    (0.28)
Net earnings (loss)                        (48,770)   58,801   (5,885)
Basic earnings (loss) per share              (2.14)     2.61    (0.30)
Diluted earnings (loss) per share            (2.14)     2.43    (0.30)

(a)   -  Fiscal 1999 pro forma results includes pre-tax charges recorded for the
  write-down of inventory and allowances for the doubtful collection of  certain
  accounts receivable of $25,045, costs relating to acquisitions of $23,604  and
  restructuring charges of $6,374.
(b)   -  Excludes  pre-tax investment income of $35,407 from the liquidation  of
  certain investments.
</TABLE>

6.   INVESTMENTS

Investments  at  June 30, 1999 consist primarily of common stock investments  in
public corporations, which are classified as trading securities or
available-for-sale securities.  Other short-term investments and long-term
investments do  not have  readily  determinable fair values and consist
primarily of investments  in preferred  and  common shares of private companies
and limited  partnerships.  A summary of investments held by us follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                          June 30, 1999  June 30, 1998
                                          Aggregate      Aggregate
                                          Fair     Cost   Fair   Cost
                                          Value   Basis   Value  Basis
<S>                                      <C>     <C>      <C>     <C>
Short-term investments:
     Trading securities - equity         $ 1,254 $ 1,221 $    -  $    -
     Available-for-sale equity            11,618   9,573  3,907   5,410
securities
     Other investments                       222     222     55      55
                                         $13,094 $11,016 $3,962  $5,465
Long-term investments:
     Available-for-sale equity
securities                               $14,616 $ 7,342 $234,307 $195,993
     Other investments                     1,228   1,228    1,128    1,128
                                         $15,844 $ 8,570 $235,435 $197,121
</TABLE>

     On June 30, 1999, we had gross unrealized holding gains from available-for-
sale  securities of $13,649 and gross unrealized holding losses from  available-
for-sale securities of $4,330.

     Investment income is summarized as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                          1999     1998   1997
<S>                                      <C>     <C>      <C>
 Gross realized gain from sales          $36,677 $  364   $1,673
 Change in unrealized holding gain
(loss) from trading securities                33 (5,791)   4,289
 Gross realized loss from impairments          -   (182)       -
 Dividend income                           3,090   2,247     689
                                         $39,800 $(3,362) $6,651
</TABLE>

7.   INVESTMENTS AND ADVANCES, AFFILIATED COMPANIES

The  following table summarizes historical financial information on  a  combined
100%  basis  of  our principal investments, which are accounted  for  using  the
equity method.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                      1999     1998     1997
<S>                                 <C>       <C>       <C>
 Statement of Earnings:
     Net sales                      $ 75,495 $ 90,235 $102,962

     Gross profit                     25,297   32,449   39,041

     Earnings from continuing
operations                            13,119   14,780   14,812

     Net earnings                     13,119   14,780   14,812

 Balance Sheet at June 30:

     Current assets                 $ 26,942 $ 33,867

     Non-current assets               38,661   39,898

     Total assets                     65,603   73,765

     Current liabilities              12,249   14,558

     Non-current liabilities           1,828    1,471
</TABLE>

     On  June 30, 1999 we owned approximately 31.9% of Nacanco Paketleme  common
stock.   We  recorded equity earnings of $4,153, $4,683, and  $4,673  from  this
investment for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     Our  share  of  equity  in  earnings, net of  tax,  of  all  unconsolidated
affiliates for 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $1,795, $2,571, and $2,989, respectively.
The carrying value of investments and advances, affiliated companies consists of
the following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                       June     June
                                       30,      30,
                                      1999     1998
<S>                                 <C>       <C>
 Nacanco                             $17,356  $19,329
 Others                               14,435    8,239
                                     $31,791  $27,568
</TABLE>

      On  June  30,  1999,  approximately $2,698 of  our  $252,030  consolidated
retained  earnings  were  from undistributed earnings  of  50  percent  or  less
currently owned affiliates accounted for using the equity method.

8.  NOTES PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM DEBT

At  June  30, 1999 and 1998, notes payable and long-term debt consisted  of  the
following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                            June 30,  June 30,
                                              1999      1998
<S>                                        <C>        <C>
 Short-term notes payable (weighted
average interest rates of 3.6%              $ 22,924  $ 17,811
   and 5.2% in 1999 and 1998,
respectively)
 Bank credit agreements                     $258,100  $290,800
 10 3/4 % Senior subordinated notes due 2009
                                             225,000         -
 10.65% Industrial revenue bonds               1,500     1,500
 Capital lease obligations, interest from
6.9% to 10.1%                                  2,873       923
 Other notes payable, collateralized by
property, plant and
   equipment, interest from 3.5% to 10.5%     13,746     5,033

                                             501,219   298,256
 Less: Current maturities                     (5,936)   (2,854)
 Net long-term debt                         $495,283  $295,402
</TABLE>

     Credit Agreements

     We maintain credit facilities with a consortium of banks, providing us with
a  term  loan  and revolving credit facilities. On April 20, 1999,  simultaneous
with  our  acquisition of Kaynar Technologies, we restructured our then existing
credit  facilities by entering into a new credit agreement to provide us with  a
$325,000 senior secured credit facility. The new credit facilities consist of  a
$225,000 term loan and a $100,000 revolving loan with a $40,000 letter of credit
sub-facility  and a $15,000 swing loan sub-facility. Borrowings under  the  term
loan will generally bear interest at a rate of, at our option, either 2% over
the  Citibank N.A. base rate, or 3% over the Eurodollar rate until March  31,
2000,  and is subject to change based upon our financial performance thereafter.
Advances made under the revolving credit facilities will generally bear interest
at  a rate of, at our option, either (i) 2% over the Citibank N.A. base rate, or
(ii)  3% over the Eurodollar rate until March 31, 2000, and is subject to change
based  upon our financial performance thereafter. The new credit facilities  are
subject to a non-use commitment fee on the aggregate unused availability, of
1/2% if greater than half of the revolving loan is being utilized or 3/4%
if less than
half of the revolving loan is being utilized.  Outstanding letters of credit are
subject  to  fees  equivalent  to the Eurodollar margin  rate.  The  new  credit
facilities will mature on April 30, 2006. The term loan is subject to  mandatory
prepayment requirements and optional prepayments. The revolving loan is  subject
to mandatory prepayment requirements and optional commitment reductions.

      We  are  required  under the new credit agreement to comply  with  certain
financial  and  non-financial  loan  covenants,  including  maintaining  certain
interest  and  fixed charge coverage ratios and maintaining certain indebtedness
to  EBITDA  ratios  at  the end of each fiscal quarter.  Additionally,  the  new
credit  agreement  restricts annual capital expenditures to $40,000  during  the
life of the facility. Except for non-guarantor assets, substantially all of  our
assets  are pledged as collateral under the new credit agreement. The new credit
agreement restricts the payment of dividends to our shareholders to an aggregate
of the lesser of $0.01 per share or $400 over the life of the agreement. At June
30,  1999,  we  were  in  compliance with all the  covenants  under  the  credit
agreement.

      At  June  30,  1999, we had borrowings outstanding of  $33,100  under  the
revolving credit facilities and we had letters of credit outstanding of $17,677,
which  were  supported by a sub-facility under the revolving credit  facilities.
At  June  30,  1999, we had unused bank lines of credit aggregating $49,223,  at
interest  rates  slightly higher than the prime rate.  We  also  had  short-term
lines  of  credit  relating to foreign operations, aggregating $25,857,  against
which we owed $12,295 at June 30, 1999.

     Senior Subordinated Notes

      On  April  20,  1999,  in  conjunction  with  the  acquisition  of  Kaynar
Technologies,  we  issued, at par value, $225,000 of 10 3/4% senior subordinated
notes  that mature on April 15, 2009. We will pay interest on these notes  semi-
annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year, beginning on October 15, 1999.
Except in the case of certain equity offerings by us, we cannot choose to redeem
these  notes until five years have passed from the issue date of the  notes.  At
any  one or more times after that date, we may choose to redeem some or  all  of
the  notes  at certain specified prices, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  Upon
the  occurrence of certain change of control events, each holder may require  us
to  repurchase all or a portion of the notes at 101% of their principal  amount,
plus accrued and unpaid interest.

      The  notes  are our senior subordinated unsecured obligations.  They  rank
senior  to  or  equal  in right of payment with any of our  future  subordinated
indebtedness,  and subordinated in right of payment to any of our  existing  and
future   senior   indebtedness.  The  notes  are  effectively  subordinated   to
indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries which are not guarantors.
Substantially  all  of  our  domestic  subsidiaries  guarantee  the  notes  with
unconditional  guarantees  of  payment that will effectively  rank  below  their
senior  debt, but will rank equal to their other subordinated debt, in right  of
payment.

      The  indenture  under which the notes were issued contains covenants  that
limit  what  we  (and  most or all of our subsidiaries) may  do.  The  indenture
contains covenants that limit our ability to: incur additional indebtedness; pay
dividends  on,  redeem or repurchase our capital stock; make  investments;  sell
assets;  create  certain liens; engage in certain transactions with  affiliates;
and  consolidate or merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets or  the
assets  of  certain of our subsidiaries. In addition, we will  be  obligated  to
offer  to  repurchase the notes at 100% of their principal amount, plus  accrued
and  unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase, in the event of certain
asset  sales.  These restrictions and prohibitions are subject to  a  number  of
important qualifications and exceptions.

     Debt Maturity Information

      The  annual  maturity  of  our  bank  notes  payable  and  long-term  debt
obligations (exclusive of capital lease obligations) for each of the five  years
following  June  30, 1999, are as follows:  $27,690 for 2000, $5,189  for  2001,
$4,113 for 2002, $3,632 for 2003 and $2,988 for 2004.

    Hedge Agreements

      In  September 1995, we entered into several interest rate hedge agreements
to manage our exposure to increases in interest rates on our variable rate debt.
The hedge agreements provide interest rate protection on $60,000 of debt through
September 2000, by providing an interest rate cap of 7% if the 90-day LIBOR rate
exceeds 7%. If the 90-day LIBOR rate drops below 5%, we will be required to  pay
interest at a floor rate of approximately 6%.

      In November 1996, we entered into an additional hedge agreement to provide
interest  rate protection on $20,000 of debt through November 1999.   The  hedge
agreement  provides for a cap of 7 1/4% if the 90-day LIBOR exceeds 7  1/4%.  If
the  90-day LIBOR drops below 5%, we will be required to pay interest at a floor
rate  of  approximately 6%.  No cash outlay was required to  obtain  this  hedge
agreement, as the cost of the cap was offset by the sale of the floor.

      In  fiscal 1998 we entered into a series of interest rate hedge agreements
to reduce our exposure to increases in interest rates on variable rate debt. The
ten-year  hedge agreements provides us with interest rate protection on $100,000
of  variable  rate debt, with interest being calculated based on a  fixed  LIBOR
rate  of 6.24% to February 17, 2003. On February 17, 2003, the bank will have  a
one-time  option to elect to cancel the agreement or to do nothing  and  proceed
with the transaction, using a fixed LIBOR rate of 6.715% for the period February
17,  2003  to  February 19, 2008. No costs were incurred as a  result  of  these
transactions.

      We recognize interest expense under the provisions of the hedge agreements
based  on  the  fixed rate. We are exposed to credit loss in the event  of  non-
performance by the lenders; however, such non-performance is not anticipated.

      The  table  below  provides  information about  our  derivative  financial
instruments  and other financial instruments that are sensitive  to  changes  in
interest  rates,  including interest rate swaps. For interest  rate  swaps,  the
table  presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected
(contractual)  maturity  dates.  Notional amounts  are  used  to  calculate  the
contractual  payments  to  be  exchanged under the  contract.  Weighted  average
variable  rates  are based on implied forward rates in the yield  curve  at  the
reporting date.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                Expected Maturity Date
                         2000   2001    2002   2003     2004 Thereafter
<S>                     <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>      <C>
Interest Rate Swaps:
   Variable to fixed    20,000 60,000     -      -       -    100,000
      Average cap rate   7.25%  6.81%     -      -       -     6.49%
      Average floor      5.84%  5.99%     -      -       -     6.24%
rate
      Weighted average   5.71%  5.74%     -      -       -     6.12%
rate
      Fair market value  (44)   (99)      -      -       -    (3,709)
</TABLE>

      The fair value of our other off-balance-sheet financial instruments is not
material  at  June 30, 1999. The fair value of our fixed rate debt  approximates
our carrying balance at June 30, 1999.

9. PENSIONS AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

     Pensions

      In  February  1998,  the  FASB issued Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards   No.   132,   "Employers'  Disclosures  about  Pensions   and   Other
Postretirement   Benefits."   This  statement  amends  and  eliminates   certain
disclosures  previously required as well as adds certain new disclosures.   This
statement does not change the way pension costs and liabilities are measured  or
recognized in the financial statements. To conform to Statement No. 132, we have
presented  and,  where necessary, restated our disclosure in these  consolidated
financial statements.

     We  have  defined  benefit pension plans covering most  of  our  employees.
Employees  in  our foreign subsidiaries may participate in local pension  plans,
for which our liability is in the aggregate insignificant. Our funding policy is
to  make  the  minimum  annual contribution required by the Employee  Retirement
Income     Security     Act     of    1974    or    local     statutory     law.
     The changes in the pension plans' benefit obligations were as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                     1999   1998
<S>                                 <C>     <C>
Projected benefit obligation at
July 1,                            $222,607 $206,444
Service cost                          3,454    2,685
Interest cost                        14,328   14,518
Actuarial (gains) / losses           (5,003)  15,364
Benefit payments                    (14,236) (16,366)
Plan amendment                          837        -
Foreign currency translation             (2)     (38)
Projected benefit obligation at
 June 30,                          $221,985 $222,607
</TABLE>

    The changes in the fair values of the pension plans' assets were as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                     1999   1998
<S>                                 <C>     <C>
Plan assets at July 1,            $261,097$237,480
Actual return on plan assets        11,995  41,102
Administrative expenses             (1,190) (1,024)
Benefit payments                   (14,236)(16,366)
Foreign currency translation            (4)    (95)
Plan assets at June 30,           $257,662$261,097
</TABLE>

      The following table sets forth the funded status and amounts recognized in
our consolidated balance sheets at June 30, 1999 and 1998, for the plans:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                           June 30,June 30,
                                             1999    1998
<S>                                        <C>      <C>
Plan assets in excess of projected benefit
obligations                               $ 35,677 $ 38,490
Unrecognized net loss                       27,867   23,797
Unrecognized prior service cost/(credit)       634     (387)
Unrecognized transition (asset)              (220)     (257)
Prepaid pension expense recognized in the
balance sheet                             $ 63,958 $ 61,643
</TABLE>

      The  net  prepaid  pension expense recognized in the consolidated  balance
sheets consisted entirely of a prepaid pension asset.
     A summary of the components of total pension expense is as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                     1999   1998    1997
<S>                               <C>      <C>     <C>
Service cost - benefits earned
during the period                 $  3,454 $ 2,685 $ 2,521
Interest cost on projected benefit
obligation                          14,328  14,518  15,833
Expected return on plan assets     (21,694)(20,455)(21,294)
Amortization of net loss             1,813   1,522     928
Amortization of prior service
credit                                (184)   (184)   (180)
Amortization of transition (asset)     (36)    (38)    (39)
Loss recognized due to curtailment       -       -     142
Net periodic pension (income)      $(2,319)$(1,952)$(2,089)
</TABLE>

     Weighted  average  assumptions used in accounting for the  defined  benefit
pension plans as of June 30, 1999 and 1998 were as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                     1999   1998
<S>                                 <C>     <C>
Discount rate                        7.25%  7.0%
Expected rate of increase in         4.5%   4.5%
salaries
Expected long-term rate of return    9.0%   9.0%
on plan assets
</TABLE>

      Plan assets include an investment in our Class A common stock, valued at a
fair market value of $8,178 and $16,167 at June 30, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
Substantially  all  of the other plan assets are invested in listed  stocks  and
bonds.

     Postretirement Health Care Benefits

      We  provide  health  care  benefits for most  of  our  retired  employees.
Postretirement  health care benefit expense from continuing  operations  totaled
$951,  $804,  and $642 for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.  Our  accrual  was
approximately  $33,155 and $33,062 as of June 30, 1999 and  1998,  respectively,
for  postretirement  health  care benefits related to  discontinued  operations.
This represents the cumulative discounted value of the long-term obligation  and
includes interest expense of $3,902, $3,714, and $3,349 for the years ended June
30, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     The  changes  in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation  of  the
plans were as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                         1999     1998
<S>                                    <C>       <C>
Accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation at July 1,                  $ 58,197$ 50,870
Service cost                                227     166
Interest cost                             3,860   3,979
Actuarial (gains) / losses              (2,718)  10,696
Benefit payments                        (4,539) (6,511)
Plan amendment                                - (1,003)
Accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation at June 30,                 $ 55,027$ 58,197
</TABLE>

      In  fiscal 1998, we amended a former subsidiary's medical plan to increase
the  retirees' contribution rate to approximately 20% of the negotiated premium.
Such   plan   amendment  resulted  in  a  $1,003  decrease  to  the  accumulated
postretirement  benefit  obligation and is being amortized  as  an  unrecognized
prior  service  credit  over  the  average future  lifetime  of  the  respective
retirees.

      The following table sets forth the funded status and amounts recognized in
the  Company's  consolidated balance sheets at June 30, 1999 and 1998,  for  the
plans:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                           1999     1998
<S>                                      <C>       <C>
Accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation                               $ 55,027$ 58,197
Unrecognized prior service credit            (866)   (935)
Unrecognized net loss                      12,833  16,387
Accrued postretirement benefit liability $ 43,060$ 42,745
</TABLE>

      The  accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was determined using  a
discount  rate of 7.25% at June 30, 1999 and 7.0% at June 30, 1998.  The  effect
of  such change resulted in a decrease to the accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation  in  fiscal 1999.  For measurement purposes, a 6.0%  annual  rate  of
increase  in  the  per capita claims cost of covered health  care  benefits  was
assumed for fiscal 1999.  The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 4.0% for
fiscal 2003 and remain at that level thereafter.

     A summary of the components of total postretirement expense is as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                        1999   1998    1997
<S>                                    <C>     <C>     <C>
Service cost - benefits earned during
the period                            $   227  $  166 $  140
Interest cost on accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation       3,860   3,979  3,940
Amortization of prior service credit      (69)    (69)     -
Amortization of net (gain) / loss         835     442    (89)
Net periodic postretirement benefit
cost                                  $ 4,853 $ 4,518 $3,991
</TABLE>


      Assumed  health  care cost trend rates have a significant  effect  on  the
amounts  reported  for  health  care plans.  A one  percentage-point  change  in
assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects as of  and
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1999:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                         One Percentage-Point
                                         Increase Decrease
<S>                                      <C>       <C>
Effect on service and interest
components of net periodic cost          $    126 $ (122)
Effect on accumulated postretirement        1,604 (1,513)
benefit obligation
</TABLE>

10.  INCOME TAXES

      The  provision  (benefit) for income taxes from continuing  operations  is
summarized as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                               1999    1998     1997
<S>                          <C>      <C>      <C>
 Current:
     Federal                $  3,416 $ (6,245) $ 4,003

     State                       140      500    1,197

     Foreign                   3,994    3,893      (49)

                               7,550   (1,852)   5,151
 Deferred:
     Federal                 (10,731)  46,092  (15,939)

     State                   (10,064)   3,034    3,444

                             (20,795)  49,126 (12,495)

 Net tax provision (benefit)$(13,245) $47,274 $(7,344)
</TABLE>

      The  income tax provision (benefit) for continuing operations differs from
that  computed  using the statutory Federal income tax rate of  35%,  in  fiscal
1999, 1998 and 1997, for the following reasons:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                          1999     1998    1997
<S>                                     <C>       <C>      <C>
 Computed statutory amount              $(12,760) $43,188  $(1,751)
 State income taxes, net of applicable
federal tax benefit                        2,488    4,362      778
 Nondeductible acquisition valuation
items                                      1,903    1,204    1,064
 Tax on foreign earnings, net of tax
credits                                   (2,392)  (1,143)  (1,938)
 Difference between book and tax basis
of assets acquired and                       (53)   4,932   (1,102)
    liabilities assumed
 Revision of estimate for tax accruals    (1,790)  (3,905)  (5,335)
 Other                                      (641)  (1,364)     940
 Net tax provision (benefit)            $(13,245) $47,274  $(7,344)
</TABLE>


      The  following  table is a summary of the significant  components  of  our
deferred tax assets and liabilities, and deferred provision or benefit, for  the
following periods:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                    1999             1998     1997
                                  Deferred          Deferred  Deferred
                         June 30,(Provision)June 30,(Provision)(Provision)
                           1999  Benefit    1998    Benefit   Benefit
<S>                      <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>      <C>
 Deferred tax assets:
 Accrued expenses        $ 14,159 $ 11,572 $ 2,587 $(3,853)  $  504
 Asset basis differences    8,822      710   8,112   7,540   (1,492)
 Inventory                 11,117   11,117       -  (2,198)   2,198
 Employee compensation
and benefits               13,587    8,501   5,086     (55)   (267)
 Environmental reserves     3,975      509   3,466     207  (1,253)
 Loss and credit
carryforward                    -        -       -        - (8,796)
 Postretirement benefits   16,428   (1,706) 18,134   (1,338)   138
 Other                      4,639   (7,465) 12,104    4,506  2,079

                           72,727   23,238  49,489    4,809 (6,889)
 Deferred tax
liabilities:
 Asset basis differences  (84,386)  (3,954)(80,432) (54,012)(3,855)
 Inventory                      -    1,546  (1,546)  (1,546) 2,010
 Pensions                 (19,614)    (428)(19,186)      95 (1,038)
 Other                     (5,319)     393  (5,712)   1,528 22,267

                         (109,319)  (2,443)(106,876)(53,935)19,384
 Net deferred tax
 liability               $(36,592) $20,795 $(57,387)$(49,126)$12,495
</TABLE>

     The amounts included in the balance sheet are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                      June    June
                                      30,     30,
                                      1999    1998
<S>                                 <C>      <C>
 Prepaid expenses and other current
assets:
 Current deferred                   $5,999   $     -
 Income taxes payable:
 Current deferred                   $    -   $34,553
 Other current                           -    (6,242)
                                    $    -   $28,311
 Noncurrent income tax liabilities:
 Noncurrent deferred                $42,591  $22,834
 Other noncurrent                    79,370   72,342
                                   $121,961  $95,176
</TABLE>

      The  1999, 1998 and 1997 net tax benefits include the results of reversing
$1,790,  $3,905,  and  $5,335 respectively, of federal income  taxes  previously
provided for, due to a change in the estimate of required tax accruals.

      Domestic  income  taxes,  less  available credits,  are  provided  on  the
unremitted  income  of  foreign subsidiaries and affiliated  companies,  to  the
extent  we  intend  to repatriate such earnings.  No domestic  income  taxes  or
foreign  withholding taxes are provided on the undistributed earnings of foreign
subsidiaries and affiliates, which are considered permanently invested, or which
would  be offset by allowable foreign tax credits.  At June 30, 1999, the amount
of   domestic  taxes  payable  upon  distribution  of  such  earnings  was   not
significant.

      In the opinion of our management, adequate provision has been made for all
income  taxes  and interest; and any liability that may arise for prior  periods
will  not  have a material effect on our financial condition or our  results  of
operations.

11.  EQUITY SECURITIES

      We  had 22,258,580 shares of Class A common stock and 2,621,652 shares  of
Class  B  common  stock outstanding at June 30, 1999.  Class A common  stock  is
traded  on  both the New York and Pacific Stock Exchanges.  There is  no  public
market  for  the  Class  B common stock.  Shares of Class  A  common  stock  are
entitled  to one vote per share and cannot be exchanged for shares  of  Class  B
common  stock.   Shares of Class B common stock are entitled to  ten  votes  per
share and can be exchanged, at any time, for shares of Class A common stock on a
share-for-share  basis.  In fiscal 1999, 75,383 and 14,969  shares  of  Class  A
common  stock were issued as a result of the exercise of stock options  and  the
Special-T restricted stock plan, respectively, and shareholders converted  3,064
shares  of  Class  B common stock into Class A common stock. In accordance  with
terms  of  our acquisition of Special-T, as amended, we issued 9,911  restricted
shares  of  our  Class  A  common  stock in fiscal  1999  as  additional  merger
consideration. Additionally, our Class A common stock outstanding was reduced as
a result of 1,239,750 shares purchased by Banner Aerospace, which are considered
as treasury stock for accounting purposes.

      On  April 8, 1999, we acquired the remaining 15% of the outstanding common
and  preferred  stock of Banner Aerospace not already owned by us,  through  the
merger of Banner Aerospace with one of our subsidiaries. Under the terms of  the
merger  with Banner Aerospace, we issued 2,981,412 shares of our Class A  common
stock  to  acquire all of Banner Aerospace's common and preferred  stock,  other
than those shares already owned by us.

     During fiscal 1999, we issued 8,852 deferred compensation units pursuant to
our  stock  option  deferral plan as a result of a cashless exercise  of  15,000
stock  options.  Each deferred compensation unit is represented by one share  of
our treasury stock and is convertible into one share of our Class A common stock
after a specified period of time.

12.    STOCK OPTIONS AND WARRANTS

     Stock Options

      We  are authorized to issue 5,141,000 shares of our Class A common  stock,
upon  the  exercise  of  stock options issued under our 1986  non-qualified  and
incentive  stock option plan.  The purpose of the 1986 stock option plan  is  to
encourage  continued  employment and ownership of Class A common  stock  by  our
officers  and  key  employees, and to provide additional  incentive  to  promote
success.  The 1986 stock option plan authorizes the granting of options  at  not
less  than  the market value of the common stock at the time of the  grant.  The
option  price  is payable in cash or, with the approval of our compensation  and
stock  option  committee of the Board of Directors, in shares of  common  stock,
valued  at  fair  market value at the time of exercise.   The  options  normally
terminate five years from the date of grant, subject to extension of  up  to  10
years  or  for  a  stipulated  period  of time  after  an  employee's  death  or
termination of employment.  The 1986 plan expires on April 9, 2006; however, all
stock  options outstanding as of April 9, 2006 shall continue to be  exercisable
pursuant to their terms.

      We are authorized to issue 250,000 shares of our Class A common stock upon
the  exercise  of  stock  options issued under  the ten year  1996  non-employee
directors stock option plan.  The 1996 non-employee directors stock option  plan
authorizes  the granting of options at the market value of the common  stock  on
the  date of grant.  An initial stock option grant for 30,000 shares of Class  A
common  stock  is  made to each person who becomes a new non-employee  Director,
with  the options vesting 25% each year from the date of grant.  On the date  of
each  annual  meeting, each person elected as a non-employee  Director  will  be
granted  an  option  for  1,000  shares  of  Class  A  common  stock  that  vest
immediately.  The exercise price is payable in cash or, with the approval of our
compensation and stock option committee, in shares of Class A or Class B  common
stock,  valued at fair market value at the date of exercise.  All options issued
under  the  1996  non-employee directors stock option plan will  terminate  five
years from the date of grant or a stipulated period of time after a non-employee
Director  ceases  to be a member of the Board.  The 1996 non-employee  directors
stock  option  plan  is designed to maintain our ability to attract  and  retain
highly qualified and competent persons to serve as our outside directors.

      Upon  our  April  8,  1999  merger with Banner Aerospace,  all  of  Banner
Aerospace's  stock options then issued and outstanding were converted  into  the
right to receive 870,315 shares of our common stock.

      On November 17, 1994, our stockholders approved the grant of stock options
of  190,000  shares to our outside Directors to replace expired  stock  options.
These stock options expire five years from the date of the grant.

      A  summary  of stock option transactions under our stock option  plans  is
presented in the following tables:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                           Weighted
                                           Average
                                           Exercise
                                Shares      Price
<S>                           <C>        <C>
Outstanding at July 1, 1996    1,273,487  $     4.27
    Granted                      457,350       14.88
    Exercised                   (234,935)       4.79
    Expired                       (1,050)       4.59
    Forfeited                     (9,412)       3.59
Outstanding at June 30, 1997   1,485,440        7.46
    Granted                      357,250       24.25
    Exercised                   (141,259)       4.70
    Forfeited                    (46,650)       7.56
Outstanding at June 30, 1998   1,654,781        7.46
    Granted                      338,000       14.36
    Plans assumption from        870,315        4.25
Banner merger
    Exercised                    (75,383)       5.21
    Expired                         (500)       3.50
    Forfeited                       (650)      12.16
Outstanding at June 30, 1999   2,786,563     $ 11.05
Exercisable at June 30, 1997     486,855     $  4.95
Exercisable at June 30, 1998     667,291     $  6.58
Exercisable at June 30, 1999   1,867,081     $  8.75
</TABLE>

     A summary of options outstanding at June 30, 1999 is presented as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>



                     Options Outstanding          Opertions Exercisable
                               Weighted Average            Weighted
                               Average  Remaining          Average
Range of          Number       Exercise Contracted Number  Exercise
Exercise Prices   Outstanding  Price    Life   Exercisable Price
<S>                 <C>        <C>      <C>       <C>       <C>
  $3.50 - $8.625                         1.4
                    1,149,787  $ 4.76    years1,017,490  $ 4.84
  $8.72 - $13.48                         4.6
                      396,741  $ 9.56   years   386,741  $ 9.47
 $13.625 - $16.25                        3.5
                      906,285  $14.77   years   379,412  $15.07
$18.5625 - $25.0625                      3.2
                      333,750  $24.02   years    83,438  $24.14
 $3.50 - $25.0625                        4.1
                    2,786,563  $11.05   years 1,867,081  $ 8.75
</TABLE>

      The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted during 1999,
1998,  and 1997 was $6.48, $11.18, and $6.90, respectively.  The fair  value  of
each  option  granted  is  estimated on the grant date using  the  Black-Scholes
option  pricing  model.   The following significant  assumptions  were  made  in
estimating fair value:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                 1999       1998        1997
<S>                           <C>        <C>         <C>
Risk-free interest rate      4.3% - 5.4% 5.4% - 6.3% 6.0% - 6.7%
Expected life in years           4.66       4.66        4.65
Expected volatility            45% - 46%  44% - 45%  43% - 45%
Expected dividends               none        none       none
</TABLE>

      We  recognized compensation expense of $23 from stock options issued to  a
consultant  and $414 from an employee stock plan that was established  with  our
acquisition  of Special-T Fasteners in 1998. We recognized compensation  expense
of $104 as a result of stock options that were modified in 1998. We are applying
APB  Opinion  No. 25 in accounting for its stock option plans.  Accordingly,  no
compensation cost has been recognized for the granting of stock options  to  our
employees in 1999, 1998 or 1997. If stock options granted in 1999, 1998 and 1997
were  accounted for based on their fair value as determined under SFAS 123,  pro
forma earnings would be as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                  1999     1998     1997
<S>                             <C>      <C>       <C>
Net earnings (loss):
    As reported                $(59,009) $101,090 $ 1,331
    Pro forma                   (60,682)   99,817     283
Basic earnings (loss) per
share:
    As reported                $  (2.59) $   5.36  $ 0.08
    Pro forma                     (2.66)     5.30    0.02
Diluted earnings (loss) per
share:
    As reported                $  (2.59) $   5.14  $ 0.08
    Pro forma                     (2.66)     5.07    0.02
</TABLE>

      The  pro forma effects of applying SFAS 123 are not representative of  the
effects on reported net earnings for future years. The effect of SFAS 123 is not
applicable  to  awards  made prior to 1996. Additional awards  are  expected  in
future years.

     Stock Option Deferral Plan

      On  November  17, 1998, our shareholders approved a stock option  deferral
plan.   Pursuant to the stock option deferral plan, certain officers  (at  their
election)  may defer payment of the "compensation" they receive in a  particular
year  or  years  from  the exercise of stock options. "Compensation"  means  the
excess  value of a stock option, determined by the difference between  the  fair
market value of shares issueable upon exercise of a stock option, and the option
price  payable  upon  exercise  of  the stock  option.   An  officer's  deferred
compensation   is  payable  in  the  form  of  "deferred  compensation   units,"
representing the number of shares of common stock that the officer  is  entitled
to  receive  upon  expiration of the deferral period.  The  number  of  deferred
compensation units issueable to an officer is determined by dividing the  amount
of  the  deferred compensation by the fair market value of our stock as  of  the
date of deferral.

     Stock Warrants

      Effective  as  of  February 21, 1997, we approved the continuation  of  an
existing  warrant  to  Stinbes  Limited (an affiliate  of  Jeffrey  Steiner)  to
purchase  375,000  shares of our Class A or Class B common stock  at  $7.80  per
share.  The  warrant has been modified to permit exercise within certain  window
periods  including,  within two years after the merger  of  Shared  Technologies
Fairchild  Inc. with certain companies. The warrant's exercise price  per  share
increases by $.002 for each day subsequent to March 13, 1999. The payment of the
warrant price may be made in cash or in shares of our Class A or Class B  common
stock,  valued  at  fair  market value at the time of exercise,  or  combination
thereof.  In no event may the warrant be exercised after March 13, 2002, but  as
a  result of certain events is now exercisable only through March 9, 2000. As  a
result of certain modifications to the warrant, we recognized a charge of $5,606
in 1998.

     On February 21, 1996, we issued warrants to purchase 25,000 shares of Class
A  common stock, at $9.00 per share, to a non-employee for services provided  in
connection with our various dealings with Peregrine Direct Investments  Limited.
The  warrants issued are immediately exercisable and will expire on November  8,
2000.

     On November 9, 1995, we issued warrants to purchase 500,000 shares of Class
A  Common Stock, at $9.00 per share, to Peregrine Direct Investments Limited, in
exchange  for  a  standby  commitment it received  on  November  8,  1995,  from
Peregrine. We elected not to exercise our rights under the Peregrine commitment.
The warrants are immediately exercisable and will expire on November 8, 2000.

13.  EARNINGS PER SHARE

The  following  table illustrates the computation of basic and diluted  earnings
(loss) per share:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                         1999    1998     1997
<S>                                    <C>      <C>      <C>
Basic earnings per share:
Earnings (loss) from continuing
operations                            $(23,507) $52,399 $  1,816
Weighted average common shares
outstanding                             22,766   18,834   16,539
Basic earnings per share:
Basic earnings (loss) from continuing
operations per share                  $ (1.03)  $  2.78  $  0.11

Diluted earnings per share:
Earnings (loss) from continuing
operations                            $(23,507) $ 52,399 $  1,816
Weighted average common shares
outstanding                             22,766    18,834   16,539
Diluted effect of options          Antidilutive      546      449
Diluted effect of warrants         Antidilutive      289      333
Total shares outstanding                22,766    19,669   17,321
Diluted earnings (loss) from
continuing operations per share      $   (1.03) $   2.66 $   0.11
</TABLE>

      The  computation of diluted loss from continuing operations per share  for
1999  excluded  the  effect  of incremental common shares  attributable  to  the
potential exercise of common stock options outstanding and warrants outstanding,
because  their  effect  was  antidilutive. No adjustments  were  made  to  share
information in the calculation of earnings per share for discontinued operations
and extraordinary items.

14.  RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

      In  fiscal  1999,  we recorded $6,374 of restructuring  charges.  Of  this
amount,  $500  was recorded at our corporate office for severance  benefits  and
$348  was  recorded at our aerospace distribution segment for the  write-off  of
building  improvements from premises vacated. The remainder, $5,526 was recorded
as  a  result  of the Kaynar Technologies initial integration in  our  aerospace
fasteners segment, i.e. for severance benefits ($3,932), for product integration
costs  incurred as of June 30, 1999 ($1,334), and for the write  down  of  fixed
assets  ($260). All costs classified as restructuring were the direct result  of
formal  plans to close plants and to terminate employees. The costs included  in
restructuring were predominately nonrecurring in nature.  Other than a reduction
in  our  existing  cost  structure  and  manufacturing  capacity,  none  of  the
restructuring charges resulted in future increases in earnings or represented an
accrual  of  future costs. As of June 30, 1999, approximately one-third  of  the
integration plans has been executed. We expect to incur additional restructuring
charges  for  product  integration costs during the next twelve  months  at  our
aerospace fasteners segment. We anticipate that our integration process will  be
substantially completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2000.

15.   EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS

      In fiscal 1999, we recognized an extraordinary loss of $4,153, net of tax,
to  write-off  the  remaining  deferred loan  fees  associated  with  the  early
extinguishment of our indebtedness in connection with our acquisition of  Kaynar
Technologies (See Note 8).

      In fiscal 1998, we recognized an extraordinary loss of $6,730, net of tax,
to  write-off  the  remaining deferred loan fees and  original  issue  discounts
associated with early extinguishment of our indebtedness when we repaid all  our
public debt and refinanced our credit facilities.

16.   RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

      We  paid  for  a  chartered aircraft used from time to time  for  business
related  travel.  The owner of the chartered aircraft is a company 51% owned  by
an  immediate  family member of Mr. Jeffrey Steiner. Cost for such flights  that
are  charged  to us are comparable to those charged in arm's length transactions
between unaffiliated third parties'.

      We  pay  for  a chartered helicopter used from time to time  for  business
related  travel.  The owner of the chartered helicopter is a company  controlled
by  Mr.  Jeffrey  Steiner. Cost for such flights that  are  charged  to  us  are
comparable  to  those charged in arm's length transactions between  unaffiliated
third parties'.

      In 1999, we entered into a $300 loan agreement with one of our senior vice
president's  who  was  relocated.  At June 30,  1999,  a  balance  of  $200  was
outstanding.

17.  LEASES

     Operating Leases

      We  hold  certain of our facilities and equipment under long-term  leases.
The  minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases with lease
terms in excess of one year, for each of the five years following June 30, 1999,
are  as  follows: $5,200 for 2000, $3,549 for 2001, $2,784 for 2002, $2,043  for
2003,  and  $1,164 for 2004.  Rental expense on operating leases from continuing
operations  for  fiscal  1999,  1998 and 1997 was $9,485,  $8,610,  and  $4,928,
respectively.

     Capital Leases

      Minimum  commitments  under capital leases for  each  of  the  five  years
following June 30, 1999, are $1,324 for 2000, $808 for 2001, $498 for 2002, $380
for  2003, and $254 for 2004, respectively. At June 30, 1999, the present  value
of capital lease obligations was $2,874. At June 30, 1999, capital assets leased
and included in property, plant, and equipment consisted of:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                                 <C>
Land                              $     86
Buildings and improvements           2,180
Machinery and equipment              6,282
Furniture and fixtures                  33
Less: Accumulated depreciation      (2,250)
                                    $6,331
</TABLE>

     Leasing Operations

      In  fiscal 1999, we began leasing retail space to tenants under  operating
leases  at  completed  sections  of  a shopping  center  we  are  developing  in
Farmingdale,  New York. Rental revenue is recognized as lease payments  are  due
from  tenants  and  the related costs are amortized over their estimated  useful
life.  Accumulated depreciation on finished sections of the shopping center  and
leased to others is $100 at June 30, 1999. The future minimum lease payments  to
be received from noncancellable operating leases on June 30, 1999 were $3,246 in
2000, $4,678 in 2001, $4,678 in 2002, $4,684 in 2003, $4,706 in 2004 and $47,350
thereafter.  Subsequent  to  June 30, 1999, we have  entered  into  several  new
agreements to lease additional retail space at our shopping center.

18.  CONTINGENCIES

     Government Claims

      The  Corporate Administrative Contracting Officer (the "ACO"), based  upon
the  advice  of  the  United States Defense Contract Audit Agency,  has  made  a
determination  that  a  former subsidiary of ours did not  comply  with  Federal
Acquisition Regulations and Cost Accounting Standards in accounting for (i)  the
1985  reversion  of certain assets of terminated defined benefit pension  plans,
and  (ii)  pension costs upon the closing of segments of our former subsidiaries
business.  The ACO has directed us to prepare cost impact proposals relating  to
such  plan terminations and segment closings and, following receipt of such cost
impact proposals, may seek adjustments to contract prices.  The ACO alleges that
substantial  amounts  will  be due if such adjustments  are  made,  however,  an
estimate  of the possible loss or range of loss from the ACO's assertion  cannot
be made.  We believe that management of our former subsidiary properly accounted
for the asset reversions in accordance with applicable accounting standards.  We
intend  to enter into mediation with the government to attempt to resolve  these
pension accounting issues.

     Environmental Matters

      Our  operations are subject to stringent government imposed  environmental
laws  and regulations concerning, among other things, the discharge of materials
into  the environment and the generation, handling, storage, transportation  and
disposal  of  waste and hazardous materials.  To date, such laws and regulations
have  not  had  a  material  effect  on  our  financial  condition,  results  of
operations,  or  net  cash flows of us, although we have expended,  and  can  be
expected  to  expend  in the future, significant amounts  for  investigation  of
environmental  conditions and installation of environmental control  facilities,
remediation  of environmental conditions and other similar matters, particularly
in our aerospace fasteners segment.

      In  connection with our plans to dispose of certain real estate,  we  must
investigate  environmental conditions and we may be  required  to  take  certain
corrective  action prior or pursuant to any such disposition.  In  addition,  we
have  identified  several  areas of potential contamination  at  or  from  other
facilities owned, or previously owned, by us, that may require us to  either  to
take  corrective action or to contribute to a clean-up.  We are also a defendant
in   certain  lawsuits  and  proceedings  seeking  to  require  us  to  pay  for
investigation or remediation of environmental matters and we have  been  alleged
to  be a potentially responsible party at various "superfund" sites.  We believe
that  we have recorded adequate reserves in our financial statements to complete
such  investigation  and  take  any necessary corrective  actions  or  make  any
necessary  contributions.  No  amounts have been  recorded  as  due  from  third
parties,  including  insurers, or set off against, any environmental  liability,
unless  such  parties  are contractually obligated to  contribute  and  are  not
disputing such liability.

     As of June 30, 1999, the consolidated total of our recorded liabilities for
environmental  matters  was approximately $10.3 million, which  represented  the
estimated  probable exposure for these matters.  It is reasonably possible  that
our total exposure for these matters could be approximately $17.5 million.

     Other Matters

      On  January 12, 1999, AlliedSignal made indemnification claims against  us
for  $18.9  million,  arising from the disposition  to  AlliedSignal  of  Banner
Aerospace's hardware business. We believe that the amount of the claim is far in
excess of any amount that AlliedSignal is entitled to recover from us.

      We  are  involved in various other claims and lawsuits incidental  to  our
business, some of which involve substantial amounts.  We, either on our  own  or
through our insurance carriers, are contesting these matters.  In the opinion of
management,  the  ultimate resolution of the legal proceedings, including  those
mentioned  above,  will  not have a material adverse  effect  on  our  financial
condition, future results of operations or net cash flows.

19.  BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

      In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 131, "Disclosures  about  Segments  of  an
Enterprise and Related Information." SFAS 131 supersedes Statement of  Financial
Accounting  Standards  No. 14 "Financial Reporting for Segments  of  a  Business
Enterprise" and requires that a public company report certain information  about
its  reportable  operating  segments in annual and  interim  financial  reports.
Generally, financial information is required to be reported on the basis that is
used  internally for evaluating segment performance and deciding how to allocate
resources to segments.  We adopted SFAS 131 in fiscal 1999.

      We  reports  in  two principal business segments. The aerospace  fasteners
segment  includes  the manufacture of high performance specialty  fasteners  and
fastening systems.  The aerospace distribution segment distributes a wide  range
of  aircraft  parts and related support services to the aerospace industry.  The
results  of Fairchild Technologies, which is primarily engaged in the  designing
and  manufacturing of capital equipment and systems for recordable compact  disc
and   advance  semiconductor  manufacturing,  were  previously  reported   under
Corporate  and  Other,  along  with  the  results  of  two  smaller  operations.
Fairchild  Technologies  is  now  recorded in  discontinued  operations.     Our
financial data by business segment is as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                      1999     1998     1997
<S>                                 <C>       <C>       <C>
 Sales:
     Aerospace Fasteners            $442,722 $387,236 $269,026
     Aerospace Distribution          168,336  358,431  411,765
     Corporate and Other               6,264    5,760   15,185
     Eliminations (a)                      -  (10,251) (15,213)
 Total Sales                        $617,322 $741,176 $680,763
 Operating Income (Loss):
     Aerospace Fasteners            $ 38,956 $ 32,722 $ 17,390
     Aerospace Distribution          (40,003)  20,330   30,891
     Corporate and Other             (44,864)  (7,609) (14,782)
 Operating Income (Loss) (b)        $(45,911)$ 45,443 $ 33,499
 Capital Expenditures:
     Aerospace Fasteners            $ 27,414 $ 31,221 $  8,964
     Aerospace Distribution            1,951    3,812    4,787
     Corporate and Other                 777      996    1,263
 Total Capital Expenditures         $ 30,142 $ 36,029 $ 15,014
 Depreciation and Amortization:
     Aerospace Fasteners            $ 22,459 $ 16,260 $ 15,506
     Aerospace Distribution            1,871    3,412    4,139
     Corporate and Other               1,327    1,201    1,170
 Total Depreciation and
Amortization                        $ 25,657 $ 20,873 $ 20,815
 Identifiable Assets at June 30:
     Aerospace Fasteners            $655,714 $427,927 $346,533
     Aerospace Distribution          291,281  452,397  428,436
     Corporate and Other             381,791  276,935  277,697

 Total Identifiable Assets       $1,328,786 $1,157,259 $1,052,666

(a)  - Represents intersegment sales from our aerospace fasteners segment to our
  aerospace distribution segment.
(b)  - Fiscal 1999 results include an inventory impairment charges of $41,465 in
  the  aerospace distribution segment, costs relating to acquisitions of $23,604
  and restructuring charges of $5,526 in the aerospace fasteners segment, $348
  in the aerospace distribution segment, and $500 at corporate.
</TABLE>

20.  FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES

Our  operations  are located primarily in the United States and Europe.   Inter-
area  sales are not significant to the total sales of any geographic area.   Our
financial data by geographic area is as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                       1999     1998     1997
<S>                                  <C>      <C>      <C>
Sales by Geographic Area:
    United States                    $440,447 $613,325 $580,453
    Europe                            176,315  127,851  100,310
    Australia                             417        -        -
    Other                                 143        -        -
Total Sales                          $617,322 $741,176 $680,763
Operating Income (Loss) by
Geographic Area:
    United States                    $(66,245)$ 28,575 $ 27,489
    Europe                             19,989   16,868    6,010
    Australia                             331        -        -
    Other                                  14        -        -
Total Operating Income (Loss)        $(45,911)$ 45,443 $ 33,499
Identifiable Assets by Geographic
Area at June 30:
    United States                  $1,011,993 $903,054 $855,233
    Europe                            306,156  254,205  197,433
    Australia                          10,176        -        -
    Other                                 461        -        -
Total Identifiable Assets          $1,328,786 $1,157,259 $1,052,666
</TABLE>

      Export  sales are defined as sales by our domestic operations to customers
in foreign countries. Export sales were as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                       1999     1998     1997
<S>                                  <C>      <C>      <C>
Export Sales
     Europe                          $ 42,891 $ 68,515 $ 48,187
     Japan                             14,147   12,056   19,819
     Canada                            12,460   16,426   17,797
     Asia (excluding Japan)             6,337   19,744   21,221
     South America                      3,556   11,038    4,414
     Other                             14,694   10,340   11,493
Total Export Sales                   $ 94,085 $138,119 $122,931
</TABLE>

21.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

The  following  table  of quarterly financial data has been  prepared  from  our
financial records, without audit, and reflects all adjustments which are, in the
opinion  of our management, necessary for a fair presentation of the results  of
operations for the interim periods presented.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Fiscal 1999 quarters ended              Sept. 27  Dec. 27 March 28June 30
<S>                                     <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>
Net sales                               $148,539 $151,181$146,352 $171,250
Gross profit                              34,672   18,062  36,890   22,805
Earnings (loss) from continuing            1,190   (8,827) 20,383 (36,253)
    per basic share                         0.05    (0.40)   0.93   (1.46)
    per diluted share                       0.05    (0.40)   0.92   (1.46)
Loss from disposal of discontinued             -   (9,180)(19,694) (2,475)
operations, net
    per basic share                            -    (0.42)  (0.90)  (0.10)
    per diluted share                          -    (0.42)  (0.89)  (0.10)
Extraordinary items, net                       -        -       -  (4,153)
    Per basic share                            -        -       -   (0.17)
    Per diluted share                          -        -       -   (0.17)
Net earnings (loss)                        1,190  (18,007)    689 (42,881)
    per basic share                         0.05    (0.82)   0.03   (1.73)
    per diluted share                       0.05    (0.82)   0.03   (1.73)
Market price range of Class A Stock:
High                                      23 7/8   16 1/4 16 3/16       15
Low                                       12 3/8   10 3/8  10 1/2       10
Close                                     13 5/8   13 7/8 10 11/16   12 3/4
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Fiscal 1998 quarters ended              Sept. 28  Dec. 28 March 29June 30
<S>                                     <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>
 Net sales                              $194,362 $208,616$164,164 $174,034
 Gross profit                             46,329   56,822  37,790   45,565
 Earnings (loss) from continuing
operations                                 1,229  (4,605)  50,418    5,357
    per basic share                         0.07   (0.27)    2.52     0.25
    per diluted share                       0.07   (0.27)    2.41     0.24
Loss from discontinued operations, net      (737)  (1,945) (1,578)     (36)
    Per basic share                        (0.04)   (0.11)  (0.08)    0.24
    Per diluted share                      (0.04)   (0.11)  (0.08)    0.44
Gain (loss) from disposal of
discontinued operations, net                   -   29,974  46,548  (16,805)
    Per basic share                            -     1.75    2.32    (0.78)
    Per diluted share                          -     1.75    2.23    (0.76)
Extraordinary items, net                       -   (3,024) (3,701)      (5)
    Per basic share                            -    (0.18)  (0.18)       -
    Per diluted share                          -    (0.18)  (0.18)       -
Net earnings (loss)                          492   20,400  91,687  (11,489)
    Per basic share                         0.03     1.19    4.58    (0.53)
    per diluted share                       0.03     1.19    4.38    (0.52)
Market price range of Class A Stock:
High                                     28  3/8 28 11/16      25       23
Low                                           17 19  5/16 19  7/16 18  3/16
Close                                    26  7/8  21  1/2 21  1/4 20  3/16
</TABLE>

      Gross  profit was reduced for inventory impairment adjustments of  $19,320
and  $22,145  in  the  second and fourth quarter of fiscal  1999,  respectively,
relating  to the disposition of Solair and the potential disposition  of  Dallas
Aerospace. Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued operations includes losses of
$9,180,  $19,694, and $2,475 in the second, third and fourth quarters of  fiscal
1999,  respectively, and $22,352 and $13,891 in the third and fourth quarter  of
fiscal  1998,  respectively, resulting from the estimated loss  on  disposal  of
Fairchild  Technologies.  Gain  (loss) on disposal  of  discontinued  operations
includes  gains (losses) of $29,974, $68,900, and $(2,914) in the second,  third
and  fourth  quarter of fiscal 1998, respectively, from the Shared  Technologies
Fairchild divestiture. Earnings from discontinued operations, net, includes  the
results  of  Fairchild  Technologies and Shared  Technologies  Fairchild  (until
disposition)  in  each  quarter.  Extraordinary  items  relate  to   the   early
extinguishment of our debt.

22.  CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)

      The following unaudited financial statements separately show The Fairchild
Corporation and the subsidiaries of The Fairchild Corporation.  These  financial
statements  are provided to fulfill public reporting requirements and separately
present  guarantors of the 10 3/4% senior subordinated notes due 2009 issued  by
The  Fairchild Corporation (the "Parent Company").  The guarantors are primarily
composed  of  our  domestic subsidiaries, excluding Fairchild Technologies,  the
equity  investment  in Nacanco, a real estate development venture,  and  certain
other subsidiaries.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                      CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                        FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1999
                         Parent                        Elimi-  Fairchild
                         Company Guarantors Guarantors nations Historical
<S>                      <C>     <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Net Sales                $     -  $448,495 $169,720  $  (893)  $617,322
Costs and expenses
  Cost of sales                -   381,912  123,874     (893)   504,893
  Selling, general &
 administrative            8,114   113,167   24,168         -   145,449
  Restructuring                -     6,374        -         -     6,374
  Amortization of
 goodwill                    248     5,228    1,041         -     6,517
                           8,362   506,681  149,083      (893)  663,233
  Operating income
 (loss)                   (8,362)  (58,186)  20,637         -   (45,911)

Net interest expense      27,130    (4,283)   7,499         -    30,346
Investment (income)
 loss, net                     -   (39,800)       -         -   (39,800)
Earnings(loss) before
 taxes                   (35,492)  (14,103)  13,138         -   (36,457)
Income tax (provision)
 benefit                  21,481    (6,936)  (1,300)        -    13,245
Equity in earnings of
 affiliates and
 subsidiaries            (44,998)     (516)   1,344    45,965     1,795
Minority interest              -    (2,090)       -         -    (2,090)
Earnings (loss) from
 continuing operations   (59,009)  (23,645)  13,182    45,965   (23,507)
Earnings (loss) from
 disposal of discontinued
 operations                    -         -  (31,349)        -   (31,349)
Extraordinary items            -    (4,153)       -         -    (4,153)
Net earnings (loss)     $(59,009) $(27,798)$(18,167)  $45,965  $(59,009)


</TABLE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                           CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET
                                  JUNE 30, 1999

                        Parent              Non                    Fairchild
                        Company  Guarantors Guarantors Eliminatins Historical
<S>                     <C>      <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Cash                    $     27  $ 41,793  $ 13,040   $     -    $  54,860
Short-term investments        71    13,023         -         -       13,094
Accounts Receivable (including
 intercompany), less
 allowances                  549    52,929    76,643         -      130,121
Inventory, net              (182)  145,080    45,341         -      190,239
Prepaid and other current
 assets                    1,297    69,000     3,629         -       72,926
Total current assets       1,762   321,825   138,653         -      462,240
Investment in
 Subsidiaries            841,744         -         -  (841,744)           -
Net fixed assets             611   137,852    45,602         -      184,065
Net assets held for sale       -    21,245         -         -       21,245
Investment if affiliates   1,300    13,135    17,356         -       31,791
Goodwill                   5,533   402,595    39,594         -      447,722
Deferred loan costs       13,029        26        22         -       13,077
Prepaid pension assets         -    63,958         -         -       63,958
Real estate investment         -         -    83,791         -       83,791
Long-term investments          -    15,844         -         -       15,844
Other assets              16,244   (11,865)      674         -        5,053
Total assets            $880,223  $964,615  $325,692 $(842,744)  $1,328,786

Bank notes payable &
current maturities of
debt                    $  2,250  $  2,548  $ 24,062 $       -   $   28,860
Accounts payable
(including inter-
company)                     972    12,824    58,475         -       72,271
Other accrued expenses     7,272    99,669    14,195         -      121,136
Net current liabilities
of discontinued operations     -         -    10,999         -       10,999
Total liabilities         10,494   115,041   107,731         -      233,266

Long-term debt, less
current maturities       480,850     9,908     4,525         -      495,283
Other long-term
liabilities                  405    18,138     7,361         -       25,904
Noncurrent income taxes  (19,026)  140,749       238         -      121,961
Retiree health care
liabilities                    -    40,189     4,624         -       44,813
Minority interest in
subsidiaries                   -         9        50         -           59
Total liabilities        472,723   324,034   124,529         -      921,286

Class A common
stock                      2,775       200     5,085    (5,085)       2,975
Class B common
stock                        262         -         -         -          262
Paid-in-capital            2,138   226,900   263,058  (263,058)     229,038
Retained earnings
(deficit)                477,191   413,483   (65,043) (573,601)     252,030
Cumulative other
comprehensive income       (764)        (2)   (1,937)        -       (2,703)
Treasury stock, at cost (74,102)         -         -         -      (74,102)
Total stockholders'
equity                  407,500    640,581   201,163  (841,744)     407,500
Total liabilities &
stockholders' equity   $880,223   $964,615  $325,692 $(841,744)  $1,328,786
</TABLE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                     CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                        FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1999

                         Parent               Non          Elimina- Fairchild
                         Company   Guarantors Guarantors    tions   Historical
<S>                      <C>       <C>        <C>         <C>       <C>
Cash Flows from Operating
Activities:
Net earnings (loss)      $(59,009)  $(27,798)  $(18,167)  $ 45,965 $(59,009)
Depreciation &
amortization                  127     17,610      7,920          -   25,657
Amortization of
deferred loan fees          1,100          -          -          -    1,100
Accretion of discount
on long-term
liabilities                 5,270          -          -          -    5,270
Extraordinary items net
of cash paid                    -      6,389          -          -    6,389
Provision for
restructuring                   -      3,774          -          -    3,774
Loss on sale of
PP&E                            -        307         93          -      400
Distributed earnings of
affiliates                      -      1,460      1,973          -    3,433
Minority interest               -      2,826       (736)         -    2,090
Change in assets and
liabilities                15,030     52,898     (3,058)   (45,965)  18,905
Non-cash charges and
working capital changes
of discontinued operations      -          -     15,259          -   15,259
Net cash (used for) provided
by operating activities   (37,482)    57,466      3,284          -   23,268
Cash Flows from Investing Activities:
Proceeds received from investment
securities                      -    189,379          -          -  189,379
Purchase of PP&E              (61)   (19,162)   (10,919)         -  (30,142)
Proceeds from sale of PP&E      -        656        188          -      844
Equity investment in
affiliates                    630     (8,308)         -          -   (7,678)
Gross proceeds from
divestiture of
subsidiary                      -     60,396          -          -   60,396
Acquisition of subsidiaries,
net of cash acquired     (221,467)   (45,287)    (7,673)         - (274,427)
Change in real estate
investment                      -          -    (40,351)         -  (40,351)
Change in net assets
held for sale                   -      3,134          -          -    3,134
Investing activities of
discontinued operations         -          -       (312)         -     (312)
Net cash (used for) provided
by investing activities  (220,898)   180,808    (59,067)         -  (99,157)
Cash Flows from Financing Activities:
Proceeds from issuance of
debt                      483,100     (3,241)     3,363         -   483,222
Debt repayment
(including intercompany),
net                      (225,000)   (213,187)   58,104         -  (380,083)
Issuance of Class A
common stock                  126       (126)         -         -         -
Proceeds from exercised
stock options                 181          -          -         -       181
Purchase of treasury
stock                           -    (22,102)         -         -   (22,102)
Net cash (used for)
provided by financing
activities                258,407   (238,656)    61,467         -    81,218
Exchange rate effect
on cash                         -          -        (70)        -       (70)
Net change in cash             27       (382)     5,614         -     5,259
Cash, beginning of
the year                        -     42,175      7,426         -    49,601
Cash, end of the
year                    $      27   $ 41,793   $ 13,040    $    -  $ 54,860
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                      CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                        FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1998

                         Parent            Non     Elimina-   Fairchild
                        Company Guarantors Guarantors tion    Historical
<S>                             <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Net Sales               $     -  $613,324 $138,807 $(10,955)  $741,176
Cost and expenses
  Cost of sales               -   464,942  100,683  (10,955)   554,670
  Selling, general &
 administrative           3,516   112,447   19,631        -    135,594
  Amortization of
 goodwill                   147     4,247    1,075        -      5,469

                          3,663   581,636  121,389  (10,955)   695,733
  Operating income
 (loss)                  (3,663)   31,688   17,418        -     45,443

Net interest expense     24,048    14,094    4,573        -     42,715
Investment (income)
loss, net                  (208)    3,570        -        -      3,362
Nonrecurring income
on disposition of
subsidiary                    -  (124,028)       -        -   (124,028)
Earnings (loss) before
taxes                   (27,503)  138,052   12,845        -    123,394
Income tax (provision)
benefit                  10,580   (54,384)  (3,470)        -   (47,274)
Equity in earnings
of affiliates and
subsidiaries            118,013       140    3,044  (118,626)    2,571
Minority interest             -   (26,292)       -         -   (26,292)
Earnings (loss) from
continuing operations   101,090    57,516   12,419 (118,626)    52,399
Earnings (loss) from
discontinued
operations                    -     2,348  (6,644)         -    (4,296)
Earnings (loss) from
disposal of
discontinued operations       -    95,018 (35,301)         -    59,717
Extraordinary items           -    (6,730)      -          -    (6,730)
Net earnings
(loss)                 $101,090  $148,152$(29,526) $(118,626) $101,090
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                           CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET
                                  JUNE 30, 1998

                         Parent             Non        Elimina-  Fairchild
                         Company Guarantors Guarantors tions     Historical
<S>                     <C>      <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>
Cash                    $     -  $ 42,175  $ 7,426   $     -  $ 49,601
Short-term investments       71     3,891        -         -     3,962
Accounts Receivable
(including intercompany),
less allowances             400    74,158   45,726         -   120,284
Inventory, net                -   183,164   34,318         -   217,482
Prepaid and other
current assets           (1,230)   48,145    6,166         -    53,081
Net current assets of
discontinued operations       -         -   11,613         -    11,613
  Total current assets     (759)  351,533  105,249         -   456,023
Investment in
Subsidiaries            627,634         -        -  (627,634)        -
Net fixed assets            677    77,678   40,608         -   118,963
Net assets held
for sale                      -    23,789        -         -    23,789
Net noncurrent of
discontinued operations       -         -    8,541         -     8,541
Investment in affiliates    963     7,276   19,329         -    27,568
Goodwill                 14,333   120,253   33,721         -   168,307
Deferred loan cost        5,168     1,194        -         -     6,362
Prepaid pension assets        -    61,643        -         -    61,643
Real estate investment        -       214   43,226         -    43,440
Long-term investments         -   235,435        -         -   235,435
Other assets             15,863    (8,833)     158         -     7,188
  Total assets         $663,879  $870,182 $250,832 $(627,634)$1,157,259
Bank notes payable &
current maturities
of debt                $  2,250  $      - $ 18,415 $       - $  20,665
Accounts payable
(including intercompany)    124    11,197   42,538         -    53,859
Other accrued expenses   10,165    94,453   16,436         -   121,054
  Total current
 liabilities              12,539   105,650   77,389         -   195,578
Long-term debt, less
current maturities       222,750    67,300    5,352         -   295,402
Other long-term
liabilities                  470    16,428    6,869         -    23,767
Noncurrent income
tax                      (45,439)  140,262      353         -    95,176
Retiree health care
liabilities                    -    38,677    3,426         -    42,103
Minority interest in
subsidiaries                   -    31,674        -         -    31,674
  Total liabilities      190,320   399,991   93,389         -   683,700
Class A common stock       2,467       200    3,084   (3,084)     2,667
Class B common stock         263         -        -         -       263
Paid-in-capital          (29,476)  224,588  200,656 (200,656)   195,112
Retained earnings        513,204   265,436 (43,707) (423,894)   311,039

Cumulative other
comprehensive
income                      (761)   19,737  (2,590)        -    16,386
Treasury stock, at cost  (12,138)  (39,770)      -         -   (51,908)
  Total stockholders'
 equity                  473,559   470,191 157,443  (627,634)   473,559
Total liabilities
and stockholders'
equity                  $663,879  $870,182 $250,832 $(627,634) $1,157,259
</TABLE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                     CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                        FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1998
                         Parent             Non     Elimina-  Fairchild
                         Company Guarantors Guarantors tion   Historical
<S>                     <C>      <C>      <C>       <C>        <C>
Cash Flows from Operating Activities:
Net earnings (loss)     $101,090 $148,152 $(29,526) $(118,626) $101,090
Depreciation &
amortization                  72   14,939    5,862          -    20,873
Amortization of
deferred loan fees         2,406        -        -          -     2,406
Accretion of discount
on long-term
liabilities                3,766        -        -          -     3,766
Net gain on disposition
of subsidiaries                - (124,041)       -          -  (124,041)
Net gain on sale
of discontinued
operations                     - (132,787)       -          -  (132,787)
Extraordinary items net
of cash paid                   -   10,347        -          -    10,347
Loss on sale of PP&E           -      147       99          -       246
Distributed earnings
of affiliates                  -      547    1,178          -     1,725
Minority interest              -   26,890     (598)         -    26,292
Change in assets
and liabilities         (187,408)  64,276   (2,431)   118,626    (6,937)
Non-cash charges and
working capital changes
of discontinued
operations                     -        -   11,789          -    11,789
Net cash (used for)
provided by operating
activities               (80,074)   8,470  (13,627)         -   (85,231)
Cash Flows from Investing Activities:
Proceeds used for
investment securities          -   (7,287)       -          -    (7,287)
Purchase of PP&E               -  (30,220)  (5,809)         -   (36,029)
Proceeds from sale
of PP&E                        -      336        -          -       336
Equity investment in
affiliates                  (141)  (4,202)       -          -    (4,343)
Minority interest in
subsidiaries                   -  (26,383)       -          -   (26,383)
Acquisition of subsidiaries,
net of cash acquired           -  (25,445)  (7,350)         -   (32,795)
Net proceeds from sale
of discontinued
operations                     -  167,987        -          -   167,987
Change in real estate
investment                     -        -  (17,262)         -   (17,262)
Change in net assets
held for sale                  -    2,140        -          -     2,140
Investing activities of
discontinued operations        -        -   (2,750)         -    (2,750)
Net cash (used for)
provided by investing
activities                  (141)  76,926  (33,171)         -    43,614
Cash Flows from Financing Activities:
Proceeds from issuance
of debt                  225,000   50,523        -          -   275,523
Debt repayment (including
intercompany), net      (198,867)(106,899)  47,752          -  (258,014)
Issuance of Class A
common stock              53,848      193        -          -    54,041
Financing activities
of discontinued
operations                     -        -    2,538          -     2,538
Net cash provided by (used)
for financing
  Activities              79,981  (56,183)  50,290          -    74,088
Exchange rate effect
on cash                        -        -   (2,290)         -    (2,290)
Net change in cash          (234)  29,213    1,202          -    30,181
Cash, beginning of
the year                     234   12,962    6,224          -    19,420
Cash, end of year        $     -  $42,175   $7,426     $    -   $49,601
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                      CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                        FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1997
                        Parent             Non      Elimina- Fairchild
                        Company Guarantors Guarantors tions  Historical
<S>                     <C>       <C>     <C>       <C>       <C>
Net Sales               $     -  $593,819  $90,243  $(3,299)  $680,763
Costs and Expense:
  Cost of sales               -   441,534   61,184   (3,299)   499,419
  Selling, general &
 administrative            3,925   117,739   21,367         -   143,031
  Amortization of
 goodwill                    130     4,215      469         -     4,814

                           4,055   563,488   83,020   (3,299)   647,264
  Operating income
 (loss)                   (4,055)   30,331    7,223         -    33,499

Net interest expense      25,252    21,556      873         -    47,681
Investment income, net       (16)   (6,635)       -         -    (6,651)
Nonrecurring income
on disposition of
subsidiary                     -    (2,528)       -         -    (2,528)
Earnings (loss) before
taxes                    (29,291)   17,938    6,350         -    (5,003)
Income tax (provision)
benefit                   15,076    (8,263)     531         -     7,344
Equity in earnings
of affiliates and
subsidiaries              15,546     (528)    3,037  (15,066)     2,989
Minority interest              -   (3,514)        -        -    (3,514)
Earnings (loss) from
continuting operations     1,331     5,633    9,918  (15,066)     1,816
Earnings (loss) from
discontinued
operations                     -     3,149   (3,634)       -       (485)
Net earnings (loss)     $  1,331  $  8,782  $ 6,284 $(15,066)    $1,331
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                     CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                        FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1997

                         Parent             Non      Elimina- Fairchild
                         Company Guarantors Guarantors tions  Historical
<S>                      <C>      <C>       <C>    <C>         <C>
Cash Flows from Operating Activities:
Net earnings (loss)      $ 1,331  $ 8,782   $6,284 $(15,066)   $ 1,331
Depreciation &
amoritzation                 179   15,356    5,280         -    20,815
Amortization of deferred
loan fees                  2,847         -        -         -     2,847
Accretion of discount on
long-term liabilities      4,963         -        -         -     4,963
Gain on sale of PP&E           -      (72)        -         -      (72)
(Undistributed)
distributed earnings of
affiliates                     -   (1,434)      379         -   (1,055)
Minority interest              -     2,896      618         -     3,514
Change in assets
and liabilities          (23,591) (102,350)   2,412    15,066  (108,463)
Non-cash charges and
working capital changes
of discontinued
operations                     -         - (17,201)         -  (17,201)
Net cash used for
operating activities     (14,271)  (76,822) (2,228)         -  (93,321)
Cash Flows from Investing Activities:
Proceeds used for
investment securities          -   (12,951)       -         -  (12,951)
Purchase of PP&E               -   (12,371)  (2,643)         -  (15,014)
Proceeds from sale of
PP&E                           -       213        -         -       213
Equity investment
in affiliates              2,092    (3,841)        -         -   (1,749)
Minority interest in
subsidiaries                   -    (1,610)        -         -   (1,610)
Acquisitin of subsidiaries,
net of cash acquired           -         - (55,916)         -  (55,916)
Net proceeds from sale
of discontinued
operations                     -   173,719        -         -   173,719
Change in real estate
investment                     -         -  (6,737)         -   (6,737)
Change in net assets
held for sale                  -       385        -         -       385
Investing activities of
discontinued operations        -         -  (7,102)         -   (7,102)
Net cash (used for)
provided by investing
activities                 2,092   143,544 (72,398)         -    73,238
Cash Flows from Financing Activities:
Proceeds from issuance
of debt                    9,400   144,894        -         -   154,294
Debt repayment(including
intercompany), net             -  (229,874)  74,274         -  (155,600)
Issuance of Class A
common stock               1,126          -        -         -     1,126
Financing activities of
discontinued operations        -         -  (1,275)         -   (1,275)
Net cash (used for)
provided by financing
activities                10,526  (84,980)   72,999         -   (1,455)
Exchange rate effect
on cash                        -        -    1,309         -     1,309
Net change in cash        (1,653) (18,258)    (318)         -  (20,229)
Cash, beginning of
the year                   1,887   31,220    6,542         -    39,649
Cash, end of year       $    234  $12,962  $ 6,224   $     -  $ 19,420
</TABLE>


23.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

On  July  29, 1999, we sold our 31.9% interest in Nacanco Paketleme to  American
National  Can  Group, Inc. for approximately $48.2 million. We  also  agreed  to
provide  consulting  services over a three-year period,  at  an  annual  fee  of
approximately  $1.5  million. We used the net proceeds from the  disposition  to
reduce our indebtedness.

     In  September 1999, we have expressed our intent to sell Dallas  Aeropsace,
Inc. to a prospective acquirer. If the sale is consummated we intend to use  the
proceeds  to  reduce our indebtedness or to grow our business at  our  aerospace
fastener                                                                segment.
ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

PART III

ITEM 5.  OTHER INFORMATION

Articles  have  appeared in the French press reporting an inquiry  by  a  French
magistrate  into certain allegedly improper business transactions involving  Elf
Acquitaine,  a  French petroleum company, its former chairman and various  third
parties,  including  Maurice Bidermann. In connection  with  this  inquiry,  the
magistrate  has  made inquiry into allegedly improper transactions  between  Mr.
Steiner and that petroleum company. In response to the magistrate's request that
Mr.  Steiner  appear  in  France  as a witness, Mr.  Steiner  submitted  written
statements  concerning  the  transactions and  appeared  in  person  before  the
magistrate and others. Mr. Steiner, who has been put under examination  (mis  en
examen) by the magistrate, with respect to this matter, has not been charged.

     Mr.  Steiner appeared before the Tribunal de Grande Instance  de  Paris  to
answer  a  charge of knowingly benefiting in 1990 from a misuse by Mr. Bidermann
of  corporate  assets  of Societe Generale Mobiliere et  Immobiliere,  a  French
corporation  in  which  Mr.  Bidermann  is  believed  to  have  been  the   sole
shareholder.  Mr.  Steiner was assessed a fine of two million French  Francs  in
connection  therewith.  Both  Mr.  Steiner and  the  prosecutor  (parquet)  have
appealed the decision.

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The  information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference  from
the 1999 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The  information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference  from
the 1999 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The  information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference  from
the 1999 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The  information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference  from
the                    1999                   Proxy                   Statement.
PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

The following documents are filed as part of this Report:

(a)(1)  Financial Statements.

      All  financial statements of the registrant as set forth under Item  8  of
this report on Form 10-K (see index on Page 15).

(a)(2)    Financial  Statement  Schedules  and  Report  of  Independent   Public
Accountants.


Schedule Number               Description                        Page

    I      Condensed Financial Information of Parent Company      77

    II          Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                 81


     All other schedules are omitted because they are not required.

Report of Independent Public Accountants

To The Fairchild Corporation:

We  have  audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,  the
consolidated  financial statements of The Fairchild Corporation and subsidiaries
included  in  this Form 10-K and have issued our report thereon dated  September
15,  1999.   Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion  on  the
basic  financial statements taken as a whole.  The schedules listed in the index
on the preceding page are the responsibility of the Company's management and are
presented  for  the  purpose  of  complying with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission's  rules and are not part of the basic financial  statements.   These
schedules  have been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the  audits
of  the  basic  financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly  state  in  all
material  respects  the  financial data required to  be  set  forth  therein  in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.


                    Arthur Andersen LLP


Vienna, VA
September 15, 1999
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

 SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                            THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION
              CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY
                        BALANCE SHEETS (NOT CONSOLIDATED)
                                 (In thousands)

                                            June 30,  June 30,
                  ASSETS                      1999      1998
<S>                                        <C>        <C>
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents                 $       27  $     --
Marketable Securities                             71        71
Accounts receivable                              549       400
Inventory                                       (182)       ---
Prepaid expenses and other current assets      1,297   (1,230)
Total current assets                           1,762     (759)

Property, plant and equipment, less
accumulated depreciation                         611       677
Investments in subsidiaries                  841,744   627,634
Investments and advances, affiliated
companies                                      1,300       963
Goodwill                                       5,533    14,333
Noncurrent tax assets                         19,026    45,439
Deferred loan fees                            13,029     5,168
Other assets                                  16,244    15,863
Total assets                                $899,249  $709,318

   LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
Notes payable                               $  2,250  $  2,250
Accounts payable                                 972       124
Accrued Salaries                                 497     5,929
Accrued Insurance                                213       213
Accrued Interest                               7,049     1,082
Other Accrued                                  1,990       967
Accrued Income Taxes                          (2,477)    1,974
Total current liabilities                     10,494    12,539
Long-term debt                               480,850   222,750
Other long-term liabilities                      405       470
Total liabilities                            491,749   235,759
Stockholders' equity:
Class A common stock                           2,775     2,467
Class B common stock                             262       263
Treasury stock                               (74,102)  (12,138)
Cumulative comprehensive Income                 (764)     (761)
Additional paid in capital                     2,138   (29,476)
Retained earnings                            477,191   513,204
Total stockholders' equity                   407,500   473,559
Total liabilities and stockholders' equity  $899,249  $709,318

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial
statements.
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                      Schedule I

             THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY
                    STATEMENT OF EARNINGS (NOT CONSOLIDATED)
                                 (In thousands)

                                   For the Years Ended June 30,
                                     1999     1998     1997
<S>                                <C>      <C>      <C>
Costs and Expenses:
Selling, general & administrative  $  8,114 $  3,516  $ 3,925
Amortization of goodwill                248      147      130
                                      8,362    3,663    4,055

Operating loss                       (8,362)  (3,663)  (4,055)

Net interest expense                 27,130   24,048   25,252
Investment income, net                   --      208       16
Equity in earnings of affiliates        967     (613)     480
Loss from continuing operations
before taxes                        (34,525) (28,116) (28,811)

Income tax provision (benefit)      (21,481) (10,580) (15,076)
Loss before equity in earnings
(loss) of subsidiaries              (13,044) (17,536) (13,735)

Equity in earnings (loss) of
subsidiaries                        (45,965) 118,626   15,066
Net earnings (loss)                $(59,009)$101,090  $ 1,331

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial
statements.
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                      Schedule I
                            THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION
              CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY
                   STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (NOT CONSOLIDATED)
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)


                                        For the Years Ended June 30,
                                          1999     1998     1997

<S>                                     <C>      <C>      <C>
Cash provided by (used for) operation  $(37,482)$(80,074)$(14,271)

Investing activities:
Acquisition of subsidiaries            (221,467)     --       --
Purchase of PP&E                            (61)     --       --
Equity investments in affiliates            630    (141)    2,092
Other                                        --       --       --

                                        (220,898)  (141)     2,092
Financing activities:
Proceeds from issuance of debt,
including intercompany                  483,100  225,000    9,400
Debt repayments                        (225,000)(198,867)    -
Issuance of common stock                    307   53,848    1,126
Other                                       --       --       --

                                        258,407   79,981   10,526
Net increase (decrease) in cash        $     27  $  (234) $(1,653)




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial
statements.
</TABLE>

                                                                      Schedule I

             THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY
                NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (NOT CONSOLIDATED)
                                 (In thousands)

1.  BASIS OF PRESENTATION

In  accordance  with  the requirements of Regulation S-X of the  Securities  and
Exchange  Commission,  our  financial statements are  condensed  and  omit  many
disclosures  presented in the consolidated financial statements  and  the  notes
thereto.

2. LONG-TERM DEBT
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                        June 30,  June 30,
                                          1999      1998
<S>                                    <C>        <C>
    Bank Credit Agreement              $258,100   $225,000
    10 3/4% Senior subordinated Notes
Due 2009                                225,000         --
    Total Debt                         $483,100   $225,000
    Less: Current Maturities             (2,250)    (2,250)
    Total Long-Term Debt               $480,850   $222,750
</TABLE>

     Maturities of long-term debt for the next five years are as follows: $2,250
in 2000, $2,250 in 2001, $2,250 in 2002,  $2,250 in 2003, and $2,250 in 2004.

3. DIVIDENDS FROM SUBSIDIARIES

Cash   dividends   paid  to  The  Fairchild  Corporation  by  its   consolidated
subsidiaries  were,  $47,742,  $42,100 and  $10,000  in  1999,  1998  and  1997,
respectively. In 1999, The Fairchild Corporation received dividends of its stock
with  a  fair market value of $22,102 and Banner Aerospace's stock with  a  fair
market  value of $187,424 from its subsidiaries.    We are involved  in  various
other  claims  and  lawsuits incidental to our business, some of  which  involve
substantial  amounts.  We, either on our own or through our insurance  carriers,
are  contesting these matters.  In our opinion, the ultimate resolution  of  the
legal  proceedings  will  not have a material adverse effect  on  our  financial
condition, future results of operations or net cash flows.

4.  CONTINGENCIES

We are involved in various other claims and lawsuits incidental to its business,
some of which involve substantial amounts.  We, either on our own or through our
insurance  carriers, is contesting these matters.  In the opinion of management,
the  ultimate  resolution  of the legal proceedings will  not  have  a  material
adverse  effect on our financial condition, or future results of  operations  or
net cash flows.

SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

     Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                For the Years Ended June 30,
                                  1999     1998    1997
<S>                             <C>      <C>      <C>
 Beginning balance              $  5,655 $ 6,905 $ 5,449
 Charges to cost and expenses      3,426   2,240   1,978
 Charges to other accounts (a)    (2,940) (2,642)    445
 Acquired companies                  616       -       -
 Amounts written off                (315)   (848)   (967)
 Ending Balance                 $  6,442 $ 5,655 $ 6,905

(a)   Recoveries  of  amounts  written off in prior  periods,  foreign  currency
  translation and the change in related noncurrent taxes. Fiscal 1998 includes a
  reduction of $2,801 relating to the assets disposed as a result the disposition
  of Banner Aerospace's hardware group.
</TABLE>


(a)(3)  Exhibits.

Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, and Instruments Defining Rights of Securities

3.1  Registrant's   Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  (incorporated   by
     reference to Exhibit "C" of Registrant's Proxy Statement dated October  27,
     1989).

*3.2 Registrant's By-Laws, amended and restated as of February 12, 1999.

4.1  Specimen of Class A Common Stock certificate (incorporated by reference  to
     Registration Statement No. 33-15359 on Form S-2).

4.2  Specimen of Class B Common Stock certificate (incorporated by reference  to
     Registrant's Annual Report on Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,
     1989).

4.3  Indenture  dated as of April 20, 1999, between the Company  and  Subsidiary
     Guarantors and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (relating to the  Company's
     10  3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes Due 2009) (incorporated by reference  to
     Registrant's  Registration Statement No. 333-80311 on  Form  S-4,  declared
     effective August 9, 1999).

4.4  Form  of Global Note (relating to the Company's 10 3/4% Senior Subordinated
     Notes  Due  2009)  (incorporated by reference to Registrant's  Registration
     Statement No. 333-80311 on Form S-4, declared effective August 9, 1999).

4.5  Registration  Rights Agreement, dated April 15, 1999, between  the  Company
     and  Credit  Suisse  First  Boston Corporation on  behalf  of  the  Initial
     Purchasers (relating to the Company's 10 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes Due
     2009) (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Registration Statement No.
     333-80311 on Form S-4, declared effective August 9, 1999).

4.6  Purchase  Agreement, dated as of April 15, 1999, between the  Company,  the
     Subsidiary Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers (relating to the Company's
     10  3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes Due 2009) (incorporated by reference  to
     Registrant's  Registration Statement No. 333-80311 on  Form  S-4,  declared
     effective August 9, 1999).


(a)(3)    Exhibits (continued)

10.  Material Contracts

(Stock Option Plans)

10.1 1988  U.K.  Stock  Option Plan of Banner Industries, Inc. (incorporated  by
     reference  to Registrant's Annual Report on Form  10-K for the fiscal  year
     ended June 30, 1988).

10.2 Description  of  grants  of  stock options  to  non-employee  directors  of
     Registrant   (incorporated by reference to Registrant's  Annual  Report  on
     Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1988).

10.3 Amended  and  Restated 1986 Non-Qualified and Incentive Stock Option  Plan,
     dated  as  of February 9, 1998 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit  B  of
     Registrant's Proxy Statement dated October 9, 1998).

10.4 Amendment  Dated May 7, 1998 to the 1986 Non-Qualified and Incentive  Stock
     Option  Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A of Registrant's  Proxy
     Statement dated October 9, 1998).

10.5 1996 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to
     Exhibit B of Registrant's Proxy Statement dated October 7, 1996).

10.6 Stock  Option  Deferral Plan dated February 9, 1998  (for  the  purpose  of
     allowing deferral of gain upon exercise of stock options) (incorporated  by
     reference  to  Registrant's Quarterly Report on From 10-Q for  the  quarter
     ended March 29, 1998).

*10.7     Amendment dated May 21, 1999, amending the 1996 Non-Employee Directors
     Stock  Option  Plan  (for the purpose of allowing  deferral  of  gain  upon
     exercise of stock options).

(Employee Agreements)

10.8 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between Registrant and Jeffrey J.
     Steiner dated September 10, 1992 (incorporated by reference to Registrant's
     Annual Report on Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1993).

10.9 Employment  Agreement  between RHI Holdings, Inc.,  and  Jacques  Moskovic,
     dated  as  of  December 29, 1994 (incorporated by reference to Registrant's
     Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996).

10.10      Employment  Agreement  between Fairchild France,  Inc.,  and  Jacques
     Moskovic,  dated  as  of December 29, 1994 (incorporated  by  reference  to
     Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year  ended  June
     30, 1996).

10.11      Employment  Agreement between Fairchild France, Inc., Fairchild  CDI,
     S.A.,  and  Jacques Moskovic, dated as of April 18, 1997  (incorporated  by
     reference  to  the Registrant's Annual Report on From 10-K for  the  fiscal
     year ended June 30, 1995).

10.12     Letter Agreement dated September 9, 1996, between Registrant and Colin
     M.  Cohen (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on  Form
     10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997).

*10.13    Banner Aerospace, Inc. Deferred Bonus Plan, dated January 21, 1998 (as
     amended), to allow the deferral of bonuses in connection with 1998 or 1999
     Extraordinary Transactions.

10.14      Letter Agreement dated February 27, 1998, between Registrant and John
     L.  Flynn  (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly  Report  on
     From 10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 1998).

10.15      Letter  Agreement  dated February 27, 1998,  between  Registrant  and
     Donald  E.  Miller  (incorporated by reference  to  Registrant's  Quarterly
     Report on From 10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 1998).

10.16      Employment  Agreement  between Robert Edwards and  Fairchild  Holding
     Corp.,  dated  March  2,  1998 (incorporated by reference  to  Registrant's
     Quarterly Report on From 10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 1998).

10.17      Promissory Note in the amount of $100,000, issued by Robert Sharpe to
     the   Registrant,  dated  July  1,  1998  (incorporated  by  reference   to
     Registrant's Annual Report on Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,
     1998).

10.18   Promissory Note in the amount of $200,000 issued by Robert Sharpe to the
     Registrant,  dated July 1, 1998 (incorporated by reference to  Registrant's
     Annual Report on Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998).

*10.19    Officer Loan Program, dated as of February 5, 1999, lending up to
     $750,000 to officers for the purchase of Company Stock.


*10.20   Employment  Agreement between Jordan Law and Fairchild  Holding  Corp.,
     dated as of April 20, 1999.

*10.21   Employment Agreement between LeRoy A. Dack and Fairchild Holding Corp.,
     dated as of April 20, 1999.

*10.22    Director and Officer Loan Program, dated as of August 12, 1999,
     lending up to $2,000,000 to officers and directors for the purchase of
     Company Stock.

(Credit Agreements)

     Fairchild Holding Corp. Credit Agreement

10.23      Credit  Agreement dated as of March 13, 1996, among Fairchild Holding
     Corp.,  Citicorp USA, Inc. and certain financial institutions (incorporated
     by  reference  to Registrant's Annual Report on Form  10-K for  the  fiscal
     year ended June 30, 1996).

10.24     Restated and Amended Credit Agreement dated as of July 26, 1996, among
     Fairchild   Holding  Corp,  Citicorp  USA,  Inc.  and   certain   financial
     institutions  (the "FHC Credit Agreement") (incorporated  by  reference  to
     Registrant's Annual Report on Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,
     1996).

10.25      Amendment  No.  1, dated as of January 21, 1997, to  the  FHC  Credit
     Agreement  dated  as  of  March  13, 1996  (incorporated  by  reference  to
     Registrant's Quarterly Report on From 10-Q for the quarter ended March  30,
     1997).

10.26     Amendment No. 2 and Consent, dated as of February 21, 1997, to the FHC
     Credit  Agreement dated as of March 13, 1996 (incorporated by reference  to
     Registrant's Quarterly Report on From 10-Q for the quarter ended March  30,
     1997).

10.27      Amendment  No.  3,  dated  as of June 30, 1997,  to  the  FHC  Credit
     Agreement  dated  as  of  March  13, 1996  (incorporated  by  reference  to
     Registrant's Annual Report on Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,
     1997).

10.28      Second  Amended And Restated Credit Agreement dated as  of  July  18,
     1997,  to the FHC Credit Agreement dated as of March 13, 1996 (incorporated
     by  reference  to Registrant's Annual Report on Form  10-K for  the  fiscal
     year ended June 30, 1997).

     RHI Credit Agreement

10.29      Restated and Amended Credit Agreement dated as of May 27, 1996,  (the
     "RHI  Credit Agreement"), among RHI Holdings, Inc., Citicorp USA, Inc.  and
     certain  financial institutions. (incorporated by reference to Registrant's
     Annual Report on Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996).

10.30     Amendment No. 1 dated as of July 29, 1996, to the RHI Credit Agreement
     dated  as of May 27, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual
     Report on Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996).

10.31     Amendment No. 2 dated as of April 7, 1997, to the RHI Credit Agreement
     dated  as of May 27, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual
     Report on Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997).

10.32      Amendment  No.  3 dated as of September 26, 1997, to the  RHI  Credit
     Agreement  dated  as  of  May  27,  1996  (incorporated  by  reference   to
     Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  September
     28, 1997).

     Fairchild Corporation Credit Agreement

10.33     Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of December  19,
     1997,  among  RHI Holdings, Inc., Fairchild Holding Corp., the  Registrant,
     Citicorp  USA,  Inc.  and certain financial institutions  (incorporated  by
     reference  to  Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for  the  quarter
     ended December 28, 1997).

10.34      Amendment  No.  1 dated as of January 29, 1999 to Third  Amended  and
     Restated  Credit  Agreement dated as of December 19, 1997 (incorporated  by
     reference  to  Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for  the  quarter
     ended March 28, 1999).

*10.35     Credit  Agreement  dated as of April 20, 1999,  among  The  Fairchild
     Corporation  (as  Borrower),  Citicorp. USA,  Inc.  and  certain  financial
     institutions.

     Interest Rate Hedge Agreements

10.36      Interest  Rate Hedge Agreement between Registrant and Citibank,  N.A.
     dated  as  of  August 19, 1997 (incorporated by reference  to  Registrant's
     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 1997).

10.37      Amendment  dated as of December  23, 1997, to the Interest Rate Hedge
     Agreement between Registrant and Registrant and Citibank, N.A.  dated as of
     August 19, 1997(incorporated by reference to (incorporated by reference  to
     Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  December
     28, 1997).

10.38      Amendment   dated  as of January  14,  1997,  to  the  Interest  Rate
     Hedge  Agreement between Registrant  and Citibank, N.A. dated as of  August
     19,  1997  (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly  Report  on
     From 10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 1998).

(Warrants to Steiner Affiliate)

10.39      Form  Warrant  Agreement (including form of Warrant)  issued  by  the
     Company to Drexel Burnham Lambert on March 13, 1986, subsequently purchased
     by  Jeffrey  Steiner  and  subsequently assigned  to  Stinbes  Limited  (an
     affiliate  of  Jeffrey Steiner), for the purchase of Class  A  or  Class  B
     Common  Stock  (incorporated herein by reference to  Exhibit  4(c)  of  the
     Company's Registration Statement No. 33-3521 on Form S-2).

10.40     Form Warrant Agreement issued to Stinbes Limited dated as of September
     26, 1997, effective retroactively as of February 21, 1997 (incorporated  by
     reference  to  Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for  the  quarter
     ended September 28, 1997).

10.41      Extension  of  Warrant  Agreement  between  Registrant   and  Stinbes
     Limited  for 375,000 shares of Class A or Class B Common  Stock  dated   as
     of   September  26,  1997, effective retroactively as of February 21,  1997
     (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report  on  Form  10-Q
     for the quarter ended September 28, 1997).

10.42      Amendment  of Warrant Agreement dated February 9, 1998,  between  the
     Registrant  and Stinbes Limited (incorporated by reference to  Registrant's
     Quarterly Report on From 10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 1998).

10.43      Amendment  of  Warrant Agreement dated December 12,  1998,  effective
     retroactively  as  of  September 7, 1998, between  Registrant  and  Stinbes
     Limited (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on From
     10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 1999).

(Other Material Contracts)

10.44      Asset  Purchase Agreement dated as of January 23, 1996,  between  The
     Fairchild  Corporation,  RHI Holdings, Inc. and Cincinnati  Milacron,  Inc.
     (incorporated  by reference to the Registrant's Report on  Form  8-K  dated
     January 26, 1996).

10.45     Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 9, 1995 by and among
     The  Fairchild Corporation, RHI Holdings, Inc., Fairchild Industries,  Inc.
     and  Shared  Technologies, Inc. ("STI Merger Agreement")  (incorporated  by
     reference to Registrant's Report on Form 8-K dated November 9, 1995).

10.46      Amendment No. 1 to STI Merger Agreement dated as of February 2,  1996
     (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Report on Form 8-K  dated  March
     13, 1996).

10.47      Amendment No. 2 to STI Merger Agreement dated as of February 23, 1996
     (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Report on Form 8-K  dated  March
     13, 1996).

10.48      Amendment  No. 3 to STI Merger Agreement dated as of  March  1,  1996
     (incorporated  by reference to the Registrant's Report on  Form  8-K  dated
     March 13, 1996).

10.49      Voting  Agreement  dated as of July 16, 1997, between  RHI  Holdings,
     Inc.,  and Tel-Save Holdings, Inc. (regarding voting Registrant's stock  in
     Shared  Technologies  Fairchild Inc.) (incorporated  by  reference  to  the
     Registrant's Schedule 13D/A, Amendment No. 3, filed July 22, 1997).

10.50      Stock  Option Agreement dated November 20, 1997 between RHI Holdings,
     Inc.  and  Intermedia  Communications Inc. (incorporated  by  reference  to
     Schedule  13D/A, Amendment No. 4, dated as of November 25, 1997,  filed  by
     the Company on  December 1, 1997).

10.51       Stock  Purchase  Agreement  dated  November  25,  1997  between  RHI
     Holdings,   Inc.  and  Intermedia  Communications  Inc.  (incorporated   by
     reference  to   Schedule 13D/A, Amendment No. 4, dated as of  November  25,
     1997, filed by the Company on December 1, 1997).

10.52      Asset  Purchase Agreement dated as of December 8, 1997, among  Banner
     Aerospace,  Inc.  and  seven of its subsidiaries (Adams  Industries,  Inc.,
     Aerospace  Bearing  Support,  Inc., Aircraft  Bearing  Corporation,  Banner
     Distribution,  Inc.,  Burbank  Aircraft  Supply,  Inc.,  Harco,  Inc.   and
     PacAero),  AlliedSignal Inc. and AS BAR LLC (incorporated by  reference  to
     Banner Aerospace, Inc.'s Report on Form 8-K dated January 28, 1998).

10.53      Asset  Purchase Agreement dated as of December 8, 1997, among  Banner
     Aerospace, Inc. and two of its subsidiaries (PB Herndon Aerospace, Inc. and
     Banner  Aerospace Services, Inc.), AlliedSignal Inc. and  AS  BAR  PBH  LLC
     (incorporated by reference to Banner Aerospace, Inc.'s Report on  Form  8-K
     dated January 28, 1998).

10.54      Agreement  and Plan of Merger dated January 28, 1998, as  amended  on
     February  20,  1998,  and  March 2, 1998 (the "Special-T  Fasteners  Merger
     Agreement),  between  the  Company  and  the  shareholders'  of   Special-T
     Fasteners,  regarding the merger of Special-T into Fairchild  (incorporated
     by  reference to Registrant's Report on Form 8-K dated March 2, 1998, filed
     on March 12, 1998).

10.55      Third  Amendment dated September 25, 1998 to the Special-T  Fasteners
     Merger  Agreement  (incorporated by reference  to   Registrant's  Quarterly
     Report on From 10-Q for the quarter ended September 27, 1998).

10.56      Agreement  and  Plan  of Reorganization by and  among  The  Fairchild
     Corporation,  Dah  Dah,  Inc. and Kaynar Technologies  Inc.,  dated  as  of
     December   26,  1998,  regarding  the  merger  of  Kaynar  into   Fairchild
     (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
     S-4 filed on January 15, 1999).

10.57      Voting  and  Option Agreement by and among The Fairchild Corporation,
     Dah Dah, Inc., CFE Inc., and general Electric Capital Corporation dated  as
     of  December  26,  1998, regarding voting of Kaynar stock for  the  Kaynar-
     Fairchild merger (incorporated by reference to Registrant's Report on  Form
     8-K dated December 30, 1998).

10.58     Voting Agreements by and between The Fairchild Corporation and each of
     the following individuals: Jordan Law, David A. Werner, Robert L. Beers and
     LeRoy  A.  Dack,  each agreement dated as of December 26,  1998,  regarding
     voting  of  Kaynar  stock  for the Kaynar-Fairchild merger(incorporated  by
     reference to Registrant's Report on Form 8-K dated December 30, 1998).

10.59     Agreement and Plan of Merger between The Fairchild Corporation, MTA,
     Inc. and Banner Aerospace, Inc., dated as of January 11, 1999, regarding
     the merger of Banner into Fairchild (incorporated by reference to "Appendix
     A" of Registrant's Proxy Statement/Prospectus included as part of
     Registrant's Registration Statement No. 333-70673 on Form S-4 declared
     effective March 25, 1999).

*10.60    Share Purchase Agreement dated as of July 27, 1999 between a Company
     subsidiary and Jeffrey Steiner (as Sellers) and American National Can
     Group, Inc. (as Buyer), for the sale of all stock of Nacanco Paketleme A.S.
     owned by the Sellers.

(a)(3)  Exhibits (continued)

Other Exhibits

11.  Computation  of  earnings  per  share (found  at  Note  13  in  Item  8  to
     Registrant's Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal  years  ended
     June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997).

*22     List of subsidiaries of Registrant.

*23.1  Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP, independent public accountants.

*23.2  Consent of Price Waterhouse Coopers, independent public accountants.

*27     Financial Data Schedules.

99.1 Financial statements, related notes thereto and Auditors' Report of Nacanco
     Paketleme  for  the  fiscal year ended December 31, 1998  (incorporated  by
     reference to the Registrant's Report on Form 8-K filed on June 26, 1999).
- -------------------------
*Filed herewith.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

      On  April  8,  1999, the Company filed a Form 8-K to report (Item  5)  the
completion  of  the merger with Banner Aerospace, Inc. and to report  additional
losses taken at Fairchild Technologies.

      On May 5, 1999, the Company filed a Form 8-K to report the acquisition  of
Kaynar  Technologies  Inc. to report (Item 7) audited  financial  statements  of
Kaynar   Technologies  Inc.,  and  unaudited  pro  forma  consolidate  financial
statements giving effect to the acquisition of Kaynar Technologies Inc.

      On  June 25, 1999, the Company filed a Form 8-K to report (Item 5) audited
financial  statements for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and  1996  for
Nacanco Paketleme, formerly a 32% owned equity affiliate.

                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant  to  the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of  the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, we have duly caused this report to be signed on our behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                            THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION



                               By:    Colin M. Cohen
                                      Senior Vice President and
                                      Chief Financial Officer



Date:  September 28, 1999
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has  been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant,  in
their capacities and on the dates indicated.

By:       JEFFREY J. STEINER   Chairman, Chief Executive

           MICHAEL T. ALCOX   Vice President and Director   September 28,
By:            /s/                                             1999
           Michael T. Alcox

          MELVILLE R. BARLOW           Director
By:
          Melville R. Barlow

          MORTIMER M. CAPLIN           Director             September 28,
By:            /s/                                             1999
          Mortimer M. Caplin

            COLIN M. COHEN      Senior Vice President,      September 28,
By:            /s/              Chief                          1999
            Colin M. Cohen       Financial Officer and
                                       Director

             PHILIP DAVID              Director
By:
             Philip David

            ROBERT EDWARDS     Executive Vice President     September 28,
By:            /s/                                              1999
            Robert Edwards           And Director

           HAROLD J. HARRIS            Director             September 28,
By:           /s/                                                1999
           Harold J. Harris

            DANIEL LEBARD              Director             September 28,
By:             /s/                                              1999
            Daniel Lebard

         JACQUES S. MOSKOVIC     Senior Vice President      September 28,
By:             /s/                                              1999
         Jacques S. Moskovic         And Director

          HERBERT S. RICHEY            Director
By:
          Herbert S. Richey

             MOSHE SANBAR              Director             September 28,
By:              /s/                                            1999
             Moshe Sanbar

         ROBERT A. SHARPE II    Senior Vice President,
By:
         Robert A. Sharpe II    Operations and Director

           ERIC I. STEINER    President, Chief  Operating
By:
           Eric I. Steiner       Officer and Director



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>2
<TEXT>

??


=================================================================

                        CREDIT AGREEMENT
                   Dated as of April 20, 1999

                             among

                   THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION
                          as Borrower

               THE INSTITUTIONS FROM TIME TO TIME
                    PARTY HERETO AS LENDERS

               THE INSTITUTIONS FROM TIME TO TIME
                 PARTY HERETO AS ISSUING BANKS

                       CITICORP USA, INC.
                   as an Administrative Agent
                      and Collateral Agent

                       NATIONSBANK, N.A.
                   as an Administrative Agent

                              and

                   CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON
                     as Documentation Agent


                              and

                   SALOMON SMITH BARNEY INC.
                              and
             NATIONSBANC MONTGOMERY SECURITIES, LLC
                        as Co-Arrangers
                              and
                                                  as Co-Book
                                                  Managers







=================================================================
     ARTICLE IDEFINITIONS1.01.  Certain Defined Terms           1
1.02.  Computation of Time Periods.                            39
1.03.  Accounting Terms; Financial Term Definitions.           40
1.04.  Other Terms.                                            40
1.05.  Dollar Equivalents.                                     40
     ARTICLE IIAMOUNTS AND TERMS OF LOANS2.01.  Revolving Credit,
     Term Loan and Swing Loan
         Facilities.                                           40
2.02.  General Terms.                                          43
2.03.  Authorized Officers and Collateral Agent.               46
2.04.  Use of Proceeds of Loans.                               46


     ARTICLE IIILETTERS OF CREDIT3.01.  Letters of Credit.     47
3.02.  Transitional Provisions.                                54
3.03.  Obligations Several.                                    54


     ARTICLE IVPAYMENTS AND PREPAYMENTS4.01.  Prepayments;
     Reductions in Commitments.55
4.02.  Payments.                                               58
4.03.  Promise to Repay; Evidence of Indebtedness.             63
4.04.  Proceeds of Collateral; Concentration Account
     Arrangements.                                             64
4.05.  Cash Collateral Account.                                65
4.06.  Post-Default Withdrawals from the Concentration
         Account and Cash Collateral Account.                  66


     ARTICLE VINTEREST AND FEES5.01.  Interest on the Loans and
     other Obligations.        68
5.02.  Special Provisions Governing Eurodollar Rate Loans.     70
5.03.  Fees.                                                   72
5.04.  Determination of Applicable Base Rate Margin,
         Eurodollar Rate Margin and Commitment Fee Rate.       74





     ARTICLE VICONDITIONS TO LOANS AND LETTERS OF CREDIT6.01.
     Conditions Precedent to the Initial Loans and Letters of
     Credit.                   75
6.02.  Conditions Precedent to All Loans and Letters of
          Credit.                                              77


     ARTICLE VIIREPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES7.01.
     Representations and Warranties of the Borrower.           79

     ARTICLE VIII     REPORTING COVENANTS
8.01.  Financial Statements; Communications with
         Accountants.                                          89
8.02.  Events of Default.                                      91
8.03.  Lawsuits.                                               91
8.04.  Environmental Notices                                   92
8.05.  Other Reports and Information.                          93
8.06.  Unrestricted Subsidiaries.                              93
8.07.  Corporate Organization; Indebtedness for
        Borrowed Money.                                        94


     ARTICLE IX      AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS

9.01.  Corporate Existence, Etc.                               95
9.02.  Corporate Powers; Conduct of Business.                  95
9.03.  Compliance with Laws, Etc.                              95
9.04.  Payment of Taxes and Claims; Tax Consolidation.         95
9.05.  Insurance.                                              96
9.06.  Inspection of Property; Books and Records;
         Discussions.                                          96
9.07.  Insurance and Condemnation Proceeds..                   97
9.08.  ERISA Compliance.                                       97
9.09.  Foreign Employee Benefit Plan Compliance                98
9.10.  Maintenance of Property.                                98
9.11.  Condemnation.                                           98
9.12.  Subsidiaries Acquired or Formed after the
         Closing Date; Guarantors.                             98
9.13.  Performance of Material Contracts.                      98
9.14.  Further Assurances.                                     99
9.15.  Use of Proceeds of the Term Loans and the Senior
         Notes.                                                99
9.16.  Required Hedge Agreements.                              99
9.17.  Year 2000.                                              99


     ARTICLE X         NEGATIVE COVENANTS

10.01.  Indebtedness.                                         101
10.02.  Sales of Assets.                                      103
10.03.  Liens.                                                105
10.04.  Investments.                                          106
10.05.  Restricted Junior Payments.                           108
10.06.  Restriction on Fundamental Changes.                   109
10.07.  Conduct of Business; Accounting and Reporting
         Practices.                                           109
10.08.  Transactions with Shareholders and Affiliates.        110
10.09.  Sales and Leasebacks.                                 110
10.10.  Margin Regulations; Securities Laws.                  110
10.11.  ERISA.                                                110
10.12.  Issuance of Equity Securities.                        111
10.13.  Organizational Documents; Material Contractual
     Obligations.                                             112
10.14.  Bank Accounts.                                        112
10.15.  Fiscal Year; Fiscal Quarters.                         112


     ARTICLE XI       FINANCIAL COVENANTS
11.01.  Interest Coverage Ratio.                              113
11.02.  Capital Expenditures.                                 113
11.03.  Consolidated Senior Indebtedness to EBITDA Ratio.     114
11.04.  Consolidated Indebtedness to EBITDA Ratio.            114
11.05.  Minimum Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio.     114
11.06.  EBITDA Calculations.                                  115


     ARTICLE XIIEVENTS OF DEFAULT; RIGHTS AND REMEDIES

12.01.  Events of Default.                                    116
12.02.  Rights and Remedies.                                  119


     ARTICLE XIIITHE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENTS AND COLLATERAL AGENT

13.01.  Appointment.                                          122
13.02.  Nature of Duties.                                     122
13.03.  Rights, Exculpation, Etc.                             123
13.04.  Reliance.                                             124
13.05.  Indemnification.                                      124
13.06.  Citicorp Individually.                                124
13.07.  Successor Collateral Agents                           125
13.08.  Relations Among Lenders                               125
13.09.  Concerning the Collateral and the Loan Documents.     126



     ARTICLE XIVYIELD PROTECTION14.01.  Taxes.                129
14.02.  Increased Capital.                                    131
14.03.  Changes; Legal Restrictions.                          132
14.04.  Illegality.                                           133
14.05.  Compensation.                                         133
14.06.  Limitation on Additional Amounts Payable by
          the Borrower.                                       134
14.07.  Change in Lending Office.                             134
14.08.  Judgment Currency.                                    134


     ARTICLE XVMISCELLANEOUS15.01.  Assignments and
     Participations.          136
15.02.  Expenses.                                             139
15.03.  Indemnity.                                            140
15.04.  Change in Accounting Principles                       141
15.05.  Setoff.                                               141
15.06.  Ratable Sharing.                                      142
15.07.  Amendments and Waivers                                143
15.08.  Notices.                                              145
15.09.  Survival of Warranties and Agreements.                145
15.10.  Failure or Indulgence Not Waiver; Remedies
         Cumulative.                                          145
15.11.  Marshalling; Payments Set Aside.                      145
15.12.  Severability.                                         146
15.13.  Headings.                                             146
15.14.  Governing Law.                                        146
15.15.  Limitation of Liability.                              146
15.16.  Successors and Assigns.                               146
15.17.  Certain Consents and Waivers of the Borrower.         147
15.18.  Counterparts; Effectiveness; Inconsistencies.         148
15.19.  Limitation on Agreements.                             148
15.20.  Confidentiality.                                      148
15.21.  Entire Agreement.                                     149
15.22.  Advice of Counsel.                                    149


                        CREDIT AGREEMENT



          This Credit Agreement dated as of April 20, 1999 (as
amended, supplemented or modified from time to time, the "Agree-
ment") is entered into among The Fairchild Corporation, a
Delaware corporation (the "Borrower"), the institutions from time
to time a party hereto as Lenders, whether by execution of this
Agreement or an Assignment and Acceptance, the institutions from
time to time a party hereto as Issuing Banks, whether by
execution of this Agreement or an Assignment and Acceptance or by
appointment as provided in this Agreement, Citicorp USA, Inc., a
Delaware corporation ("Citicorp"), in its capacity as an
administrative agent for the Lenders and the Issuing Banks
hereunder (in such capacity, an "Administrative Agent") and as
the collateral agent for the Lenders and the Issuing Banks
hereunder (in such capacity, the "Collateral Agent"),
NationsBank, N.A., a national banking association, in its
capacity as an administrative agent for the Lenders and the
Issuing Banks hereunder (in such capacity, an "Administrative
Agent"), and Credit Suisse First Boston, a bank organized under
the laws of Switzerland, acting through its New York Branch, in
its capacity as documentation agent hereunder (in such capacity,
the "Documentation Agent".



                           ARTICLE I
                          DEFINITIONS

          1.01.  Certain Defined Terms.??  The following terms
used in this Agreement shall have the following meanings,
applicable both to the singular and the plural forms of the terms
defined:

          "Accommodation Obligation" means any Contractual Obliga-
tion, contingent or otherwise, of one Person with respect to any
Indebtedness, obligation or liability of another, if the primary
purpose or intent thereof by the Person incurring the
Accommodation Obligation is to provide assurance to the obligee
of such Indebtedness, obligation or liability of another that
such Indebtedness, obligation or liability will be paid or
discharged, or that any agreements relating thereto will be
complied with, or that the holders thereof will be protected (in
whole or in part) against loss in respect thereof includ-ing,
without limitation, direct and indirect guarantees, endorse-ments
(except for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of busi-
ness), notes co-made or discounted, recourse agreements, take-or-
pay agreements, keep-well agreements, put options, agreements to
purchase or repurchase such Indebtedness, obligation or liability
or any security therefor or to provide funds for the payment or
dis-charge thereof, agreements to maintain solvency, assets,
level of income, or other financial condition, and agreements to
make payment other than for value received.  The amount of any
Accom-modation Obligation shall be equal to the amount of the
Indebtedness, obliga-tion or liability so guaranteed or otherwise
supported; provided, that (i) if the liability of the Person
extending such guaranty or support is limited with respect
thereto to an amount less than the Indebtedness, obliga-tion or
liability guaranteed or supported, or is limited to recourse
against a particular asset or assets of such Person, the amount
of the corresponding Accommodation Obligation shall be limited
(in the case of a guaranty or other support limited by amount) to
such lesser amount or (in the case of a guaranty or other support
limited by recourse to a particular asset or assets) to the
higher of the Fair Market Value of such asset or assets at the
date for determination of the amount of the Accommodation Obliga-
tion or the value at which such asset or assets would, in con-
formity with GAAP, be reflected on or valued for the purposes of
preparing a consolidated balance sheet of such Person as at such
determination date; (ii) if any obligation or liability is
guaranteed or otherwise supported jointly and severally by a
Person and others, then the amount of the obligation or liabil-
ity of such Person with respect to such guaranty or other support
to be included in the amount of such Person's Accommodation
Obligation shall be the whole principal amount so guaranteed or
otherwise supported; and (iii) in the event the Person incurring
the Accommodation Obligation has no obligation thereunder which
is dischargeable by the payment of money, such Accommodation
Obligation shall not be included for purposes of determining
compliance with the provisions of Section 10.01.

          "Administrative Agent" means each of Citicorp and
NationsBank and "Administrative Agents" means Citicorp and
NationsBank, collectively.

          "Affiliate", as applied to any Person, means any other
Person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or
is under common control with, that Person.  For purposes of this
definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the
terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control
with"), as applied to any Person, means the possession, directly
or indirectly, of the power to vote ten percent (10.0%) or more
of the Securities having voting power for the election of
directors of such Person or otherwise to direct or cause the
direction of the management and policies of that Person, whether
through the ownership of voting Securities or by contract or
otherwise. For purposes of this definition as it pertains to
Lenders, "Affiliate" shall include, with respect to any Term
Lender that is a fund that invests in commercial loans, any other
fund that invests in commercial loans and is managed or advised
by the same investment advisor as such Term Lender or by an
Affiliate of such investment advisor.

          "Agreement" is defined in the preamble hereto.

          "Applicable Lending Office" means, with respect to a
particular Lender, its Eurodollar Lending Office in respect of
provisions relating to Eurodollar Rate Loans and its Domestic
Lending Office in respect of provisions relating to Base Rate
Loans.

          "Assignment and Acceptance" means an Assignment and
Acceptance in substantially the form of Exhibit A attached hereto
and made a part hereof (with blanks appropriately completed)
delivered to the Collateral Agent in connection with an
assignment of a Lender's or Issuing Bank's interest under this
Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section 15.01.

          "Availability" means, at any time of determination
thereof, the amount by which the Revolving Credit Commitments at
such time exceed the sum of (a) the Revolving Credit Obligations
at such time plus (b) the outstanding balance of Protective
Advances at such time plus (c) the Swing Loan Reserve.

          "Bankruptcy Code" means Title 11 of the United States
Code (11 U.S.C. '' 101 et seq.), as amended from time to time,
and any successor statute.

          "Banner" means Banner Aerospace, Inc., a Delaware
corporation.

          "Banner Companies" means, collectively, those Persons
and investments in Persons identified on Schedule 1.01.5 under
the heading "Banner Aerospace, Inc." and their respective Capital
Stock and assets; and "Banner Company" means any of the Banner
Companies, individually.

          "Banner Credit Agreement" means that certain Second
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of December 12,
1996, as amended, among Banner, certain of its Subsidiaries,
Citicorp, as administrative agent, Citicorp and NationsBank as
lenders, and Citibank, as issuing bank thereunder.

          "Banner Distribution" means, collectively, that certain
dividend paid by Banner to the Borrower and that certain
intercompany loan made by Banner to the Borrower, in each event
after the Banner Exchange and on or before the Closing Date and
in an aggregate amount of approximately $115,000,000.

          "Banner Exchange" means the merger of MTA, Inc., a
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Borrower, with and into Banner
(with Banner being the surviving corporation), whereupon each
share of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of Banner
issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of
such merger not owned by the Borrower or any Affiliate of the
Borrower was converted into the right to receive a certain number
of validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable shares of common
stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Borrower, as more
particularly described in the Banner Exchange Proxy.

          "Banner Exchange Proxy" means that certain Proxy
Statement of Banner dated March 25, 1999.
          "Base Eurodollar Rate" means, with respect to any
Eurodollar Interest Period applicable to a Borrowing of
Eurodollar Rate Loans, the rate of interest per annum determined
by the Collateral Agent to be the offered rate per annum at which
deposits in Dollars appears on Telerate page 3750 (or any
successor page) as of 11:00 a.m. (London time), or in the event
such offered rate is not available from the Telerate page, the
rate offered on deposits in Dollars by Citibank's London Office
to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 a.m.
(London time), on the Eurodollar Interest Rate Determination Date
for such Eurodollar Interest Period and in an amount
substantially equal to the amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan to
be outstanding from Citicorp for such Eurodollar Interest Period.

          "Base Rate" means, for any period, a fluctuating
interest rate per annum as shall be in effect from time to time,
which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the higher
of:

          (i)  the rate of interest announced publicly by
     Citibank in New York, New York from time to time, as
     Citibank's base rate; and

          (ii)  the sum of (a) one-half of one percent
     (0.50%) per annum plus (b) the Federal Funds Rate in
     effect from time to time during such period.

          "Base Rate Loans" means all Loans which bear interest
at a rate determined by reference to the Base Rate and Base Rate
Margin as provided in Section 5.01(a).

          "Base Rate Margin" means, as of any date of
determination, a per annum rate equal to the rate set forth below
opposite the then attained compliance with a Consolidated
Indebtedness to EBITDA Ratio, for the then most recently ended
four (4) Fiscal Quarter period, by the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, measured as of the end of
each Fiscal Quarter commencing with the Fiscal Quarter ending
December 27, 1999:

     Consolidated
     Indebtedness to                    Revolver Base
     EBITDA Ratio                       Rate Margin

     Less than 3.50 to 1.00                 0.75%

     Less than 4.25 to 1.00 and equal       1.25%
     to or greater than 3.50 to 1.00

     Less than 5.00 to 1.00 and equal       1.50%
     to or greater than 4.25 to 1.00

     Less than 5.75 to 1.00 and equal       1.75%
     to or greater than 5.00 to 1.00
     Equal to or greater than 5.75 to       2.25%
     1.00


     Consolidated
     Indebtedness to                    Term Base
     EBITDA Ratio                       Rate Margin

     Less than 4.25 to 1.00                 1.75%

     Less than 5.00 to 1.00 and equal       2.00%
     to or greater than 4.25 to 1.00

     Equal to or greater than 5.00 to       2.25%
     1.00


provided, however, that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Revolver Base Rate Margin during the period commencing on the
Closing Date and ending on March 31, 2000 shall be equal to two
percent (2.00%) per annum and the Term Base Rate Margin during
the period commencing on the Closing Date and ending on March 31,
2000 shall be equal to two and one-quarter percent (2.25%) per
annum.

          "Benefit Plan" means a defined benefit plan as defined
in Section 3(35) of ERISA (other than a Multiemployer Plan or
Foreign Employee Benefit Plan) in respect of which the Borrower
or any ERISA Affiliate is, or within the immediately preceding
five (5) years was, an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of
ERISA.

          "Borrower" is defined in the preamble hereto.

          "Borrowing" means a borrowing consisting of Loans of
the same type made, continued or converted on the same day and,
in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Eurodollar
Interest Period.

          "Business Activity Report" means (A) a Notice of
Business Activities Report from the State of New Jersey Division
of Taxation or (B) a Minnesota Business Activity Report from the
Minnesota Department of Revenue.

          "Business Day" means a day, in the applicable local
time, which is not a Saturday or Sunday or a legal holiday and on
which banks are not required or permitted by law or other govern-
mental action to close (i) in New York, New York, (ii) in the
case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, in London, England and (iii) in
the case of Letter of Credit transactions for a particular
Issuing Bank, in the place where its office for issuance or
adminis-tra-tion of the pertinent Letter of Credit is located.

          "Capital Expenditures" means, for any period and
without duplication, the aggre-gate of all expenditures made
(whether paid in cash or other Property) or accrued as a
liability during such period that, in conformity with GAAP, are
required to be included in or reflected in the fixed asset
accounts of the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and
its Subsidiaries; provided, however, (i) Capital Expenditures
shall include, whether or not such a designation would be in
conformity with GAAP, that portion of Capital Leases which is
capitalized on the consol-idated balance sheet of the Borrower
and its Sub-sidi-aries, (ii) Capital Expenditures shall exclude,
whether or not such a designation would be in conformity with
GAAP, (a) expenditures made in con-nec-tion with the replacement
or restora-tion of Property, to the extent reimbursed or financed
from insur-ance or other recoveries received on account of the
loss of or damage to the Property being replaced or restored or
from condemnation awards arising from the taking by condemnation
or eminent domain of such Property being replaced, (b)
expenditures which would otherwise be included as aforesaid which
are expenditures made by an Unrestricted Subsidiary or by any
Technologies Company, whether or not then an Unrestricted
Subsidiary, and (c) expenditures which would otherwise be
included as aforesaid which are expenditures made with respect to
completion of development of the Farmingdale Property, and (iii)
such expenditures made in any Fiscal Year shall be net of any
proceeds of sales of Equipment by the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries.

          "Capital Lease" means any lease of any property
(whether real, personal or mixed) by a Person as lessee which, in
conformity with GAAP, is accounted for as a capital lease on the
balance sheet of that Person.

          "Capital Stock" means, with respect to any Person, any
capital stock of such Person, regardless of class or designation,
and all warrants, options, purchase rights, conversion or ex-
change rights, voting rights, calls or claims of any character
with respect thereto.

          "Cash" means money, currency, or a credit balance in a
Deposit Account.

          "Cash Collateral" means cash or Cash Equivalents held
by the Collateral Agent, an Issuing Bank, or any of the Lenders
as security for the Obligations.

          "Cash Collateral Account" means an interest bearing
account at Citibank's offices in New York, New York designated by
the Collateral Agent into which Cash Collateral shall be
deposited.  The Cash Collateral Account shall be under the sole
dominion and control of the Collateral Agent, provided that all
amounts deposited therein shall be held by the Collateral Agent
for the benefit of the Holders and shall be subject to the terms
of Sections 4.05 and 4.06.
          "Cash Equivalents" means (i) marketable direct
obligations issued or uncondi-tionally guaranteed by the United
States govern-ment and backed by the full faith and credit of the
United States government; (ii) marketable direct obligations
issued by any state of the United States or any political
subdivision of any such state or any public instrumentality
thereof which, at the time of acquisition thereof, are rated
either A-1 (or better) by Standard & Poor's Rating Group, a
division of McGraw-Hill, Inc. ("S&P") or P-1 (or better) by
Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (or if not then rating such
obligations, the highest rating obtainable from such other
nationally recognized rating services as are reasonably
acceptable to the Collateral Agent); (iii) commercial paper
which, at the time of acquisition thereof, is rated either A-1
(or better) by S&P or P-1 (or better) by Moody's Investors
Service, Inc. (or if not then rating such obligations, the
highest rating obtainable from such other nationally or
internationally recognized rating services as are reasonably
acceptable to the Collateral Agent); (iv) domestic or European
certificates of deposit and time deposits, bankers' acceptances
and floating rate certificates of deposit issued by any
commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States,
any state thereof, the District of Columbia or any member state
of the European Union and having a combined capital and surplus
in excess of $250,000,000, which, at the time of acquisition, are
rated A-1 (or better) by S&P or P-1 (or better) by Moody's
Investors Service, Inc. (or if not then rating such obligations,
the highest rating obtainable from such other nationally or
internationally recognized rating services as are reasonably
acceptable to the Collateral Agent); (v) any agreement involving
U.S. Government securities, certificates of deposit or "eligible"
bankers' acceptances which provides for the transfer of such
securities against payment in funds and which contains an
agreement by the seller to repurchase the securities at a
specified date not more than ninety (90) days after the date of
such agreement; and (vi) freely redeemable shares in money market
funds which money market funds, at the time of acquisition, are
rated either A-1 (or better) by S&P or P-1 (or better) by Moody's
Investors Service, Inc. (or if not then rating such obligations,
the highest rating obtainable from such other nationally or
internationally recognized rating services as are reasonably
acceptable to the Collateral Agent);  provided, that the
maturities of such Cash Equiva-lents shall not exceed ninety (90)
days.

          "Cash Interest Expense" means, for the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries for any period, total interest expense of the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries, which is payable in cash, whether
paid or accrued, but without duplication, net of (i) the
difference between payments received by the Borrower and
Restricted Subsidiaries on all Hedge Agreements and payments made
by the Borrower and Restricted Subsidiaries on all Hedge
Agreements, (ii) interest income received in cash by the Borrower
and Restricted Subsidiaries and (iii) total interest expense of
Unrestricted Subsidiaries; (including, without limitation, the
interest component of Capital Leases, all commissions, discounts
and other fees and charges owed with respect to letters of credit
and bankers' acceptance financing and excluding, interest expense
not payable in cash (including amortization of discount and fees)
and interest expense with respect to liabilities which are not
Indebtedness for Borrowed Money), all as determined in conformity
with GAAP except to the extent adjustments with respect to Hedge
Agreements would not be in conformity with GAAP.

          "CERCLA" means the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. ''
9601 et seq., any amendments thereto, any successor statutes, and
any regulations promulgated thereunder.

          "Change of Control" means any of (i) any "person" or
"group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act), other than one or more Permitted
Holders becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3
and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act), directly or
indirectly, of more than forty percent (40%) of the total voting
power of the Voting Stock of the Borrower; provided, however,
that the Permitted Holders beneficially own (as defined above),
directly or indirectly, in the aggregate a lesser percentage of
the total voting power of the Voting Stock of the Borrower than
such other Person and do not have the right or ability by voting
power, contract or otherwise to elect or designate for election a
majority of the Board of Directors of the Borrower; or (ii)
during any period of two (2) consecutive years, individuals who
at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of
Directors of the Borrower (together with any new directors whose
election by such Board of Directors or whose nomination for
election by the stockholders of the Borrower was approved
pursuant to the vote of 66 2/3% of the directors of the Borrower
then still in office who were either directors at the beginning
of such period or whose election or nomination for election was
previously so approved) cease for any reason to constitute a
majority of the Board of Directors of the Borrower then in
office; or (iii) the merger or consolidation of the Borrower with
or into another Person (other than a Permitted Holder) or the
merger of another Person (other than a Permitted Holder) with or
into the Borrower, or the sale of all or substantially all of the
assets of the Borrower to another Person (other than a Permitted
Holder), and, in the case of any such merger or consolidation,
the Capital Stock of the Borrower that is outstanding immediately
prior to such transaction and that represents 100% of the
aggregate voting power of the Voting Stock of the Borrower is
changed into or exchanged for cash, Securities or property,
unless pursuant to such transaction such Securities are changed
into or exchanged for, in addition to other consideration,
Securities of the surviving Person that represent, immediately
after such transaction, at least a majority of the aggregate
voting power of the Voting Stock of the surviving corporation.

          "Citibank" means Citibank, N.A., a national banking
association.

          "Citicorp" is defined in the preamble hereto.

          "Claim" means any claim or demand, by any Person, of
whatsoever kind or nature for any alleged Liabili-ties and Costs,
whether based in contract, tort, implied or express warranty,
strict liability, criminal or civil statute, Permit, ordinance or
regulation, common law or otherwise.

          "Closing Date" means April 20, 1999.

          "Collateral" means all property and interests in prop-
erty now owned or hereafter acquired by the Borrower or any
Subsidiary of the Borrower upon which a Lien is granted under any
of the Loan Documents.

          "Collateral Agent" means Citicorp and each successor
Collateral Agent appointed pursuant to the terms of Article XIII.

          "Collection Account" means each lock-box and blocked
depository account maintained by the Borrower or any Guarantor
subject to a Collection Account Agreement for the collection of
Receivables and other proceeds of Collateral.

          "Collection Account Agreement" means a written
agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral
Agent, granting the Collateral Agent certain rights with respect
to proceeds of Collateral deposited in the subject Collection
Account and executed by the Borrower or a Guarantor, the
Collateral Agent, and the respective bank at which the Borrower
or such Guarantor maintains a Collection Account.

          "Commercial Letter of Credit" means any documentary
letter of credit issued by an Issuing Bank pursuant to Section
3.01 for the account of the Borrower or for the account of any
Guarantor or any Subsidiary of the Borrower if the Borrower is
jointly and severally liable for reimbursement of amounts drawn
under such letter of credit, which is drawable upon presentation
of documents evidencing the sale or shipment of goods purchased
by the Borrower, a Guarantor, or such Subsidiary of the Borrower
in the ordinary course of its busi-ness.

          "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion and any Person succeeding to the functions thereof.

          "Commitment" means, with respect to a given Lender, the
sum of such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment plus such
Lender's Term Loan Commitment.

          "Commitment Fee" is defined in Section 5.03(c).

          "Commitment Fee Rate" means (i) one-half of one percent
(0.5%) per annum in the event the Revolving Credit Obligations
equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the Revolving Credit
Commitments and (ii) three-quarters of one percent (0.75%) per
annum in the event the Revolving Credit Obligations are less than
fifty percent (50%) of the Revolving Credit Commitments.

          "Commitment Letter" means that certain commitment
letter addressed to the Borrower from Salomon Smith Barney Inc.,
NationsBanc Montgomery Securities, Inc., NationsBank, N.A., and
Credit Suisse First Boston dated March 17, 1999.

          "Compliance Certificate" is defined in Section
8.01(d)(ii).

          "Concentration Account" means a depository account
maintained at Citibank in New York, New York, or such other
financial institution designated for such purpose by the
Collateral Agent into which collections of Receivables of the
Borrower and the Domestic Subsidiaries, other proceeds of
Collateral and other amounts are transferred pursuant to the
terms of the Collection Account Agreements or otherwise as
described in Section 4.04.

          "Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio" means, for
any period, the ratio of (i) EBITDA for such period minus Capital
Expenditures made in such period to (ii) the sum of (a) Cash
Interest Expense for such period plus (b) the amount of all
scheduled principal payments paid in such period by the Borrower
and its Subsidiaries (other than Unrestricted Subsidiaries).

          "Consolidated Indebtedness to EBITDA Ratio" means, for
any period, the ratio of (i) Consolidated Total Debt as of the
last day of such period to (ii) EBITDA for such period.

          "Consolidated Senior Indebtedness to EBITDA Ratio"
means, for any period, the ratio of (i) Consolidated Total Senior
Debt as of the last day of such period to (ii) EBITDA for such
period.

          "Consolidated Total Debt" means the amount equal to (i)
the principal amount of total funded debt of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries, to the extent the same would be reflected on a
balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries prepared in
accordance with GAAP,  plus (ii) the principal amount of total
debt attributable to discontinued operations of the Restricted
Subsidiaries, to the extent the same would be reflected on a
balance sheet of the Restricted Subsidiary the operations of
which have been discontinued, prepared in accordance with GAAP,
minus (iii) total debt of Unrestricted Subsidiaries to the extent
the same would be reflected on a balance sheet of the Borrower
and its Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP, and minus
(iv) the amount of cash and Cash Equivalents of the Borrower and
its Subsidiaries (other than Unrestricted Subsidiaries) reflected
on a balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.

          "Consolidated Total Senior Debt" means the amount equal
to (i) the Consolidated Total Debt minus (ii) the principal
amount outstanding under the Senior Subordinated Notes or, in the
event the Senior Subordinated Notes are permitted under the terms
of this Agreement to be, and are, refinanced on terms and
conditions no less favorable to the interests of the Lenders than
the terms pursuant to which the Senior Subordinated Notes have
been issued, the principal amount outstanding under such
Indebtedness refinancing the Senior Subordinated Notes minus
(iii) the principal amount outstanding with respect to
Indebtedness for Borrowed Money which is permitted to be incurred
under the terms of Section 10.01 and is subordinated to or pari
passu with the Indebtedness for Borrowed Money described in
clause (ii) above.

          "Contaminant" means any waste, pollutant, hazardous
substance, toxic substance, hazardous waste, special waste,
petroleum or petroleum-derived substance or waste, radioactive
materials, asbestos (in any form or condition), polychlorinated
biphenyls (PCBs), lead paint, or any constituent of any such
substance or waste, and includes, but is not limited to, these
terms as defined in federal, state or local laws or regulations.

          "Contractual Obligation", as applied to any Person,
means any provision of any Securities issued by that Person or
any inden-ture, mortgage, deed of trust, security agreement,
pledge agreement, guaranty, contract, undertaking, agreement or
instrument to which that Person is a party or by which it or any
of its properties is bound, or to which it or any of its
properties is subject.

          "Cure Loans" is defined in Section 4.02(f)(iii).

          "Customary Permitted Liens" means

          (i)  Liens (other than Environmental Liens and
     Liens in favor of the PBGC) with respect to the payment
     of taxes, assessments or governmental charges in all
     cases which are not yet due or which are being
     contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and
     with respect to which adequate reserves or other
     appropriate provisions are being maintained in
     accordance with GAAP;

          (ii)  statutory Liens of landlords and Liens of
     suppliers, mechanics, carriers, materialmen,
     warehousemen or workmen and other Liens imposed by law
     created in the ordinary course of business for amounts
     not yet due or which are being contested in good faith
     by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which
     adequate reserves or other appropriate provisions are
     being maintained in accordance with GAAP;

          (iii)  Liens (other than any Lien in favor of the
     PBGC) incurred or deposits made in the ordinary course
     of business in connection with worker's compen-sation,
     unemploy-ment insurance or other types of social
     security benefits or to secure the performance of bids,
     tenders, sales, contracts (other than for the repayment
     of borrowed money), surety, appeal and performance
     bonds; provided that (A) all such Liens do not in the
     aggregate materially detract from the value of the
     Borrower's or any of its Subsidiaries' assets or
     Property or materially impair the use thereof in the
     opera-tion of their respective businesses, and (B) all
     Liens of attachment or judgment and Liens securing
     bonds to stay judgments or in con-nec-tion with appeals
     do not secure at any time an aggre-gate amount
     exceeding $1,000,000; and

          (iv)  Liens arising with respect to zoning
     restrictions, easements, licenses, reservations,
     covenants, rights-of-way, utility ease-ments, building
     restrictions and other similar charges or encumbrances
     on the use of Real Property which do not materially
     interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of
     the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Subsidiaries.

          "Deposit Account" means a demand, time, savings,
passbook or like account with a bank, savings and loan
association, credit union, brokerage house, or like organization,
other than an account evidenced by a negotiable certificate of
deposit.

          "Designated Prepayment" means each mandatory prepayment
required by clauses (i) - (iv) of Section 4.01(b).

          "DOL" means the United States Department of Labor and
any Person succeeding to the functions thereof.

          "Dollars" and "$" mean the lawful money of the United
States.

          "Domestic Lending Office" means, with respect to any
Lender, such Lender's office, located in the United States,
specified as the "Domestic Lend-ing Office" under its name on the
signature pages hereof or on the Assignment and Acceptance by
which it became a Lender or such other United States office of
such Lender as it may from time to time specify by written notice
to the Borrower and the Collateral Agent.

          "Domestic Subsidiaries" means those Subsidiaries of the
Guarantors or the Borrower domiciled within the United States of
America, its states, districts and possessions.
          "EBITDA" means, for any period, the amount calculated,
without duplication, for such period as the sum of amounts for
such period of the Borrower's and its Subsidiaries' (other than
Unrestricted Subsidiaries' and the Technologies
Companies'(whether or not the same are Unrestricted
Subsidiaries)) net income plus (to the extent deducted in
calculating net income):

          (a) income tax expense (or minus income tax benefits)

          (b) interest expense (net of interest income)

          (c) depreciation expense and amortization expense

          (d) the amount of all other non-cash charges (less non-
          cash credits), subtracting therefrom (adding thereto)
          the amount of all cash payments (receipts) in such
          period arising from non-cash charges (credits) added
          back (deducted from) in any previous period

          (e) the amount of all cash distributions from
          Unrestricted Subsidiaries to the Borrower and
          Restricted Subsidiaries to the extent such
          distributions do not decrease the amount of
          Unrestricted Subsidiaries Net Investment Amount
          permitted under Section 8.06

          (f) the amount of all bonuses in an amount not to
          exceed the amount thereof disclosed in the Projections
          and paid on or before June 30, 2000 to executive
          officers of the Borrower and Restricted Subsidiaries in
          connection with the Kaynar Acquisition and

          (g) the amount of all severance, rationalization,
          product qualification and other non-recurring
          transition costs incurred in connection with the Kaynar
          Acquisition in an aggregate amount not to exceed
          $20,000,000.

Net income shall exclude (to the extent included above):

          (1) the amount of any gain or loss realized upon the
sale or other disposition of any assets of the Borrower, its
consolidated Subsidiaries or any other Person which is not sold
or otherwise disposed of in the ordinary course of its operating
businesses and any gain or loss realized upon the sale or other
disposition of any Capital Stock of any Person; and

          (2) the amount of the non-recurring cumulative effect
of a change in accounting principles.

          "Eligible Assignee" means (i) a Lender or any Affiliate
thereof; (ii) a com-mercial bank having total assets in excess of
$2,500,000,000; (iii) the central bank of any country which is a
member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development; or (iv) a finance com-pany, insurance com-pany,
other financial insti-tution or fund, which is regularly engaged
in making, purchasing or investing in loans and having total
assets in excess of $300,000,000 or is otherwise acceptable to
the Collateral Agent.

          "Eligible Marketable Securities" means (i) equity
Securities of a corporation the Securities of which are (or were
at the date of acquisition) included in the S&P 500 Index and
freely tradable upon issuance, (ii) freely tradable debt
Securities which have (or had at the date of acquisition) an
investment grade rating, and (iii) a freely tradable mutual fund
which invests substantially all of its assets in such equity
Securities and/or debt Securities; in each instance where held by
a securities intermediary, subject to an account control
agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Collateral
Agent. The term "freely tradable" shall mean freely tradable
under the Securities Act (including pursuant to Rule 145(d)(1)
thereunder).

          "Environmental, Health or Safety Requirements of Law"
means all Requirements of Law derived from or relating to any
federal, state or local law, ordinance, rule, regulation, Permit,
license or other binding determination of any Governmental
Authority relating to, imposing liability or standards
concerning, or otherwise addressing, the environment, health
and/or safety, including, but not limited to the Clean Air Act,
the Clean Water Act, CERCLA, RCRA, any so-called "Superfund" or
"Superlien" law, the Toxic Substances Control Act, OSHA, and
public health codes, each as from time to time in effect.

          "Environmental Lien" means a Lien in favor of any
Governmental Authority for any (i) liabilities under any
Environmental, Health or Safety Requirement of Law, or (ii)
damages arising from, or costs incurred by such Governmental
Authority in response to, a Release or threatened Release of a
Con-taminant into the environ-ment.

          "Equipment" means, with respect to any Person, all of
such Person's present and future (i) equipment, including,
without limitation, machinery, manufacturing, distribution,
selling, data processing and office equipment, assembly systems,
tools, molds, dies, fixtures, appliances, furniture, furnishings,
vehicles, vessels, aircraft, aircraft engines, and trade
fixtures, (ii) other tangible personal property (other than such
Person's Inventory), and (iii) any and all accessions, parts and
appurtenances attached to any of the foregoing or used in
connection therewith, and any substitutions therefor and
replacements, products and proceeds thereof.

          "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, 29 U.S.C. '' 1000 et seq., any amendments thereto,
any successor statutes, and any regulations or guidance
promulgated thereunder.

          "ERISA Affiliate" means (i) any corporation which is a
member of the same controlled group of corporations (within the
meaning of Section 414(b) of the Internal Revenue Code) as FHC;
(ii) a partnership or other trade or business (whether or not
incorporated) which is under common control (within the meaning
of Section 414(c) of the Internal Revenue Code) with FHC; and
(iii) a member of the same affiliated service group (within the
meaning of Section 414(m) of the Internal Revenue Code) as FHC,
any corporation described in clause (i) above or any partnership
or trade or business described in clause (ii) above.

          "ERISA Event" means (i) the occurrence with respect to
a Plan of a Reportable Event, (ii) the provision by the
administrator of any Plan of a notice of intent to terminate such
Plan, pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) of ERISA (including any such
notice with respect to a plan amendment referred to in Section
4041(e) of ERISA), (iii) the cessation of operations at a
facility of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate in the
circumstances described in Section 4062(e) of ERISA, (iv) the
withdrawal by the Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate from a
Multiemployer Plan during a plan year for which it was a
substantial employer, as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA,
(v) the conditions set forth in Section 302(f)(1)(A) and (B) of
ERISA to the creation of a Lien upon Property or rights to
Property of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate for failure to
make a required payment to a Plan are satisfied, (vi) the
adoption of an amendment to a Plan requiring the provision of
security to such Plan, pursuant to Section 307 of ERISA, or (vii)
the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Plan,
pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event
or condition described in Section 4042 of ERISA that constitutes
grounds for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee
to administer, a Plan.

          "Eurodollar Affiliate" means, with respect to each
Lender, the Affiliate of such Lender (if any) set forth below
such Lender's name under the heading "Eurodollar Affiliate" on
the signature pages hereof or on the signature pages of the
Assignment and Acceptance by which it became a Lender or such
Affiliate of a Lender as it may from time to time specify by
written notice to the Borrower and the Collateral Agent.

          "Eurodollar Interest Payment Date" means, with respect
to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, the last day of each Eurodollar
Inter-est Period applicable to such Loan and, if such applicable
Eurodollar Interest Period is longer than three (3) months in
duration, on the first Business Day of each successive three (3)
month period commencing with the first such day following the day
on which such Eurodollar Rate Loan was made, continued or
converted and ending with the first Business Day of the three (3)
month period ending on the last day of the applicable Eurodollar
Interest Period.

          "Eurodollar Interest Period" is defined in Section
5.02(b).

          "Eurodollar Interest Rate Determination Date" is
defined in Section 5.02(c).

          "Eurodollar Lending Office" means, with respect to any
Lender, the office or offices of such Lender (if any) set forth
below such Lender's name under the heading "Eurodollar Lending
Office" on the signature pages hereof or on the signature pages
of the Assignment and Acceptance by which it became a Lender (or,
if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office), or
such office or offices of such Lender as it may from time to time
specify by written notice to the Borrower and the Collateral
Agent.

          "Eurodollar Rate" means, with respect to any Eurodollar
Inter-est Period applicable to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, an
interest rate per annum obtained by dividing (i) the Base
Eurodollar Rate applicable to that Eurodollar Interest Period by
(ii) a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurodollar Rate Reserve
Percentage in effect on the relevant Eurodollar Interest Rate
Determination Date.

          "Eurodollar Rate Loans" means those Loans outstanding
which bear interest at a rate determined by reference to a
Eurodollar Rate and the Eurodollar Rate Margin as provided in
Section 5.01(a).

          "Eurodollar Rate Margin" means, as of any date of
determination, a per annum rate equal to the rate set forth below
opposite the then attained compliance with a Consolidated
Indebtedness to EBITDA Ratio, for the then most recently ended
four (4) Fiscal Quarter period, by the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, measured as of the end of
each Fiscal Quarter commencing with the Fiscal Quarter ending
December 27, 1999:

     Consolidated                       Revolver
     Indebtedness to                    Eurodollar
     EBITDA Ratio                       Rate Margin

     Less than 3.50 to 1.00                 1.75%

     Less than 4.25 to 1.00 and equal       2.25%
     to or greater than 3.50 to 1.00

     Less than 5.00 to 1.00 and equal       2.50%
     to or greater than 4.25 to 1.00

     Less than 5.75 to 1.00 and equal       2.75%
     to or greater than 5.00 to 1.00

     Equal to or greater than 5.75 to       3.25%
     1.00


     Consolidated                       Term
     Indebtedness to                    Eurodollar
     EBITDA Ratio                       Rate Margin

     Less than 4.25 to 1.00                 2.75%

     Less than 5.00 to 1.00 and equal       3.00%
     to or greater than 4.25 to 1.00

     Equal to or greater than 5.00 to       3.25%
     1.00


provided, however, that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Revolver Eurodollar Rate Margin during the period commencing on
the Closing Date and ending on March 31, 2000 shall be equal to
three percent (3.00%) per annum and the Term Eurodollar Rate
Margin during the period commencing on the Closing Date and
ending on March 31, 2000 shall be equal to three and one-quarter
percent (3.25%) per annum.

          "Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage" means, for any
Lender for the Eurodollar Interest Period for any Eurodollar
Rate, the reserve percentage which is applicable three (3)
Business Days before the first day of such Eurodollar Interest
Period under the regulations issued from time to time by the
Federal Reserve Board for determining the actual reserve
requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency,
supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member
bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York, New York with
deposits exceeding Five Billion Dollars ($5,000,000,000) with
respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including
"Eurodollar Liabili-ties" (or with respect to any other category
of liabilities which includes deposits by reference to which the
inter-est rate on Eurodollar Rate Loans is determined) having a
term equal to such Eurodollar Interest Period.

          "Event of Default" means any of the occurrences set
forth in Section 12.01 after the expiration of any applicable
grace period, as expressly provided in Section 12.01.

          "Excess Cash Flow" means, without duplication, for each
Fiscal Year of the Borrower ending after June 30, 1999, an amount
equal to the greater of (i) zero or (ii) the amount equal to:

     (a) EBITDA for such Fiscal Year,  minus

     (b) the amount of taxes actually paid by the Borrower and
the Restricted Subsidiaries in cash during such Fiscal Year,
minus

     (c) Cash Interest Expense (including bank fees, commissions,
discounts and other fees and charges with respect to letters of
credit, commitment fees, and fees paid under any fee letter and
payments made for retiree medical benefit obligations) for such
Fiscal Year, plus

     (d) the net reduction, if any, in working capital (excluding
changes in cash and cash equivalents) of the Borrower and
Restricted Subsidiaries during such Fiscal Year, minus

     (e) the net increase, if any, in working capital (excluding
changes in cash and cash equivalents) of the Borrower and
Restricted Subsidiaries during such Fiscal Year, minus

     (f) Capital Expenditures incurred as permitted pursuant
hereto during such Fiscal Year, minus

     (g) cash flow to the extent included in the amounts
determined under clauses (a) - (f) above generated by the
Farmingdale Property, any Unrestricted Subsidiary or Investments
made as permitted by Section 10.04(d), minus

     (h) the amount of all permanent repayments (including,
without limitation, mandatory prepayments) of Indebtedness for
Borrowed Money (other than mandatory prepayments in respect of
Excess Cash Flow), minus

     (i) the amount of all bonuses in an amount not to exceed the
amount thereof disclosed in the Projections and paid on or before
June 30, 2000 to executive officers of the Borrower and
Restricted Subsidiaries in connection with the Kaynar
Acquisition, minus

     (j) the amount of severance, rationalization, product
qualification and other non-recurring transition costs incurred
in connection with the Kaynar Acquisition in an aggregate amount
not to exceed $20,000,000.

          "Exchange Rate" means, in relation to the purchase of
one currency (for the purposes of this definition, the "first
currency") with another currency (for the purposes of this
definition, the "second currency") on a given date, Citibank's
spot rate of exchange for the amount in question in the London
interbank market at 11:00 a.m. (London time) on such date for the
purchase of the first currency with the second currency, for
delivery two (2) Business Days later.

          "Fair Market Value" means, with respect to any asset,
the value of the consideration obtainable in a sale of such asset
in the open market, assuming a sale by a willing seller to a
willing purchaser dealing at arm's length and arranged in an
orderly manner over a reasonable period of time, each having
reasonable knowledge of the nature and characteristics of such
asset, neither being under any compulsion to act.

          "Farmingdale Property" means the Real Property located
in Farmingdale, New York identified on Schedule 1.01.1 attached
hereto and made a part hereof.

          "Federal Funds Rate" means, for any period, a fluctu-
ating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such
period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal
funds trans-actions with members of the Federal Reserve System
arranged by federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or,
if such day is not a Business Day in New York, New York, for the
next preceding Busi-ness Day) in New York, New York by the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or if such rate is not so
published for any day which is a Business Day in New York, New
York, the average of the quotations for such day on such
transactions received by the Collateral Agent from three federal
funds brokers of recog-nized standing selected by the Collateral
Agent.

          "Federal Reserve Board" means the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System or any Governmental Authority succeed-
ing to its functions.

          "Fee Letter" means that certain fee letter addressed to
the Borrower dated March 17, 1999.

          "FHC" means Fairchild Holding Corp., a Delaware
corporation.

          "Financial Statements" means (i) statements of income
and retained earnings, statements of cash flow, and balance
sheets, (ii) such other financial statements as the Borrower and
the Borrower's Subsidiaries shall routinely and regularly
prepare, and (iii) such other financial statements as the
Collateral Agent or the Requisite Lenders may from time to time
reasonably specify.

          "Fiscal Quarter" means each of the three-month periods
ending on the dates set forth on Schedule 1.01.2.

          "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower and
its Subsidiaries for accounting and federal income tax purposes,
which shall be the 12-month period ending on June 30 of each
calendar year.

          "Foreign Employee Benefit Plan" means any employee bene-
fit plan as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA which is main-tained
or contributed to for the benefit of the employees of the
Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any of its ERISA Affiliates
and is not covered by ERISA pursuant to ERISA Section 4(b)(4).

          "Foreign Pension Plan" means any employee benefit plan
as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA which (i) is maintained or
contributed to for the benefit of employees of the Borrower, any
of its Subsidiaries or any of its ERISA Affiliates, (ii) is not
covered by ERISA pursuant to Section 4(b)(4) of ERISA, and (iii)
under applicable local law, is required to be funded through a
trust or other funding vehicle.

          "Fronting Fee" is defined in Section 5.03(b).

          "Funding Date" means, with respect to any Loan, the
date of funding of such Loan.

          "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles
set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants' Accounting Principles
Board and Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other
statements by such other entity as may be in general use by
significant segments of the accounting profession as in effect on
the date hereof (unless otherwise specified herein as in effect
on another date or dates).

          "General Intangibles" means, with respect to any
Person, all of such Person's present and future (i) general
intangibles, (ii) rights, interests, choses in action, causes of
action, claims and other intangible Property of every kind and
nature (other than Receivables), (iii) corporate and other
business records, (iv) loans, royalties, and other obligations
receivable, (v) trademarks, registered trademarks, trademark
applications, service marks, registered service marks, service
mark applications, patents, registered patents, patent
applications, trade names, rights of use of any name, labels,
fictitious names, inventions, designs, trade secrets, computer
programs, software, printouts and other computer materials,
goodwill, registrations, copyrights, copyright applications,
permits, licenses, franchises, customer lists, credit files,
correspondence, and advertising materials, (vi) customer and
supplier contracts, firm sale orders, rights under license and
franchise agreements, rights under tax sharing agreements, rights
under non-compete agreement, and other contracts and contract
rights, (vii) interests in partnerships and joint ventures,
(viii) tax refunds and tax refund claims, (ix) right, title and
interest under leases, subleases, licenses and concessions and
other agreements relating to property, (x) deposit accounts
(general or special) with any bank or other financial
institution, (xi) credits with and other claims against third
parties (including carriers and shippers), (xii) rights to
indemnification and with respect to support and keep-well
agreements, (xiii) reversionary interests in pension and profit
sharing plans and reversionary, beneficial and residual interests
in trusts, (xiv) letters of credit, guarantees, Liens, security
interests and other security held by or granted to such Person,
(xvi) uncertificated securities and (xvii) investment property.

          "German Acquisition Loans" means loans, in the
aggregate principal amount of DM23,105,902.50 made on November
26, 1997 by Citibank Aktiengesellschaft to the German Subsidiary
Borrowers.

          "German Subsidiary Borrowers" means, collectively,
Fairchild Fasteners Europe--Camloc GmbH, a Subsidiary of FHC, and
Fairchild Fasteners Europe-VSD GmbH, a Subsidiary of FHC.

          "Governmental Authority" means any nation or
government, any federal, state, local or other political sub-
division thereof and any entity exercising executive, legisla-
tive, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or
pertaining to government.

          "Guarantors" means each of the Subsidiaries of the
Borrower identified on Schedule 1.01.3 attached hereto and made a
part hereof as of the Closing Date, and any other Person
executing and delivering a guaranty of payment and performance of
all or any portion of the Obligations after the Closing Date.

          "Hedge Agreement" means any agreement, including,
without limitation, interest rate exchange, swap, collar or cap
agreement, interest rate future or option contract, currency swap
agreement, currency future, forward, or option contract, and
other similar agreement, evidencing an agreement or arrangement
intended to protect against fluctuation in interest rates and/or
foreign exchange rates or conversion rates for conversion of
foreign currencies to Dollars.

          "Holder" means any Person entitled to enforce any of
the Obligations, whether or not such Person holds any evidence of
Indebtedness, including, without limitation, the Administrative
Agents, the Collateral Agent, each Lender and each Issuing Bank.

          "Indebtedness", as applied to any Person, means, at any
time, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness, obligations or
other liabilities of such Person (i) for borrowed money or
evidenced by debt Securi-ties, debentures, acceptances, notes or
other similar instru-ments, and any accrued interest, fees and
charges relating thereto, (ii) under profit payment agreements or
in respect of obligations to redeem, repurchase or exchange any
Securities of such Person or to pay dividends in respect of any
Capital Stock, (iii) with respect to letters of credit issued for
such Person's account, (iv) to pay the deferred purchase price of
property or services, except accounts payable and accrued
expenses arising in the ordinary course of business, (v) in
respect of Capital Leases, (vi) which are Accommodation
Obligations or (vii) under warranties and indemnities; (b) all
indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities of such Person or
others secured by a Lien on any property of such Person, whether
or not such indebted-ness, obligations or liabili-ties are
assumed by such Person, all as of such time; (c) all
indebtedness, obligations or other liabil-ities of such Person in
respect of interest rate contracts, Hedge Agreements and foreign
exchange contracts, net of liabilities owed to such Person by the
counterpar-ties thereon; and (d) all preferred stock subject
(upon the occurrence of any contingency or otherwise) to
mandatory redemp-tion.

          "Indebtedness for Borrowed Money" means, with respect
to any Person, to the extent the following would be reflected on
a balance sheet of such Person and its Subsidiaries prepared in
accordance with GAAP, the principal amount of all Indebtedness of
such Person in respect of borrowed money, evidenced by debt
securities, debentures, acceptances, notes or other similar
instruments, in respect of Capital Lease obligations, in respect
of Reimbursement Obligations or in respect of the deferred
purchase price of property or services, except accounts payable
and accrued expenses arising in the ordinary course of business.

          "Indemnified Matters" is defined in Section 15.03.

          "Indemnitees" is defined in Section 15.03.

          "Interest Coverage Ratio" means, for any period, the
ratio of (i) EBITDA for such period to (ii) Cash Interest Expense
for such period.

          "Interest Margin Effective Date" means the date,
determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.04, on
which the Base Rate Margins and Eurodollar Rate Margins
applicable to a given period become effective.

          "Internal Revenue Code" means the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended to the date hereof and from time to time
hereafter, any succes-sor statute and any regulations or guidance
promulgated thereunder.

          "Inventory" means, with respect to any Person, all of
such Person's present and future (i) inventory, (ii) goods,
merchandise and other personal property furnished or to be
furnished under any contract of service or intended for sale or
lease, and all consigned goods and all other items which have
previously constituted Equipment of such Person but are then
currently being held for sale or lease in the ordinary course of
such Person's business, (iii) raw materials, work-in-process and
finished goods, (iv) materials and supplies of any kind, nature
or description used or consumed in such Person's business or in
connection with the manufacture, production, packing, shipping,
advertising, finishing or sale of any of the property described
in clauses (i) through (iii) above, (v) goods in which such
Person has a joint or other interest or right of any kind
(including, without limitation, goods in which such Person has an
interest or right as consignee), and (vi) goods which are
returned to or repossessed by such Person; in each case whether
in the possession of such Person, a bailee, a consignee, or any
other Person for sale, storage, transit, processing, use or
otherwise, and any and all documents for or relating to any of
the foregoing.

          "Investment" means, with respect to any Person, (i) any
purchase or other acquisition by that Person of Securities, or of
a beneficial interest in Securities, issued by any other Person,
(ii) any purchase by that Person of all or substantially all of
the assets of a business conducted by another Person, and (iii)
any capital contribution by that Person to any other Person.  The
amount of any Investment shall be the original cost of such
Investment, plus the cost of all additions thereto less the
amount of any return of capital or principal to the extent such
return is in cash with respect to such Investment without any
adjustments for increases or decreases in value or write-ups,
write-downs or write-offs with respect to such Investment.

          "IRS" means the Internal Revenue Service and any Person
succeeding to the functions thereof.

          "Issuing Banks" means Citibank, each Lender designated
as an "Issuing Bank" on the signature pages hereof or the
signature page of the Assignment and Acceptance by which it
became a Lender, each other Lender or Affiliate of a Lender
approved by the Collateral Agent and the Borrower who has agreed
to become an Issuing Bank for the purpose of issuing Letters of
Credit pursuant to Section 3.01.

          "Kaynar" means Kaynar Technologies Inc., a Delaware
corporation.

          "Kaynar Acquisition" means the merger of Dah Dah, Inc.,
a Delaware corporation and Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the
Borrower, with and into Kaynar, with Kaynar being the surviving
corporation.

          "Kaynar Credit Agreement" means that certain Third
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated October 23, 1998, as
amended, among Kaynar, the other credit parties thereto, the
lenders from time to time parties thereto and General Electric
Capital Corporation.

          "Kaynar Non-Compete Contract" means that certain Voting
and Option Agreement dated as of December 26, 1998 among the
Borrower, General Electric Capital Corporation, Dah Dah, Inc. and
CFE, Inc. executed and delivered in accordance with the terms of
the Kaynar Purchase Agreement.

          "Kaynar Purchase Agreement" means that certain
Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of December 26,
1998 among the Borrower, Dah Dah, Inc., a Delaware corporation,
and Kaynar.

          "Lender" means, as of the Closing Date, each financial
institution signatory hereto as a Lender and, at any other given
time, each financial institution which is a party hereto as a
Lender, whether as a signatory to an amendment hereto or pursuant
to an Assignment and Accept-ance.

          "Letter of Credit" means any Commercial Letter of
Credit or Standby Letter of Credit.

          "Letter of Credit Fee" is defined in Section 5.03(b).

          "Letter of Credit Obligations" means, at any particular
time, the sum of (i) all outstanding Reimbursement Obligations,
plus (ii) the aggregate Dollar equivalent of the undrawn face
amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit, plus (iii) the
aggregate Dollar equivalent of the face amount of all Letters of
Credit requested by the Borrower but not yet issued (unless the
request for an unissued Letter of Credit has been denied by the
Issuing Bank as referenced in Section 3.01(c)(i)).

          "Letter of Credit Reimbursement Agreement" means, with
respect to a Letter of Credit, such form of application therefor
and form of reimbursement agreement therefor (whether in a single
or several documents, taken together) as the Issuing Bank from
which the Letter of Credit is requested may employ in the
ordinary course of business for its own account, with such
modifications thereto as may be agreed upon by the Issuing Bank
and the Borrower and as are not materially adverse (in the
judgment of the Issuing Bank and Collateral Agent) to the
interests of the Lenders; provided, however, in the event of any
conflict between the terms of any Letter of Credit Reimbursement
Agreement and this Agree-ment, the terms of this Agreement shall
control.

          "Liabilities and Costs" means all liabilities,
obligations, responsibilities, losses, damages, personal injury,
death, punitive damages, economic damages, consequential damages,
treble damages, intentional, willful or wanton injury, damage or
threat to the environment, natural resources or public health or
welfare, costs and expenses (includ-ing, without limitation,
attorney, expert and consulting fees and costs and fees and costs
associated with any investigation, feasibility or Remedial Action
studies), fines, penalties and monetary sanctions, interest,
direct or indirect, known or unknown, absolute or contingent,
past, present or future.

          "Lien" means any mortgage, deed of trust, pledge,
hypothecation, assignment, conditional sale agreement, deposit
arrangement, security interest, encumbrance, lien (statutory or
other and including, without limitation, any Environmental Lien),
deed of charge, preference, priority or other security agreement
or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever in
respect of any property of a Person, whether granted voluntarily
or imposed by law, and includes the interest of a lessor under a
Capital Lease or under any financ-ing lease having substantially
the same economic effect as any of the foregoing and the filing
of any financing statement or similar notice (other than a
financing statement filed by a "true" lessor pursuant to ' 9-408
of the Uniform Commercial Code), naming the owner of such
property as debtor, under the Uniform Commercial Code or other
comparable law of any jurisdiction.

          "Loan Account" is defined in Section 4.03(b).

          "Loan Documents" means this Agreement, the Notes, Hedge
Agreements to which any Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender is a
party, depositary account and cash management agreements to which
the Borrower or any Guarantor and any Lender or any Affiliate of
a Lender is a party, and all other instruments, agreements and
written Contractual Obliga-tions between any Guarantor, the
Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Bor-rower, either
Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent, and any of the
Lenders or Issuing Banks delivered to either Administrative
Agent, the Collateral Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank
pursuant to or in connec-tion with the transactions contemplated
hereby.

          "Loans" means all Revolving Loans, Term Loans and Swing
Loans, whether Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans.

          "Margin Stock" means "margin stock" as such term is
defined in Regulation U.

          "Material Adverse Effect" means a material adverse
effect upon (i) the financial condition, operations, assets or
prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated
basis, (ii) the ability of the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries to perform its respective obligations under the Loan
Docu-ments, or (iii) the ability of the Lenders, the Issuing
Banks, or the Collateral Agent to enforce any of the Loan
Documents.

          "Material Subsidiary" means a Restricted Subsidiary of
the Borrower the assets of which have an aggregate book value
equal to or greater than $500,000.

          "MIS" means computerized management information system
for recording and maintenance of information regarding purchases,
sales, aging, categorization, and locations of Inventory,
creation and aging of Receivables, and accounts payable
(including agings thereof).

          "Multiemployer Plan" means a "multiemployer plan" as
defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA (other than a Foreign
Employee Benefit Plan) which (i) is, or within the immediately
preceding six (6) years was, contributed to by either the
Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate or in respect of which the
Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate has assumed any liability and
(ii) is not a Foreign Employee Benefit Plan.

          "Net Cash Proceeds of Issuance of Equity Securities"
means net cash proceeds (including cash, equivalents readily
convertible into cash, and such proceeds of any notes received as
consideration or any other non-cash consideration) received by
the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary at any time on or after
the Closing Date on account of:

     (i) the issuance of equity Securities other than

          (a) equity Securities of a Subsidiary of the Borrower
          issued to the Borrower;

          (b) equity Securities of a Subsidiary of the Borrower
          issued to another Subsidiary of the Borrower; and

          (c) equity Securities of the Borrower issued pursuant
          to Permitted Equity Securities Options, or

     (ii) a contribution to its capital by any Person (other than
     another "Fairchild Affiliate").

For purposes of this definition, "Fairchild Affiliate" means the
Borrower and any direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Borrower.

          "Net Cash Proceeds of Issuance of Indebtedness" means
net cash proceeds (including cash, equivalents readily
convertible into cash, and such proceeds of any notes received as
consideration or any other non-cash consideration) of Indebt-
edness for Borrowed Money (other than such Indebtedness permitted
under Section 10.01) of the Borrower or any Restricted
Subsidiary, in each case net of all transaction costs and under-
writers' discounts and similar fees with respect thereto.

          "Net Cash Proceeds of Sale" means:

     (i) cash proceeds (including cash, equivalents readily
convertible into cash, and such proceeds of any notes received as
consideration or any other non-cash consideration) from the sale,
assignment or other disposition of (but not the lease or license
of) any Property other than sales of property permitted under
Sections 10.02(d) and 10.09, net of (a) the costs of sale,
assignment or other disposi-tion, (b) any income, franchise,
transfer or other tax liability arising from such transaction and
(c) amounts applied to the repayment of Indebtedness (other than
the Obligations) secured by a Lien permitted by Section 10.03 on
the asset disposed of, whether such net proceeds arise from any
individual sale, assignment or other disposition or from any
group of related sales, assignments or other dispositions
received by (1) the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary other
than proceeds of sales of Permitted Dispositions (other than (a)
the Technologies Companies (upon the completion of full
liquidation of all Technologies Companies) and (b) the Banner
Companies (to the extent any mandatory prepayment of Net Cash
Proceeds of Sale of Banner Companies is made as required by
Section 4.01(b)(i)(B)), (2) the Technologies Companies upon the
completion of full liquidation of all Technologies Companies, and
(3) the Banner Companies (whether or not a Restricted Subsidiary)
to the extent any mandatory prepayment of Net Cash Proceeds of
Sale of Banner Companies is made as required by Section
4.01(b)(i)(B); and

     (ii) to the extent provided in Section 9.07(b), proceeds of
insurance on account of the loss of or damage to any such
Property or Properties, and payments of compensation for any such
Property or Properties taken by condemnation or eminent domain.

          "Net Cash Proceeds of Sale of Banner Companies" means
cash proceeds (including cash, equivalents readily convertible
into cash, and such proceeds of any notes received as
consideration or any other non-cash consideration) from the sale,
assignment or other disposition of (but not the lease or license
of) any Property or Capital Stock of the Banner Companies, other
than sales of property permitted under Sections 10.02(d) and
10.09, net of (a) the costs of sale, assignment or other disposi-
tion, (b) any income, franchise, transfer or other tax liability
arising from such transaction and (c) amounts applied to the
repayment of Indebtedness (other than the Obligations) secured by
a Lien permitted by Section 10.03 on the asset disposed of,
whether such net proceeds arise from any individual sale,
assignment or other disposition or from any group of related
sales, assignments or other dispositions.

          "Net Cash Proceeds of Sale of Permitted Dispositions"
means cash proceeds (including cash, equivalents readily
convertible into cash, and such proceeds of any notes received as
consideration or any other non-cash consideration) from the sale,
assignment or other disposition of (but not the lease or license
of) any Property other than sales of property permitted under
Sections 10.02(d) and 10.09, net of (a) the costs of sale,
assignment or other disposi-tion, (b) any income, franchise,
transfer or other tax liability arising from such transaction and
(c) amounts applied to the repayment of Indebtedness (other than
the Obligations) secured by a Lien permitted by Section 10.03 on
the asset disposed of, whether such net proceeds arise from any
individual sale, assignment or other disposition or from any
group of related sales, assignments or other dispositions
received by the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary with
respect to sales of Permitted Dispositions (other than the
Technologies Companies (upon the completion of full liquidation
of all Technologies Companies) and the Banner Companies).

          "Non Pro Rata Loan" is defined in Section 4.02(f).

          "Note" means a promissory note in the form attached
hereto as Exhibit B payable to a Lender, evidencing certain of
the Obligations of the Borrower to such Lender and executed by
the Borrower as required by Section 4.03(a), as the same may be
amended, supplemented, modified or restated from time to time,
and any promissory note issued in substitution therefor; "Notes"
means, collectively, all of such Notes outstanding at any given
time.

          "Notice of Borrowing" means a notice substantially in
the form of Exhibit C attached hereto and made a part hereof.

          "Notice of Conversion/Continuation" means a notice
substantially in the form of Exhibit D attached hereto and made a
part hereof with respect to a proposed conversion or continuation
of a Loan pursuant to Section 5.01(c).

          "Obligations" means all Loans, advances, debts,
liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties owing by the
Borrower to either Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent,
any Lender, any Issuing Bank, any Affiliate of either
Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent, any Lender or any
Issuing Bank, or any Person entitled to indemnification pursuant
to Section 15.03 of this Agreement, of any kind or nature,
present or future, whether or not evidenced by any note, guaranty
or other instrument, arising under this Agreement, the Notes or
any other Loan Document, whether or not for the payment of money,
whether arising by reason of an extension of credit, opening or
amendment of a Letter of Credit or payment of any draft drawn
thereunder, loan, guaranty, indemnification, or in any other
manner, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by
assignment), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now
existing or hereafter arising and however acquired and all
liabilities and obligations owing by the Borrower or any
Subsidiary of the Borrower arising with respect to depositary
accounts and cash management systems maintained with any Lender
or any Affiliate of any Lender for the Borrower and/or its
Subsidiaries, under Hedge Agreements entered into between the
Borrower and/or its Subsidiaries and any Lender or any Affiliate
of any Lender, and with respect to credit cards issued by any
Lender or Affiliate of any Lender to the Borrower, any Subsidiary
of the Borrower, or any employee of such Person.  The term
includes, without limita-tion, all interest, charges, expenses,
fees, attor-neys' fees and disbursements and any other sum charge-
able to the Borrower under this Agreement or any other Loan
Document, to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries under any
such Hedge Agreement, and to the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries with respect to any such depositary accounts, cash
management systems and credit cards.

          "Officer's Certificate" means, as to a corporation, a
certificate executed on behalf of such corporation by the chair-
man or vice-chairman of its board of directors (if an officer of
such corporation) or its presi-dent, any of its vice presidents,
or its treasurer.

          "Operating Lease" means, as applied to any Person, any
lease of any property (whether real, personal or mixed) by that
Person as lessee which is not a Capital Lease.
          "Operating Units" means, collectively, those segments
of the Borrower's business known as (i) Fairchild Fasteners Group
as more particularly described on Schedule 1.01.4 attached hereto
and made a part hereof and engaged in the business of
manufacturing and sales of aerospace and industrial fasteners,
(ii) Gas Spring Division as more particularly described on
Schedule 1.01.4, (iii) Fairchild Technologies Group as more
particularly described on Schedule 1.01.4, and (iv) Banner
Aerospace, Inc. as more particularly described on Schedule
1.01.4; and each of the foregoing is an "Operating Unit".

          "Organizational Documents" means, with respect to any
corporation, limited liability company, unlimited liability
company, or partnership (i) the articles/certificate of
incorporation or articles of association (or the equivalent
organizational documents) of such corpora-tion, limited liability
company, or unlimited liability company, (ii) the partnership
agreement executed by the partners in the partnership, (iii) the
by-laws (or the equivalent governing documents) of the
corporation, limited liability company, unlimited liability
company, or partnership, and (iv) any document setting forth the
designation, amount and/or relative rights, limitations and
preferences of any class or series of such corporation's Capital
Stock or such limited liability company's, unlimited liability
company's or partnership's equity or ownership interests.

          "OSHA" means the Occupational Safety and Health Act of
1970, 29 U.S.C. '' 651 et seq., any amendments thereto, any
successor statutes and any regulations or guidance promulgated
thereunder.

          "PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
and any Person succeeding to the functions thereof.

          "Permits" means any permit, approval, authorization
license, variance, or permission required from a Governmental
Authority or other Person under an applicable Requirement of Law.

          "Permitted Dispositions" means the sale, lease,
transfer or other disposition of the operations and/or assets
and/or Investments identified on Schedule 1.01.5 attached hereto
and made a part hereof.

          "Permitted Equity Securities Options" means the
subscriptions, options, warrants, rights, convertible securities
and other agreements or commitments relating to the issuance of
equity Securities identified on Schedule 1.01.6 attached hereto
and made a part hereof.

          "Permitted Existing Indebtedness" means the Indebted-
ness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries identified on Schedule
1.01.7 attached hereto and made a part hereof.

          "Permitted Existing Investments" means those Invest-
ments identified as such on Schedule 1.01.8 attached hereto and
made a part hereof.

          "Permitted Existing Liens" means the Liens on assets of
the Subsidiaries of the Borrower identified on Schedule 1.01.9
attached hereto and made a part hereof.

          "Permitted Holders" means (i) Jeffrey J. Steiner (ii)
any member of Jeffrey J. Steiner's immediate family or any of his
lineal descendants, (iii) any trust or estate the principal
beneficiaries of which are Persons referred to in clauses (i) and
(ii), (iv) in the event of the incompetence or death of any of
the Persons described in clauses (i) or (ii), such Person's
estate, executor, administrator, committee or other personal
representative or beneficiaries, and (v) and Affiliate or
"associate" (as defined in the Securities Exchange Act) of the
Persons described in clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv).

          "Person" means any natural person, corporation, limited
liability company, unlimited liability company, limited
partnership, general partnership, joint stock company, joint
venture, association, company, trust, bank, trust company, land
trust, business trust or other organization, whether or not a
legal entity, and any Governmental Authority.

          "Plan" means an employee benefit plan defined in
Section 3(3) of ERISA (other than a Foreign Employee Benefit
Plan) (i) in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affil-
iate is, or within the immediately preceding six (6) years was,
an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA or the Borrower
or any ERISA Affiliate has assumed any liability and (ii) which
is not a Foreign Employee Benefit Plan.

          "Potential Event of Default" means an event which, with
the giving of notice or the lapse of time, or both, would consti-
tute an Event of Default.

          "Pro Forma Balance Sheet" means, collectively, the
unaudited pro forma estimated opening balance sheet, as of April
20, 1999, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries attached hereto as
Exhibit E, prepared in accordance with GAAP, dated the Closing
Date, and giving effect to the extensions of credit contemplated
hereby, the issuance of the Senior Subordinated Notes, the
payment of the Refinanced Indebtedness, the cash purchase price
under the Kaynar Purchase Agreement, and the Banner Exchange.

          "Projections" means the financial projections for the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries and assumptions prepared by the
Borrower attached hereto as Exhibit F.

          "Property" means any Real Property or personal prop-
erty, plant, building, facility, structure, underground storage
tank or unit, Equipment, Inventory, General Intangible,
Receivable, or other asset owned, leased or operated by the
Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower, as applicable,
(including any surface water thereon, and soil and groundwater
thereunder).

          "Pro Rata Share" means, with respect to any Lender, the
percentage obtained by dividing (i) the sum of such Lender's
Revolving Credit Commitment (as adjusted from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement or any
Assignment and Acceptance to which such Lender is a party) plus
the outstanding principal balance of such Lender's Term Loan, by
(ii) the sum of the aggregate amount of all of the Revolving
Credit Commitments plus the outstanding balance of all Term
Loans; provided, however, that, in the event the Revolving Credit
Commitments have been terminated pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement, "Pro Rata Share" shall be determined based upon the
Revolving Credit Commitments in effect immediatly prior to such
termination.

          "Protective Advance" is defined in Section 13.09(a).

          "RCRA" means the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
of 1976, 42 U.S.C. '' 6901 et seq., any amendments thereto, any
successor statutes, and any regulations promulgated thereunder.

          "Real Property" means, with respect to any Person, all
of such Person's present and future right, title and interest
(including, without limitation, any leasehold estate) in (i) any
plots, pieces or parcels of land, (ii) any improvements,
buildings, structures and fixtures now or hereafter located or
erected thereon or attached thereto of every nature whatsoever
(the rights and interests described in clauses (i) and (ii) above
being the "Premises"), (iii) all easements, rights of way, gores
of land or any lands occupied by streets, ways, alleys, passages,
sewer rights, water courses, water rights and powers, and public
places adjoining such land, and any other interests in property
constituting appurtenances to the Premises, or which hereafter
shall in any way belong, relate or be appurtenant thereto, (iv)
all hereditaments, gas, oil, minerals (with the right to extract,
sever and remove such gas, oil and minerals), and easements, of
every nature whatsoever, located in or on the Premises and (v)
all other rights and privileges thereunto belonging or apper-
taining and all extensions, additions, improvements, betterments,
renewals, substitutions and replace-ments to or of any of the
rights and interests described in clauses (iii) and (iv) above.

          "Receivables" means, with respect to any Person, all of
such Person's present and future (i) accounts, (ii) contract
rights, chattel paper, instruments, documents, deposit accounts,
and other rights to payment of any kind, whether or not arising
out of or in connection with the sale or lease of goods or the
rendering of services, and whether or not earned by performance,
(iii) any of the foregoing which are not evidenced by instruments
or chattel paper, (iv) intercompany receivables, and any security
documents executed in connection therewith, (v) proceeds of any
letters of credit or insurance policies on which such Person is
named as beneficiary, (vi) claims against third parties for
advances and other financial accommodations and any other
obligations whatsoever owing to such Person, (vii) rights in and
to all security agreements, leases, guarantees, instruments,
securities, documents of title and other contracts securing,
evidencing, supporting or otherwise relating to any of the
foregoing, together with all rights in any goods, merchandise or
Inventory which any of the foregoing may represent, and (viii)
rights in returned and repossessed goods, merchandise and
Inventory which any of the same may represent, including, without
limitation, any right of stoppage in transit.

          "Refinanced Indebtedness" means (i) all Indebtedness
outstanding pursuant to the Banner Credit Agreement, other than
contingent obligations with respect to the letters of credit
issued thereunder, (ii) all Indebtedness outstanding pursuant to
the TFC/RHI/FHC Credit Agreement, other than contingent
obligations with respect to the letters of credit issued
thereunder (which letters of credit referenced in clauses (i) and
(ii) hereof constitute Letters of Credit), (iii) all Indebtedness
outstanding pursuant to the Kaynar Credit Agreement, other than
contingent obligations with respect to letters of credit issued
thereunder in the event such letters of credit are either cash
collateralized or supported by Letters of Credit, and (iv) all
Indebtedness of BAR DE, Inc. outstanding under any margin loan.

          "Register" is defined in Section 15.01(c).

          "Regulation A" means Regulation A of the Federal
Reserve Board as in effect from time to time.

          "Regulation T" means Regulation T of the Federal
Reserve Board as in effect from time to time.

          "Regulation U" means Regulation U of the Federal
Reserve Board as in effect from time to time.

          "Regulation X" means Regulation X of the Federal
Reserve Board as in effect from time to time.

          "Reimbursement Date" is defined in Section
3.01(d)(i)(A).

          "Reimbursement Obligations" means the aggregate Dollar
equivalent of the non-contingent reimbursement or repayment
obliga-tions of the Borrower with respect to amounts drawn under
Letters of Credit.

          "Release" means any release, spill, emission, leaking,
pumping, pouring, dumping, injection, deposit, disposal,
abandonment, or discarding of barrels, containers or other
receptacles, discharge, emptying, escape, dispersal, leaching or
migration into the indoor or outdoor environment or into or out
of any Property, including the movement of Con-taminants through
or in the air, soil, surface water, groundwater or Property.

          "Remedial Action" means actions required to (i) clean
up, remove, treat or in any other way address Con-taminants in
the indoor or outdoor environment; (ii) pre-vent the Release or
threat of Release or minimize the further Release of
Contaminants; or (iii) investigate and determine if a remedial
response is needed and to design such a response and post-
remedial investigation, monitoring, operation and maintenance and
care.

          "Replacement Proceeds" means the amount of (i) proceeds
of insurance in an amount greater than $500,000 paid on account
of the loss of or damage to any Property and awards of
compensation for Property taken by condemnation or eminent domain
to the extent actually used to replace, rebuild or restore the
Property so lost, damaged or taken, provided that the Borrower
has delivered written notice to the Collateral Agent within 90
days after the Collateral Agent's receipt of the proceeds of such
insurance payment or condemnation award that the owner or
operator of such Property intends to so replace, rebuild or
restore such Property and (ii) insurance paid on account of a
business interruption occurrence to the extent actually used in
the restoration or conduct of the business interrupted.

          "Reportable Event" means any of the events described in
Section 4043(c) of ERISA and the regulations promulgated
thereunder as in effect from time to time other than an event for
which the thirty (30) day notice requirement has been waived by
the PBGC.

          "Requirements of Law" means, as to any Person, the
charter and by-laws or other organizational or governing docu-
ments of such Person, and any law, rule or regulation, or deter-
mination of an arbitrator or a court or other Governmental
Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person
or any of its property or to which such Person or any of its
property is subject including, without limitation, the Securities
Act, the Securities Exchange Act, Regulations T, U and X, ERISA,
the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Worker Adjustment and
Retraining Notification Act, Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990, and any certificate of occupancy, zoning ordinance,
building, environ-mental or land use requirement or Permit and
Environmental, Health or Safety Requirement of Law.

          "Requisite Lenders" means Lenders whose Term Loan Pro
Rata Shares, in the aggregate, are greater than fifty-one percent
(51%) and Lenders whose Revolving Credit Pro Rata Shares, in the
aggregate, are greater than fifty one percent (51%); provided,
however, that, in the event any of the Revolving Lenders shall
have failed to fund its Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share of any
Revolving Loan requested by the Borrower which such Lenders are
obligated to fund under the terms of this Agreement and any such
failure has not been cured, then for so long as such failure
continues, "Requisite Lenders", as it pertains to Revolving
Lenders, means Revolving Lenders (excluding all Revolving Lenders
whose failure to fund their respective Revolving Credit Pro Rata
Shares of such Revolving Loans have not been so cured) whose
Revolving Credit Pro Rata Shares represent more than fifty-one
percent (51%) of the aggregate Revolving Credit Pro Rata Shares
of such Revolving Lenders; provided, further, however, that, in
the event that the Revolving Credit Commitments have been
terminated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, "Requisite
Lenders", as it pertains to Revolving Lenders, means Revolving
Lenders (without regard to such Lenders' performance of their
respective obligations hereunder) whose aggregate ratable shares
(stated as a percentage) of the aggregate outstanding principal
balance of all Revolving Loans are greater than fifty-one percent
(51%).

          "Restricted Junior Payment" means (i) any dividend or
other distribution, direct or indirect, on account of any shares
of any class of Capital Stock of the Borrower or any Restricted
Subsidiary now or hereafter outstanding, except a dividend
payable solely in shares of that class of stock or in any junior
class of stock to the holders of that class, (ii) any sinking
fund or similar payment or other acquisition for value (except to
the extent permitted under Section 10.05), direct or indirect, of
any shares of any class of equity Securities of the Borrower or
any Restricted Subsidiary now or hereafter outstanding, (iii) any
payment or prepay-ment of principal of, premium, if any, or
interest, fees or other charges on or with respect to, and any
redemp-tion, purchase, retirement, defeasance, sinking fund or
similar payment and any claim for rescission with respect to, any
Indebtedness for Borrowed Money of the Borrower or any Restricted
Subsidiary other than the Obligations, the Refinanced
Indebtedness repaid as anticipated by this Agreement, scheduled
payments of principal and interest due with respect to
Indebtedness permitted under Section 10.01(c) - (i), refinancings
of Permitted Existing Indebtedness permitted under Section
10.01(h), and scheduled interest payments due with respect to the
Senior Subordinated Notes, and (iv) any payment made to redeem,
purchase, repurchase or retire, or to obtain the surrender of,
any out-stand-ing warrants, options or other rights to acquire
shares of any class of Capital Stock or other equity Securities
of the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidi-ary now or hereafter
outstand-ing (except to the extent permitted under Section
10.05).

          "Restricted Subsidiaries" means any Subsidiary of the
Borrower other than an Unrestricted Subsidiary. In no event shall
any Unrestricted Subsidiary become a Restricted Subsidiary.

          "Revolving Credit Commitment" means, with respect to
any Lender, the obligation of such Lender to make Revolving Loans
and to participate in Letters of Credit pursuant to the terms and
condi-tions of this Agreement, in an aggregate amount at any time
outstanding which shall not exceed the principal amount set forth
opposite such Lender's name under the heading "Revolving Credit
Commit-ment" on Schedule 1.01.10 attached hereto and made a part
hereof, the signature pages of any amendment hereto, or the
signature page of the Assignment and Acceptance by which it
became a Lender, as modified from time to time pursuant to the
terms of this Agreement or to give effect to any applicable
Assignment and Acceptance, and "Revolving Credit Commitments"
means the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Credit
Commitments of all the Lenders, the maximum amount of which shall
be $100,000,000, as reduced from time to time pursuant to Section
4.01.

          "Revolving Credit Obligations" means, at any par-tic-
ular time, the sum of (i) the outstanding principal amount of the
Revolving Loans at such time, plus (ii) the Letter of Credit
Obligations at such time.

          "Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share" means, with respect
to any Lender, the percentage obtained by dividing (i) such
Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment (in each case, as adjusted
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement or any Assignment and Acceptance to which such Lender
is a party) by (ii) the aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments.

          "Revolving Credit Termination Date" means the earliest
to occur of (i) April 30, 2005 (or, if not a Business Day, the
next preceding Business Day), (ii) the date of termination of the
Revolving Credit Commitments pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement, and (iii) the date of acceleration of the Obligations
pursuant to Section 12.02.

          "Revolving Lender" means each Lender having a Revolving
Credit Commitment.

          "Revolving Loans" is defined in Section 2.01(a).

          "RHI" means RHI Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

          "SBIC" means a corporation formed by the Borrower as
permitted by the terms of Section 10.04(f).

          "Securities" means any Capital Stock, shares, voting
trust certif-icates, partnership certificates or interests,
bonds, debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness,
secured or unsecured, convertible, subordinated or otherwise, or
in general any instruments commonly known as "investment
securities" or "securities", including, without limitation, any
"security" as such term is defined in Section 8-102 of the
Uniform Commercial Code, whether certificated or uncertificated,
or any certificates of interest, shares, or par-tici-pations in
temporary or interim certificates for the purchase or acquisi-
tion of, or any right to subscribe to, purchase or acquire any of
the foregoing, but shall not include the Notes or any other
evidence of the Obliga-tions.
          "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended from time to time, and any successor statute.

          "Securities Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and any successor
statute.

          "Senior Subordinated Note Indenture" means that certain
Indenture dated as of April 20, 1999 between the Borrower and The
Bank of New York, as Trustee, with respect to $225,000,000 10
3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2009.

          "Senior Subordinated Notes" means the senior
subordinated notes in an aggregate face amount of $225,000,000
issued by the Borrower under and pursuant to the Senior
Subordinated Note Indenture and notes issued in exchange therefor
as contemplated by the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture and
related registration rights agreement.

          "Solvent", when used with respect to any Person, means
that at the time of determination:

          (i)  the Fair Market Value of its assets is in
     excess of the total amount of its liabilities
     (including, without limitation, contingent
     liabilities); and

         (ii)  the present fair saleable value of its assets
     is greater than its probable liability on its existing
     debts as such debts become absolute and matured; and

        (iii)  it is then able and expects to be able to pay its
     debts (including, without limitation, contingent debts and
     other commitments) as they mature; and

         (iv)  it has capital sufficient to carry on its business
     as conducted and as proposed to be conducted.

          "Standby Letter of Credit" means any letter of credit
issued by an Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 for the
account of the Borrower or for the account of any Guarantor or
any Subsidiary of the Borrower if the Borrower is jointly and
severally liable for reimbursement of amounts drawn under such
letter of credit, which is not a Commercial Letter of Credit.

          "Subsidiary" of a Person means any corporation, limited
liability company, unlimited liability company, general or
limited partnership, or other entity of which securities or other
owner-ship interests having ordinary voting power to elect a
majority of the board of directors or other Persons performing
similar functions with respect to such entity are at the time
directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person, one or
more of the other subsidiaries of such Person or any combination
thereof.
          "Swing Lender" means either Administrative Agent.

          "Swing Loan Availability" is defined in Section
2.01(c).

          "Swing Loan Reserve" means, at any time, a reserve in
an amount equal to the then outstanding balance of the Swing
Loans.

          "Swing Loans" is defined in Section 2.01(c).

          "Swing Loan Subfacility" means, at any time, an amount
equal to the lesser of (i) $15,000,000 and (ii) the aggregate
amount of the Revolving Credit Commitments of the Administrative
Agents.

          "Taxes" is defined in Section 14.01(a).

          "Technologies Companies" means, collectively, (i)
Fairchild Technologies USA, Inc., a Delaware corporation; (ii)
Fairchild Germany, Inc., a Delaware corporation; (iii) Fairchild
CDI S.A.; (iv) Fairchild Technologies Optical Disc Equipment
Group GmbH until the optical disc equipment business and
operations thereof are transferred to another Technologies
Company; (v) Fairchild Technologies Semiconductor Equipment Group
GmbH; (vi) Convac France S.A.; (vii) Fairchild Technologies
Europe Limited; (viii) Fairchild Technologies Korea Limited; (ix)
Snails, Inc.; (x) MediaDisc S.A.; (xi) CuTek Research, Inc.; and
(xi) those operating Subsidiaries of the Borrower and Persons any
equity Securities of which are owned by the Borrower or any
Subsidiary of the Borrower, or which may be acquired or formed by
a Technology Company after the Closing Date, which are engaged in
the manufacture and sale of equipment used in the manufacture of
semiconductors and optical discs; and "Technologies Company"
means any of the Technologies Companies, individually.

          "Term Lender" means a Lender to which the Borrower is
obligated with respect to a Term Loan.

          "Term Loan" and "Term Loans" are defined in Section
2.01(b).

          "Term Loan Commitment" means, with respect to any
Lender, the obligation of such Lender to make Term Loans pursuant
to the terms and conditions of this Agreement on the Closing Date
in an aggregate amount which shall not exceed the principal
amount set forth opposite such Lender's name under the heading
"Term Loan Commitment" on Schedule 1.01.10 attached hereto and
made a part hereof, and "Term Loan Commitments" means the
aggregate principal amount of the Term Loan Commitments of all
Term Lenders, the maximum amount of which shall be $225,000,000.

          "Term Loan Pro Rata Share" means, with respect to any
Term Lender, the percentage obtained by dividing (i) the
outstanding principal amount of the Term Loan payable to such
Lender by (ii) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all
Term Loans.

          "Term Loan Termination Date" means the earlier of (i)
April 30, 2006 and (ii) the date of acceleration of the
Obligations pursuant to Section 12.02.

          "Termination Event" means (i) a Reportable Event with
respect to any Benefit Plan; (ii) the withdrawal of the Borrower
or any ERISA Affiliate from a Benefit Plan during a plan year in
which such Borrower or such ERISA Affiliate was a "substantial
employer" as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA or the cessa-
tion of operations which results in the termination of employment
of 20% of Benefit Plan participants who are employees of such
Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate; (iii) the imposition of an obli-
gation on the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate under Section 4041
of ERISA to provide affected parties written notice of intent to
terminate a Benefit Plan in a distress termination described in
Section 4041(c) of ERISA; (iv) the institution by the PBGC or any
similar foreign Governmental Authority of proceedings to termi-
nate a Benefit Plan or a Foreign Pension Plan; (v) any event or
condition which could reasonably be expected to constitute
grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or
the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Benefit Plan;
(vi) the appointment by a foreign Governmental Authority of, or
the institution of proceedings by a foreign Governmental
Authority to appoint, a trustee to administer any Foreign Pension
Plan; or (vii) the partial or complete withdrawal of the Borrower
or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or a Foreign
Pension Plan.

          "TFC/RHI/FHC Credit Agreement" means that certain Third
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of December 19,
1997, as amended, among the Borrower, RHI and FHC, as borrowers,
Citicorp and NationsBank as administrative agents, Citicorp as
collateral agent, and certain financial institutions as lenders
and issuing banks thereunder.

          "Uniform Commercial Code" means the Uniform Commercial
Code as enacted in the State of New York, as it may be amended
from time to time.

          "Unrestricted Subsidiaries" means, as of any given
time, (i) all of the Technologies Companies other than Fairchild
Technologies Optical Disc Equipment Group GmbH, (ii) any
Subsidiary of the Borrower that at the time of determination
shall be or continues to be designated an Unrestricted Subsidiary
by the Board of Directors of the Borrower as permitted by Section
8.06 and (iii) all Subsidiaries of an Unrestricted Subsidiary.

          "Unrestricted Subsidiaries Net Investment Amount"
means, as of any date of determination, the amount equal to sum
of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all intercompany loans
made to, and Accommodation Obligations incurred for the benefit
of, all Unrestricted Subsidiaries during the period commencing on
the Closing Date and ending on such date of determination, plus
(ii) the aggregate amount of all capital contributions (whether
made in cash or property valued at its Fair Market Value at the
time of contribution) made, directly or indirectly, by the
Borrower to all Unrestricted Subsidiaries during the period
commencing on the Closing Date and ending on such date of
determination minus (a) the aggregate amount of all repayments in
cash of principal of such intercompany loans made and the
aforesaid Accommodation Obligations released after the Closing
Date and (b) all returns on capital paid in cash after the
Closing Date in respect of such capital contributions; provided,
however, that in the case of dividends paid by an Unrestricted
Subsidiary, the amount of such dividends shall not be included in
the aforesaid calculation if the same are included in the
determination of EBITDA as provided in the definition of such
term.  For purposes of the aforesaid calculation, (1) no loans or
capital contributions to any Technologies Company or repayments
of loans or returns on capital paid in cash by any Technologies
Company shall in any event be included in such calculation and
(2) the subject Unrestricted Subsidiaries shall include all
Unrestricted Subsidiaries (other than Technologies Companies) as
of the time of determination after giving effect to the
designation specified in the notice delivered under Section 8.06.

          "Voting Stock" of a Person means all classes of Capital
Stock or other interests (including partnership interests) of
such person then outstanding and normally entitled (without
regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the
election of directors, managers or trustees thereof.

          "Wholly-Owned Subsidiary" means a corporation (i) one
hundred percent (100%) of the Capital Stock or other equity
Securities of which is owned by the Person of which it is a
Subsidiary or (ii) greater than ninety-five percent (95%) of the
Capital Stock or other equity Securities of which is owned by the
Person of which it is a Subsidiary and the remainder of which
Capital Stock or other equity Securities is owned by a nominee of
such Person solely to comply with the Requirements of Law of the
jurisdiction governing such corporation's organization and
existence.

          1.02.  Computation of Time Periods.??  In this
Agreement, in the computation of periods of time from a specified
date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and
including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but
excluding".  Periods of days referred to in this Agreement shall
be counted in calendar days unless Business Days are expressly
prescribed.  Any period determined hereunder by reference to a
month or months or year or years shall end on the day in the
relevant calendar month in the relevant year, if applicable,
immediately preceding the date numerically corresponding to the
first day of such period; provided that if such period commences
on the last day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there
is no numerically corresponding day in the calen-dar month during
which such period is to end), such period shall, unless otherwise
expressly required by the other provi-sions of this Agreement,
end on the last day of the calendar month.

          1.03.  Accounting Terms; Financial Term Definitions.??
Subject to Section 15.04, for purposes of this Agree-ment, all
accounting terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the
meanings assigned to them in conformity with GAAP.

          1.04.  Other Terms.??  All other terms contained in
this Agreement shall, unless the context indicates otherwise,
have the meanings assigned to such terms by the Uniform
Commercial Code to the extent the same are defined therein.

          1.05.  Dollar Equivalents.??  For purposes of Dollar
designations or Dollar equivalent designations in this Agreement,
all calculations thereof shall be determined, with respect to
amounts otherwise denominated in a non-U.S. currency, based on
the amount of Dollars required to purchase such amount of non-
U.S. currency at the Exchange Rate therefor which is in effect on
the date of determination.



                           ARTICLE II
                   AMOUNTS AND TERMS OF LOANS


          2.01.  Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Swing Loan
Facilities.??  (a) Revolving Loans.  Subject to the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement, each Revolving Lender
hereby severally and not jointly agrees to make revolving loans,
in Dollars (each individually, a "Revolving Loan" and, collec-
tively, the "Revolving Loans") to the Borrower from time to time
during the period from the Closing Date to the Business Day next
preceding the Revolving Credit Termination Date, in an amount not
to exceed such Lender's Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share of the
Availability.  All Revolving Loans comprising the same Borrow-ing
under this Agreement shall be made by the Lenders simultane-ously
and proportionately to their then respective Revolving Credit Pro
Rata Shares, it being understood that no Lender shall be
responsible for any failure by any other Lender to perform its
obligation to make a Loan hereunder nor shall the Revolving
Credit Commitment of any Lender be increased or decreased as a
result of any such failure.  Subject to the provisions of this
Agreement, the Borrower may repay any outstanding Revolving Loan
on any day which is a Business Day and any amounts so repaid may
be reborrowed, up to the amount of the Availability at the time
of such Borrowing, until the Business Day next preceding the
Revolving Credit Termination Date; provided, however, the
Borrower shall, without notice or demand of any kind, immediately
make such repayments of the Revolving Loans to the extent
necessary such that the Revolving Credit Obligations at no time
exceed the Revolving Credit Commitments.  Each requested
Borrowing of Revolving Loans funded on any Funding Date therefor
shall be (i) if Base Rate Loans, in a principal amount of at
least $100,000 and in integral multiples of $100,000 in excess of
that amount and (ii) if Eurodollar Rate Loans, in a principal
amount of at least $1,000,000 and in integral multiples of
$100,000 in excess of that amount.

          (b)  Term Loans.  (i) Amount of the Term Loans. Subject
to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, each
Term Lender hereby severally and not jointly agrees to make Term
Loans, in Dollars (each such loan, individually, a "Term Loan"
and, collectively, the "Term Loans") to the Borrower on the
Closing Date in the aggregate principal amount equal to its
respective Term Loan Commitment, such Term Loans requested in a
given Notice of Borrowing to be made simultaneously, it being
understood that no Lender shall be responsible for any failure by
any other Lender to perform its obligation to make a Term Loan
hereunder nor shall the Term Loan Commitment of any Lender be
increased or decreased as a result of any such failure.

          (ii) Repayment of Term Loans. The outstanding balance
of the Term Loans shall be repaid in nine (9) installments in the
aggregate amounts set forth below on the dates set forth below
with a final payment on April 30, 2006 unless the Term Loan
Termination Date occurs prior to any such date, in which case all
outstanding Term Loans shall be due and payable on the Term Loan
Termination Date:

     Installment Due Date          Aggregate Installment

     April 30, 2000                $2,250,000

     April 30, 2001                $2,250,000

     April 30, 2002                $2,250,000

     April 30, 2003                $2,250,000

     April 30, 2004                $2,250,000

     April 30, 2005                $2,250,000

     July 31, 2005                 $52,875,000

     October 30, 2005              $52,875,000

     January 31, 2006              $52,875,000

     April 30, 2006                $52,875,000

In addition to the scheduled payments on the Term Loans, the
Borrower may make voluntary prepayments as and when described in
Section 4.01(a)(i) and shall make the mandatory prepayments
required in Section 4.01(b), for credit against such scheduled
payments on the Term Loans pursuant to the provisions of Section
4.01(a)(i) or Section 4.01(b)(vii), as applicable.

          (c)  Swing Loans. (i)  Amount.  Subject to the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement, a Swing Lender, in
its sole discretion, may from time to time after the Closing Date
make loans, in Dollars, to the Borrower solely for such Swing
Lender's own account (the "Swing Loans") up to an aggregate
principal amount at any one time outstanding equal to the least
of (A) fifty percent (50%) of the Swing Loan Subfacility, (B)
such Swing Lender's unfunded Revolving Credit Commitment, and (C)
the unfunded Revolving Credit Commitments as of the time such
Swing Loans are requested (such least amount being referred to as
the "Swing Loan Availability"); provided that in no event shall
the amount of Swing Loans advanced to the Borrower at any given
time exceed the amount of the Availability at such time prior to
giving effect to such Swing Loans. All Swing Loans shall be Base
Rate Loans and be payable, together with accrued interest
thereon, on such Swing Lender's demand therefor.

          (ii) Making of Swing Loans.  Neither Swing Lender shall
have any duty to make or to continue to make Swing Loans at any
time. In the event a Swing Lender determines to make any Swing
Loan after Borrower's request therefor, the Swing Lender shall
make the proceeds of such Swing Loan available to the Borrower at
the Collateral Agent's office in New York, New York and shall
disburse such proceeds in accordance with the Borrower's
disbursement instructions set forth in the applicable Notice of
Borrowing. Neither Swing Lender shall make any Swing Loan at any
time if such Swing Lender shall have received a written notice
from any Lender or shall otherwise have actual knowledge before
funding such Swing Loan that one or more of the conditions
precedent set forth in Section 6.02 will not be satisfied on the
proposed Funding Date for such Swing Loan, but neither Swing
Lender shall otherwise be required to take any action to
determine that the conditions precedent set forth in Section 6.02
have been satisfied prior to making any Swing Loan.

          (iii)  Repayment of Swing Loans.  (A) From time to time
when Swing Loans are outstanding, the Swing Lenders shall, at
their discretion, notify the Collateral Agent of their request
for repayment thereof, whereupon the Collateral Agent shall
notify the Revolving Lenders of such request as set forth below.
On the proposed purchase date set forth in such notice, and on
the Revolving Credit Termination Date, each Revolving Lender
shall irrevocably and unconditionally purchase from such Swing
Lender(s), without recourse or warranty, an undivided interest
and participation in such Swing Loan to the extent of such
Revolving Lender's Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share thereof. The
aforesaid request by the Swing Lender shall be made by written
notice to the Collateral Agent (which may be delivered by
facsimile transmission) or telephone to the Collateral Agent
(with written confirmation thereof by facsimile transmission),
which notice shall specify a proposed purchase date and be
delivered to the Collateral Agent no later than 12:00 noon at
least one (1) Business Day in advance of such proposed purchase
date. Promptly after receipt of such notice, the Collateral Agent
shall notify the Revolving Lenders of the requested purchase and
each Revolving Lender shall deposit an amount equal to its
Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share of the applicable Swing Loan with
the Collateral Agent at its office in New York, New York, in
immediately available funds not later than 1:00 p.m. (New York
time) on the proposed purchase date. The Collateral Agent shall
thereupon (regardless of whether the conditions precedent set
forth in Section 6.02 are then satisfied) remit such amount to
the Swing Lender(s) in immediately available funds. If such
amount is not made available by any Revolving Lender to the
Collateral Agent for remittance to the Swing Lender(s) as
described above, the Swing Lender shall be entitled to recover
such amount on demand from such Revolving Lender, together with
accrued interest thereon, for each day from the date of demand,
at the Federal Funds Rate for the first three (3) days following
the date such amount was due and thereafter at the Base Rate. The
failure of any Revolving Lender to pay such amount to the Swing
Lender(s) shall not relieve any other Revolving Lender of its
obligation to make the payment to be made by it. Upon the
purchase of a Revolving Lender of a participation in any Swing
Loan pursuant to this Section 2.01(c)(iii), such Revolving Lender
shall be deemed to have made a Revolving Loan in the amount of
such participation, and such Swing Loan shall be deemed to have
been repaid in such amount.

          (B)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Section 2.01(c), Borrower shall, whether or not a Swing Lender
shall have made demand therefor, on the Revolving Credit
Termination Date repay in full the principal amount of the Swing
Loans then outstanding together with interest thereon.


          2.02.  General Terms.??  (a)  Notice of Borrowing.
When the Borrower desires to borrow under Section 2.01, the
Borrower shall deliver to the Collateral Agent a Notice of
Borrowing, signed on behalf of the Borrower, (i) on the Closing
Date, in the case of a Borrowing on the Closing Date, (ii) no
later than 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the proposed Funding
Date therefor, in the case of a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans
after the Closing Date, and (iii) no later than 11:00 a.m. (New
York time) at least three (3) Business Days in advance of the
proposed Funding Date therefor, in the case of a Borrowing of
Eurodollar Rate Loans after the Closing Date.  Such Notice of
Borrowing shall specify (i) the proposed Funding Date (which
shall be a Business Day), (ii) the amount of the proposed
Borrowing and whether the Borrowing is of Term Loans or Revolving
Loans, (iii) in the case of Revolving Loans, the Availability as
of the date of such Notice of Borrowing, (iv) whether the
proposed Borrowing will be of Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate
Loans, (v) in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, the requested
Eurodollar Interest Period, and (vi) the instructions for the
disbursement of the proceeds of the proposed Borrowing. The Loans
made on the Closing Date shall initially be Base Rate Loans and
there-after may be continued as Base Rate Loans or converted into
Eurodollar Rate Loans, in the manner provided in Section 5.01(c)
and subject to the conditions therein set forth and in Section
5.02.  In lieu of delivering such a Notice of Borrowing (except
with respect to a Borrowing of Loans on the Closing Date), the
Borrower may give the Collateral Agent telephonic notice of any
proposed Bor-rowing by the time required under this Section
2.02(a), if the Borrower confirms such notice by delivery of the
required Notice of Borrowing to the Collateral Agent by facsimile
transmission promptly, but in no event later than 5:00 p.m. (New
York time) on the same day, the original of which facsimile copy
shall be delivered to the Collateral Agent within fourteen (14)
days after the date of such transmission.  Any Notice of
Borrowing (or telephonic notice in lieu thereof) given pursuant
to this Section 2.02(a) shall be irrevocable.  Notwithstanding
the foregoing, in the event a Notice of Borrowing is delivered to
the Collateral Agent after 11:00 a.m. (New York time) but by 3:00
p.m. (New York time) on any specified Funding Date, Citicorp, as
a Swing Lender, shall have the first option to make a Swing Loan
to fund the requested Borrowing, subject to the limitations set
forth in Section 2.01(c)(i), and, in the event Citicorp elects
not to make such Swing Loan or Citicorp has Swing Loans
aggregating the maximum available from it pursuant to Section
2.01(c)(i) outstanding on the Funding Date for the requested
Borrowing, NationsBank shall have the option to make such Swing
Loan.

          (b)  Making of Term Loans and Revolving Loans.  (i)
Promptly after receipt of a Notice of Borrowing under Section
2.02(a) (or telephonic notice in lieu thereof), the Collateral
Agent shall notify each applicable Lender, by telecopy, or other
similar form of trans-mission, of the proposed Borrowing.  Each
Lender obligated to make a Loan with respect to the requested
Borrowing shall deposit an amount equal to its Term Loan Pro Rata
Share or Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share, as applicable, of the
respective Term Loan or Revolving Loan amount requested with the
Collateral Agent at its office in New York, New York, in
immediately available funds not later than 2:00 p.m. (New York
time) on the applicable Funding Date therefor.  Subject to the
fulfillment of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 6.01
or Section 6.02, as applicable, the Collateral Agent shall make
the proceeds of such amounts received by it with respect to Loans
available to the Borrower at the Collateral Agent's office in New
York, New York on such Funding Date (or on the date received if
later than such Funding Date) and shall disburse such proceeds in
accordance with the Borrower's disburse-ment instructions set
forth in the applicable Notice of Borrow-ing. The failure of any
Lender to deposit the amount described above with the Collateral
Agent on the applicable Funding Date shall not relieve any other
Lender of its obligations hereunder to make its Loan on such
Funding Date. In the event the conditions precedent set forth in
Section 6.01  or 6.02, as applicable, are not fulfilled as of the
proposed Funding Date for any Borrowing, the Collateral Agent
shall promptly return, by wire transfer of immediately available
funds, the amount deposited by each Lender to such Lender.

          (ii)  Unless the Collateral Agent shall have been
notified by any Lender (A) on the Business Day immediately
preceding the applicable Funding Date in respect of any Borrowing
of Loans which are Eurodollar Rate Loans or (B) prior to the time
of funding thereof as specified in Section 2.02(a) in respect of
any Borrowing of Loans which are Base Rate Loans, that such
Lender does not intend to fund its Loan requested to be made on
such Funding Date, the Collateral Agent may assume that such
Lender has funded its Loan and is depositing the proceeds thereof
with the Collateral Agent on the Funding Date therefor, and the
Collateral Agent, in its sole discretion may, but shall not be
obli-gated to, disburse a corresponding amount to the Borrower on
the applicable Funding Date.  If the Loan pro-ceeds corresponding
to that amount are advanced to the Borrower by the Collateral
Agent but are not in fact deposited with the Collateral Agent by
such Lender on or prior to the applicable Funding Date, such
Lender agrees to pay, and in addition the Borrower agrees to
repay, to the Collateral Agent, forthwith on demand such
corresponding amount, together with interest thereon, for each
day from the date such amount is disbursed to or for the benefit
of the Borrower until the date such amount is paid or repaid to
the Collateral Agent (A) in the case of the Borrower, at the
interest rate applicable to such Borrowing and (B) in the case of
such Lender, at the Federal Funds Rate for the first Business Day
after the applicable Funding Date, and thereafter at the interest
rate applicable to such Borrowing.  If such Lender shall pay to
the Collateral Agent the corresponding amount, the amount so paid
shall constitute such Lender's Loan, and if both such Lender and
the Borrower shall pay and repay such corresponding amount, the
Collateral Agent shall promptly pay to the Borrower such
corresponding amount.  This Section 2.02(b) does not relieve any
Lender of its obligation to make its Loan on any applicable
Funding Date.

          (c)  Revolv-ing Credit Termination Date.  The Revolving
Credit Commitments shall terminate on the Revolving Credit
Termination Date and each Revolving Lender's obliga-tion to make
Revolving Loans shall terminate on the Business Day next
preceding the Revolving Credit Termination Date. All outstanding
Obligations shall be paid in full (or, in the case of unmatured
Letter of Credit Obliga-tions, provision for payment in cash
shall be made as provided in Section 3.01(a)(iv)) (i) if the
Revolving Credit Commitments are terminated pursuant to Section
4.01, on the date such termination is effective and (ii)
otherwise, on the earlier to occur of (A) April 30, 2005 or, if
not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day, and (B) the
date of acceleration of the Obligations pursuant to Section
12.02.

          2.03.  Authorized Officers and Collateral Agent.??
On?? the Closing Date the Borrower shall deliver, and from time
to time thereafter the Borrower may deliver, to the Collateral
Agent an Officer's Certificate setting forth the names of the
officers, employees and agents authorized to request Loans and
Letters of Credit and to request a conversion/con-tinu-a-tion of
any Loan, in each instance containing a specimen signature of
each such officer, employee or agent.  The officers, employees
and agents so authorized shall also be author-ized to act for the
Borrower in respect of all other matters relating to the Loan
Documents.  The Administrative Agents, Collateral Agent, Lenders
and Issuing Banks shall be entitled to rely conclusively on such
officer's, employee's, or agent's authority to request such Loan
or Letter of Credit or such conver-sion/continuation until the
Administrative Agents, Collateral Agent, Lenders and Issuing
Banks receive written notice to the contrary.  None of either
Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Lenders, or the
Issuing Banks shall have any duty to verify the authenticity of
the signa-ture appearing on any such Officer's Certificate,
written Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Conversion/Continuation,
or any other document, and, with respect to an oral request for
such a Loan or Letter of Credit or such conversion/con-tinuation,
the Collateral Agent shall have no duty to verify the identity of
any person representing himself or herself as one of the
officers, employees or agents authorized to make such request or
otherwise to act on behalf of the Borrower.  None of either
Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Lenders or
Issuing Banks shall incur any liability to the Borrower or any
other Person in acting upon any telephonic or facsimile notice
referred to above which such Administrative Agent, the Collateral
Agent, such Lender, or such Issuing Bank believes to have been
given by a duly author-ized officer or other person authorized to
borrow on behalf of the Borrower.

          2.04.  Use of Proceeds of Loans.??  The proceeds of the
Revolving Loans and Term Loans shall be used for working capital
in the ordinary course of the respective businesses of the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries or for other lawful general
corporate purposes not prohibited by the terms of this Agreement,
including, without limitation, repayment in full on the Closing
Date of the Refinanced Indebtedness as reflected on Exhibit G
attached hereto and made a part hereof and payment of the cash
purchase price owing under the Kaynar Purchase Agreement, but
excluding, in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.10,
the purchasing or carrying of Margin Stock within the meaning of
Regulation U. The proceeds of the Swing Loans may be used solely
for working capital in the ordinary course of business of the
Borrower and the Borrower's Subsidiaries.



                          ARTICLE III
                       LETTERS OF CREDIT


          3.01.  Letters of Credit.??  Subject to the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement, each Issuing Bank hereby
severally agrees to issue for the account of the Borrower, or for
the account of any Guarantor or any of the Borrower's
Subsidiaries if the Borrower is jointly and severally liable for
reimbursement of amounts drawn under such Letter of Credit, one
or more Letters of Credit, subject to the following provisions:

          (a)  Types and Amounts.  An Issuing Bank shall not have
any obligation to issue, amend or extend, and shall not issue,
amend or extend, any Letter of Credit at any time:

          (i)  if the aggregate Letter of Credit Obligations
     with respect to such Issuing Bank, after giving effect
     to the issuance, amendment or extension of the Letter
     of Credit requested hereunder, shall exceed any limit
     imposed by law or regulation upon such Issuing Bank;

          (ii)  if the Issuing Bank receives written notice
     from the Collateral Agent at or before 11:00 a.m. (New
     York time) on the date of the proposed issuance,
     amendment or extension of such Letter of Credit that
     (A) immediately after giving effect to the issuance,
     amendment or extension of such Letter of Credit, (I)
     the Letter of Credit Obligations at such time would
     exceed $40,000,000 or (II) the Availability at such
     time would be less than zero, or (B) one or more of the
     conditions precedent con-tained in Sections 6.01 or
     6.02, as applicable, would not on such date be
     satisfied, unless such conditions are thereafter
     satisfied and written notice of such satisfaction is
     given to the Issuing Bank by the Collateral Agent (and
     an Issuing Bank shall not otherwise be required to
     deter-mine that, or take notice whether, the conditions
     precedent set forth in Sections 6.01 or 6.02, as
     applicable, have been satis-fied);

          (iii)  which is in a currency other than a
     currency in which such Issuing Bank is then issuing
     letters of credit; or

          (iv)  which has an expiration date later than the
     earlier to occur of (A) the date one (1) year after the date
     of issuance (without regard to any automatic renewal
     provisions thereof) and (B) the Revolving Credit Termination
     Date; provided, however, that on the Revolving Credit
     Termination Date, Borrower shall deposit with the Collateral
     Agent (or respective Issuing Bank(s) at the direction of the
     Collateral Agent) Cash Collateral for deposit in the Cash
     Collateral Account or under other agreements satisfactory to
     the Collateral Agent and Issuing Bank(s) and in an amount
     equal to one hundred five percent (105%) of the then undrawn
     face amount of all Letters of Credit denominated in Dollars
     and one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the then undrawn
     face amount of all Letters of Credit denominated in any
     currency other than Dollars, in each instance for all
     Letters of Credit which will continue outstanding after the
     Revolving Credit Termination Date, plus Letter of Credit
     Fees with respect to such Letters of Credit for the period
     commencing on the Revolving Credit Termination Date through
     the expiry date of such Letters of Credit.

          (b)  Conditions.  In addition to being subject to the
satisfaction of the conditions precedent contained in Sections
6.01 and 6.02, as applicable, the obligation of an Issuing Bank
to issue, amend or extend any Letter of Credit is subject to the
satisfaction in full of the following conditions:

          (i)  if the Issuing Bank so requests, the Borrower
     or, in the case of Letters of Credit issued for the
     account of a Guarantor or any of the Borrower's
     Subsidiaries, the Borrower and such Guarantor or
     Subsidiary shall have executed and delivered to such
     Issuing Bank and the Collateral Agent a Letter of
     Credit Reimburse--ment Agreement and such other docu-
     ments and materials as may be required pursuant to the
     terms thereof; and

          (ii)  the terms of the proposed Letter of Credit
     shall be satisfactory to the Issuing Bank in its sole
     discretion.

          (c)  Issuance of Letters of Credit.  (i)  The Borrower
shall give an Issuing Bank and the Collateral Agent written
notice that it has selected such Issuing Bank to issue a Letter
of Credit not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the third
(3rd) Business Day preceding the requested date for issuance
thereof under this Agreement, or such shorter notice as may be
acceptable to such Issuing Bank and the Collateral Agent.  Such
notice shall be irrevocable unless and until such request is
denied by the applicable Issuing Bank and shall specify (A) that
the requested Letter of Credit is either a Commercial Letter of
Credit or a Standby Letter of Credit, (B) that such Letter of
Credit is solely for the account of the Borrower or the name of
the Guarantor or Subsidiary of the Borrower which is jointly and
severally applying for such Letter of Credit, (C) the stated
amount of the Letter of Credit requested, (D) the effec-tive date
(which shall be a Business Day) of issuance of such Letter of
Credit, (E) the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire
(which shall be a Business Day and no later than the Business Day
immediately preceding the scheduled Revolving Credit Termination
Date), (F) the Person for whose benefit such Letter of Credit is
to be issued, (G) other relevant terms of such Letter of Credit,
(H) the Availability at such time, and (I) the amount of the then
out-standing Letter of Credit Obliga-tions.  Such Issuing Bank
shall notify the Collateral Agent immediately upon receipt of a
written notice from the Borrower requesting that a Letter of
Credit be issued, or that an existing Letter of Credit be
extended or amended and, upon the Collateral Agent's request
therefor, send a copy of such notice to the Collateral Agent.

          (ii)  The Issuing Bank shall give (A) the Collateral
Agent written notice, or telephonic notice confirmed promptly
thereafter in writing, of the issuance, amendment, extension or
cancellation of a Letter of Credit and (B) promptly after
issuance thereof, provide the Collateral Agent with a copy of
each Letter of Credit issued and each amendment thereto.

          (d)  Reimbursement Obligations; Duties of Issuing
Banks.  (i)  Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in
any Letter of Credit Reimbursement Agreement:

          (A)  the Borrower shall reimburse, or cause the
     Guarantor or its Subsidiary for whose account a Letter
     of Credit is issued to reimburse, the Issuing Bank for
     amounts drawn under such Letter of Credit, in Dollars,
     no later than the date (the "Reimbursement Date") which
     is the earlier of (I) the time specified in the
     applicable Letter of Credit Reimbursement Agreement and
     (II) one (1) Business Day after the Borrower receives
     written notice from the Issuing Bank that payment has
     been made under such Letter of Credit by the Issuing
     Bank; and

          (B)  all Reimbursement Obligations with respect to
     any Letter of Credit shall bear interest at the rate
     applicable to Base Rate Loans that are Revolving Loans
     in accordance with Section 5.01(a) from the date of the
     relevant drawing under such Letter of Credit until the
     Reimbursement Date and thereafter at the rate
     applicable to Base Rate Loans in accordance with
     Section 5.01(d).

          (ii)  The Issuing Bank shall give the Collateral Agent
written notice, or telephonic notice confirmed promptly
thereafter in writing, of all drawings under a Letter of Credit
and the payment (or the failure to pay when due) by the Borrower,
the applicable Guarantor, or the Borrower's applicable Subsidiary
on account of a Reimbursement Obligation (which notice the
Collateral Agent shall promptly transmit by telegram, telex,
telecopy or similar transmission to each Lender).

         (iii)  No action taken or omitted in good faith by an
Issuing Bank under or in connection with any Letter of Credit
shall put such Issuing Bank under any resulting liability to any
Lender, the Borrower, a Guarantor, or any of the Borrower's
Subsidiaries or, so long as it is not issued in violation of
Section 3.01(a), relieve any Lender of its obligations hereunder
to such Issuing Bank.  Solely as between the Issuing Banks and
the Lenders, in determining whether to pay under any Letter of
Credit, the respective Issuing Bank shall have no obligation to
the Lenders other than to confirm that any documents required to
be delivered under a respective Letter of Credit appear to have
been deliv-ered and that they appear on their face to comply with
the requirements of such Letter of Credit.

          (e)  Participations.  (i)  Immediately upon issuance by
an Issuing Bank of any Letter of Credit in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this Section 3.01 and on the Closing Date
with respect to the Letters of Credit identified on Schedule 3.02
attached hereto and made a part hereof, each Revolving Lender
shall be deemed to have irrevocably and unconditionally purchased
and received from that Issuing Bank, without recourse or
warranty, an undivided interest and participation in such Letter
of Credit to the extent of such Lender's Revolving Credit Pro
Rata Share, including, without limitation, all obligations of the
Borrower with respect thereto (other than amounts owing to the
Issuing Bank under Section 3.01(g) and Section 5.03(b)) and any
security therefor and guaranty pertaining thereto.

          (ii)  If any Issuing Bank makes any payment under any
Letter of Credit and the Borrower, or the Guarantor or the
Subsidiary of the Borrower for whose account the Letter of Credit
was issued, does not repay such amount to the Issuing Bank on the
Reimbursement Date, the Issuing Bank shall promptly notify the
Collateral Agent, which shall promptly notify each Lender, and
each Revolving Lender shall promptly and unconditionally pay to
the Collateral Agent for the account of such Issuing Bank, in
immediately available funds, the amount of such Lender's
Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share of such payment (net of that
portion of such payment, if any, made by such Lender in its
capacity as an Issuing Bank), and the Collateral Agent shall
promptly pay to the Issuing Bank such amounts received by it, and
any other amounts received by the Collateral Agent for the
Issuing Bank's account, pursuant to this Section 3.01(e). All
amounts so paid to the Issuing Bank shall be deemed to constitute
Revolving Loans. If a Lender does not make its Revolving Credit
Pro Rata Share of the amount of such payment available to the
Collateral Agent, such Lender agrees to pay to the Collateral
Agent for the account of the Issuing Bank, forthwith on demand,
such amount together with interest thereon, for the first Busi-
ness Day after the date such payment was first due at the Federal
Funds Rate, and thereafter at the interest rate then applicable
to Base Rate Loans that are Revolving Loans in accordance with
Section 5.01(a).  The failure of any Lender to make available to
the Collateral Agent for the account of an Issuing Bank its
Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share of any such payment shall neither
relieve any other Lender of its obli-gation hereunder to make
available to the Collateral Agent for the account of such Issuing
Bank such other Lender's Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share of any
payment on the date such payment is to be made nor increase the
obligation of any other Lender to make such payment to the
Collateral Agent.

          (iii)  Whenever an Issuing Bank receives a payment on
account of a Reimbursement Obligation, including any interest
thereon, as to which the Collateral Agent has previously received
payments from any Revolving Lender for the account of such
Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section 3.01(e), such Issuing Bank
shall promptly pay to the Collateral Agent and the Collateral
Agent shall promptly pay to such Lender an amount equal to such
Lender's Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share thereof.  Each such
payment shall be made by such Issuing Bank or the Collateral
Agent, as the case may be, on the Business Day on which such
Person receives the funds paid to such Person pursuant to the
preceding sentence, if received prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York
time) on such Business Day, and otherwise on the next succeeding
Business Day.

          (iv)  Upon the request of any Lender, an Issuing Bank
shall furnish such Lender copies of any Letter of Credit or
Letter of Credit Reimburse-ment Agreement to which such Issuing
Bank is party and such other documentation as reasonably may be
requested by such Lender.

          (v)  The obligations of a Lender to make payments to
the Collateral Agent for the account of any Issuing Bank with
respect to a Letter of Credit shall be irrevocable, shall not be
subject to any qualification or exception whatsoever except
willful misconduct or gross negligence of such Issuing Bank, and
shall be honored in accordance with this Article III
(irrespective of the satisfaction of the conditions described in
Sections 6.01 and 6.02, as applicable) under all circumstances,
including, without limita-tion, any of the following
circumstances:

          (A)  any lack of validity or enforceability of
     this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents;

          (B)  the existence of any claim, setoff, defense
     or other right which the Borrower, any Guarantor or
     Subsidiary of the Borrower may have at any time against
     a beneficiary named in a Letter of Credit or any
     transferee of a beneficiary named in a Letter of Credit
     (or any Person for whom any such transferee may be act-
     ing), the Collateral Agent, the Issuing Bank, any
     Lender, or any other Person, whether in connection with
     this Agreement, any Letter of Credit, the transactions
     contem-plated herein or any unrelated transac-tions
     (including any underly-ing trans-actions between the
     account party and beneficiary named in any Letter of
     Cre-dit);

          (C)  any draft, certificate or any other document
     presented under the Letter of Credit having been
     determined to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or
     insufficient in any respect or any statement therein
     being untrue or inaccu-rate in any respect;

          (D)  the surrender or impairment of any security
     for the performance or observance of any of the terms
     of any of the Loan Documents;

          (E)  any failure by that Issuing Bank to make any
     reports required pursuant to Section 3.01(h) or the
     inaccuracy of any such report; or

          (F)  the occurrence of any Event of Default or
     Potential Event of Default.

          (f)  Payment of Reimbursement Obligations.  (i)  The
Borrower unconditionally agrees to pay, or cause the Guarantor or
Borrower's Subsidiary for whose account a Letter of Credit is
issued to pay, to each Issuing Bank, in Dollars, the amount of
all Reimbursement Obligations, interest and other amounts payable
to such Issuing Bank under or in connection with the Letters of
Credit when such amounts are due and payable, irrespective of any
claim, setoff, defense or other right which the Borrower, such
Guarantor or such Subsidiary of the Borrower may have at any time
against any Issuing Bank or any other Person.

         (ii)  In the event any payment by the Borrower, such
Guarantor, or such Subsidiary received by an Issuing Bank with
respect to a Letter of Credit and distributed by the Collateral
Agent to the Revolving Lenders on account of their participations
is thereafter set aside, avoided or recovered from such Issuing
Bank in connection with any receiver-ship, liquida-tion or
bankruptcy proceeding, each such Lender which received such
distribution shall, upon demand by such Issu-ing Bank, contribute
such Lender's Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share of the amount set
aside, avoided or recovered together with interest at the rate
required to be paid by such Issuing Bank upon the amount required
to be repaid by it.

          (g)  Issuing Bank Charges.  The Borrower shall pay, or
cause the Guarantor or Borrower's Subsidiary for whose account a
Letter of Credit is issued to pay, to each Issuing Bank, solely
for its own account, the standard charges assessed by such
Issuing Bank in connection with the issuance, administration,
amendment and payment or cancellation of Letters of Credit and
such compensation in respect of such Letters of Credit for the
Borrower's, such Guarantor's, or such Subsidiary's account, as
applicable, as may be agreed upon by the Borrower and such
Issuing Bank from time to time.

          (h)  Issuing Bank Reporting Requirements.  Each Issuing
Bank shall, no later than the first (1st) Business Day following
the last day of each calendar month, provide to the Collateral
Agent, the Borrower, and, if requested by a Lender, such Lender,
separate schedules for Commercial Letters of Credit and Standby
Letters of Credit issued as Letters of Credit, in form and
substance reasonably satisfactory to the Collateral Agent,
setting forth the aggregate Letter of Credit Obli-gations
outstanding to it at the end of each day during such month and,
to the extent not otherwise provided in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.01(c)(ii), any informa-tion requested by
the Collateral Agent or the Borrower relating to the date of
issue, account party, amount, expiration date and reference
number of each Letter of Credit issued by it.

          (i)  Indemnification; Exoneration.  (i)  In addition to
all other amounts payable to an Issuing Bank, the Borrower hereby
agrees to defend, indemnify, and save the Collateral Agent, each
Issuing Bank and each Lender harmless from and against any and
all claims, demands, liabilities, penalties, damages, losses
(other than loss of profits), costs, charges and expenses
(including reasona-ble attor-neys' fees but excluding net income
taxes) which the Collateral Agent, such Issuing Bank or such
Lender may incur or be subject to as a conse-quence, direct or
indirect, of (A) the issuance of any Letter of Credit other than
as a result of the gross negli-gence or willful misconduct of the
Issuing Bank, as determined by a court of com-petent
jurisdiction, or (B) the failure of the Issu-ing Bank issuing a
Letter of Credit to honor a drawing under such Letter of Credit
as a result of any act or omission, whether rightful or wrongful,
of any present or future de jure or de facto government or Govern-
mental Authority.

         (ii)  As between the Borrower and any Guarantor or any
of the Borrower's Subsidi-aries for whose account a Letter of
Credit is issued on the one hand and the Collateral Agent, the
Lenders and the Issuing Banks on the other hand, the Borrower
assumes all risks of the acts and omissions of, or misuse of
Letters of Credit by, the respective beneficiaries of the Letters
of Credit.  In furtherance and not in limi-tation of the
foregoing, subject to the provisions of the Letter of Credit
Reimbursement Agreements, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders shall
not be respon-sible for:  (A) the form, validity, legality, suffi-
ciency, accuracy, genuineness or legal effect of any docu-ment
submitted by any party in connection with the application for and
issuance of the Letters of Credit, even if it should in fact
prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insuf-ficient,
inaccurate, fraudulent or forged; (B) the validity, legality or
suffi-ciency of any instrument trans-fer-ring or assigning or
purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights
or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part,
which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason; (C)
failure of the bene-ficiary of a Letter of Credit to comply duly
with condi-tions required in order to draw upon such Letter of
Credit; (D) errors, omissions, interruptions or delays in
transmission or deliv-ery of any mes-sages, by mail, cable,
telegraph, telex or other-wise, whether or not they be in cipher;
(E) errors in interpretation of tech-nical terms; (F) any loss or
delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required
in order to make a drawing under any Letter of Credit or of the
proceeds thereof; (G) the mis-application by the beneficiary of a
Lette-r of Credit of the proceeds of any drawing under such
Letter of Credit; and (H) any consequences arising from causes
beyond the control of the Collateral Agent, the Issuing Banks or
the Lenders.

          3.02.  Transitional Provisions.??  Schedule 3.02
contains a schedule of certain letters of credit issued prior to
the Closing Date by Citibank for the account of the Borrower, a
Guarantor, or for the account of a Subsidiary of the Borrower and
the Borrower hereby acknowledges and confirms that it is, jointly
and severally in the case of letters of credit issued for the
account of a Guarantor or other Subsidiary of the Borrower,
liable for reimbursement of amounts drawn thereunder. Such
letters of credit shall be deemed to be Letters of Credit issued
pursuant to this Agreement and be sub-ject to the provisions
hereof.

          3.03.  Obligations Several.??  The?? obligations of
each Issuing Bank and each Lender under this Article III are
several and not joint, and no Issuing Bank or Lender shall be
responsible for the obligation to issue Letters of Credit or
participation obligation hereunder, respectively, of any other
Issuing Bank or Lender.



                           ARTICLE IV
                    PAYMENTS AND PREPAYMENTS

          4.01.  Prepayments; Reductions in Commitments.
??

           (a)  Voluntary Prepayments/Commitment Reductions.  (i)
Prepayments.  The Borrower may prepay the Revolving Loans in
whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, subject to
the right to reborrow the same in accordance with the provisions
of Section 2.01(a). The Borrower may permanently prepay the
Revolving Loans and Term Loans in whole or in minimum amounts of
$1,000,000 and integral multiples of $1,000,000 in excess of that
amount at any time upon at least three (3) Business Days' prior
written notice to the Collateral Agent from the Borrower (which
the Collateral Agent shall promptly transmit to each Lender),
which notice shall specify the date (which shall be a Business
Day) of prepayment, the aggregate principal amount of the
prepayment, and whether such permanent prepayment is of Revolving
Loans or Term Loans. When notice of prepayment is delivered as
provided herein, the principal amount of the Loans referenced
therein shall become due and payable on the prepayment date
specified in such notice. Voluntary permanent prepayments of the
Revolving Loans shall be allocated ratably to such Loans based on
the then outstanding principal balances thereof and voluntary
prepayments of the Term Loans shall be allocated ratably to the
Term Loans based on the then outstanding principal balances
thereof and each Term Lender's Term Loan Pro Rata Share thereof
and then applied pro rata to all unpaid installments due to each
Term Lender based on the respective principal balances thereof
until paid in full.

          (ii)  Voluntary Commitment Reductions.  The Borrower,
upon at least three (3) Business Days' prior written notice to
the Collateral Agent (which the Collateral Agent shall promptly
trans-mit to each Lender), shall have the right, at any time and
from time to time, to terminate in whole or permanently reduce in
part the Revolving Credit Commitments; provided that the Borrower
shall have made whatever payment may be required to reduce the
outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Loans by the
aggregate amount required such that the Revolving Credit
Obligations, after giving effect to such payment, will equal an
amount less than or equal to the Revolving Credit Commitments as
reduced or terminated.  Any partial reduction of the Revolving
Credit Commitments shall be in an aggregate minimum amount of
$1,000,000 and integral multiples of $1,000,000 in excess of that
amount. Each reduction of the Revolving Credit Commitments shall
reduce the Revolving Credit Commitment of each Revolving Lender
proportionately in accordance with its Revolving Credit Pro Rata
Share.  Any notice of termination or reduction given to the
Collateral Agent under this Sec-tion 4.01(a)(ii) shall specify
the date (which shall be a Business Day) of such termination or
reduction and, with respect to a partial reduction, the aggregate
principal amount thereof.  When notice of termination or
reduction is delivered as provided herein, the princi-pal amount
of the Revolving Loans specified in the notice shall become due
and payable on the date specified in such notice.

          (iii)  Prepayment Fee.  The prepayments and payments in
respect of reductions and terminations described in this Section
4.01 may be made without premium or penalty (except as provided
in Article XIV).

          (b)  Mandatory Prepayments/Commitment Reductions.

          (i)  Net Cash Proceeds of Sale.  (A) The Borrower shall
make or cause to be made a mandatory prepayment of the
Obligations upon the Borrower's or any Subsidiary of the
Borrower's receipt of Net Cash Proceeds of Sale in an amount
equal to (1) one hundred percent (100%) of such Net Cash Pro-
ceeds of Sale so received in the event, at the time of such
receipt, the Consolidated Indebtedness to EBITDA Ratio is greater
than 4.00 to 1.00, (2) seventy-five percent (75%) of such Net
Cash Proceeds of Sale so received in the event, at the time of
such receipt, the Consolidated Indebtedness to EBITDA Ratio is
greater than 3.00 to 1.00, but less than or equal to 4.00 to
1.00, and (3) fifty percent (50%) of such Net Cash Proceeds of
Sale so received in the event, at the time of such receipt, the
Consolidated Indebtedness to EBITDA Ratio is less than or equal
to 3.00 to 1.00.

          (B)  The Borrower shall make or cause to be made a
mandatory prepayment of the Obligations upon the Borrower's or
any Subsidiary of the Borrower's receipt of Net Cash Proceeds of
Sale of Permitted Dispositions and Net Cash Proceeds of Sale of
Banner Companies in an amount equal to (1) one hundred percent
(100%) of the first $25,000,000 of Net Cash Proceeds of Sale of
Permitted Dispositions and Net Cash Proceeds of Sale of Banner
Companies received and (2) fifty percent (50%) of the next
$50,000,000 of Net Cash Proceeds of Sale of Permitted
Dispositions and Net Cash Proceeds of Sale of Banner Companies.

          (C) Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to Net
Cash Proceeds of Sale received in connection with the sale,
transfer or other disposition of the Capital Stock or assets of
Banner, upon the written request of the Borrower to the
Collateral Agent that the mandatory prepayment otherwise required
under this Section 4.01(b)(i) be waived, an amount equal to such
Net Cash Proceeds of Sale so received shall be remitted to the
Collateral Agent for deposit in the Cash Collateral Account and
the Collateral Agent shall hold the same in such Cash Collateral
Account (absent the occurrence of any Event of Default) until the
earlier to occur of (Y) the date which is 225 days after the
Borrower's or any of its Subsidiaries' receipt of such Net Cash
Proceeds of Sale or (Z) the date on which the Requisite Lenders
shall have authorized the release of the amount so deposited (or
a portion thereof) to the Borrower. In the event the amount so
deposited to the Cash Collateral Account has not been released to
the Borrower as referenced in clause (Z) above, the Collateral
Agent shall withdraw such amount from the Cash Collateral Account
on the date specified in clause (Y) above and apply the same as
set forth in Section 4.01(b)(vii).

          (D) In the event at any time a mandatory prepayment of
the Obligations is not otherwise required under this clause (i)
but the Borrower or a Restricted Subsidiary has made an "Asset
Disposition" (as such term is defined in the Senior Subordinated
Note Indenture) which would give rise to an obligation to
repurchase or repay Indebtedness in respect of the Senior
Subordinated Notes but for an election on the part of the
Borrower to use the proceeds of such "Asset Disposition" to repay
the Obligations, the Borrower shall make or cause to be made a
mandatory prepayment of the Obligations in an amount equal to
100% of the Net Cash Proceeds of Sale, Net Cash Proceeds of Sale
of Banner Companies and Net Cash Proceeds of Sale of Permitted
Dispositions, as applicable, notwithstanding the limitations
otherwise set forth herein.

          (ii)  Net Cash Proceeds of Issuance of Equity
Securities.  Unless, at the time of such receipt, the
Consolidated Senior Indebtedness to EBITDA Ratio is less than
2.00 to 1.00, immediately upon the Borrower's or any Subsidiary
of the Borrower's receipt of any Net Cash Proceeds of Issuance of
Equity Securities, the Borrower shall make or cause to be made a
mandatory prepayment in an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of
such Net Cash Proceeds of Issuance of Equity Securities. In the
event at any time a mandatory prepayment of the Obligations is
not otherwise required under this clause (ii) but an obligation
to repurchase or repay Indebtedness in respect of the Senior
Subordinated Notes would arise but for an election on the part of
the Borrower to use Net Cash Proceeds of Issuance of Equity
Securities to repay the Obligations, the Borrower shall make or
cause to be made a mandatory prepayment of the Obligations in an
amount equal to 100% of such Net Cash Proceeds of Equity
Securities, notwithstanding the limitations otherwise set forth
herein.

          (iii)  Net Cash Proceeds of Issuance of Indebtedness.
Immediately upon the Borrower's or any Subsidiary of the
Borrower's receipt of any Net Cash Proceeds of Issuance of
Indebtedness, the Borrower shall make or cause to be made a
mandatory prepayment in an amount equal to one hundred percent
(100%) of such Net Cash Proceeds of Issuance of Indebtedness.

          (iv)  Excess Cash Flow. As soon as practicable, and in
any event within one hundred ten (110) days after the end of each
Fiscal Year of the Borrower, commencing with such Fiscal Year
ending in 2000, the Borrower shall calculate the Excess Cash Flow
for the Fiscal Year of the Borrower most recently ended and,
unless the Consolidated Indebtedness to EBITDA Ratio for such
Fiscal Year is less than 3.00 to 1.00, the Borrower shall make a
mandatory prepayment of the Obligations in an amount equal to
fifty percent (50%) of the Excess Cash Flow for such Fiscal Year.

          (v) No Waiver or Consent.  Nothing in this Section
4.01(b) shall be construed to constitute the Lenders' consent to
any transaction referenced in clauses (i) through (iv) above
which is not expressly permitted by Article X.

          (vi)  Notice.  The Borrower shall give the Collateral
Agent prior written notice or telephonic notice promptly
confirmed in writing (each of which the Collateral Agent shall
promptly transmit to each Lender), when a Designated Prepayment
will be made (which date of prepayment shall be no later than the
date on which such Designated Payment becomes due and payable
pursuant to this Section 4.01(b)).

          (vii)  Application of Designated Prepayments.
Designated Prepayments shall be allocated and applied to the
Obligations as follows:

          (A)  the amount of such Designated Prepayment
     shall be applied, pro rata, to the outstanding
     principal balances of the Term Loans based on the
     respective Term Loan Pro Rata Shares of the Term
     Lenders, in each case pro rata to the unpaid
     installments due under each Term Loan during the period
     July 31, 2005 through April 30, 2006, based on the
     respective amounts of such installments, with each
     application being made to Base Rate Loans and
     Eurodollar Rate Loans as provided in Section 4.02(b);
     and

          (B)  following the payment in full of the Term
     Loans or in the event there are no Term Loans
     outstanding as of the date a Designated Prepayment is
     required to be made, the remaining balance of (or
     entire amount of, in the event there are no Term Loans
     outstanding as of such required payment date) each
     Designated Prepayment shall be applied to the
     outstanding balances of the Revolving Loans, pro rata
     based on the respective Revolving Credit Pro Rata
     Shares of the Revolving Lenders, with each application
     being made to Base Rate Loans and Eurodollar Rate Loans
     as provided in Section 4.02(b), until paid in full.

          (c)  Mandatory Reductions in Revolving Credit
Commitments.  The Revolving Credit Commitments shall be
permanently reduced by the amount of any Designated Prepayment
required to be applied to Revolving Loans pursuant to Section
4.01(b)(vii).

          4.02.  Payments.??  (a)  Manner and Time of Payment.
All payments of principal of and interest on the Loans and
Reimburse-ment Obligations and other Obligations (including,
without limitation, fees and expenses) which are payable to the
Collateral Agent, the Lenders or any Issuing Bank shall be made
without condition, set-off, or reservation of right, and, with
respect to payments made other than from application of deposits
in a Concentration Account, in immediately available funds,
delivered to the Collateral Agent (or, in the case of
Reimbursement Obligations, to the pertinent Issuing Bank), not
later than 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the date and at the
place due, to such account of the Collateral Agent (or such
Issuing Bank) as it may desig-nate; in each instance, for the
account of the Collateral Agent, the Lenders or such Issuing
Bank, as the case may be. Funds received by the Collateral Agent,
including, without limitation, funds in respect of any Loans to
be made on that date, not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York time)
on any given Business Day shall be credited against payment to be
made that day and funds received by the Collateral Agent after
that time shall be deemed to have been paid on the next
succeeding Business Day.  Payments actually received by the
Collateral Agent for the account of the Lenders or the Issu-ing
Banks, or any of them, shall be paid to them by the Collateral
Agent promptly after receipt thereof.

          (b)  Pre-Default Apportionment of Payments. Subject to
the provisions of Section 4.01 and Sec-tion 4.02(f), all payments
of principal and interest in respect of outstanding Loans, all
payments in respect of Reim-bursement Obliga-tions, all payments
of fees and all other pay-ments in respect of any other
Obligations, shall be allocated among such of the Lenders and
Issuing Banks as are entitled thereto, and, if Lenders, in
proportion to their respective Revolving Credit Pro Rata Shares
or Term Loan Pro Rata Shares, as applicable, or otherwise as
provided herein.  Except as provided in Section 4.02(c) with
respect to payments and proceeds of Collateral received after the
occurrence of an Event of Default, all other payments, proceeds
of Collateral, and other amounts received by the Collateral Agent
from or for the benefit of the Borrower shall be applied

     (i)       first, to pay principal of and interest on any
portion of the Loans which the Collateral Agent may have advanced
on behalf of any Lender (other than Citicorp if the Collateral
Agent is Citicorp) for which the Collateral Agent has not then
been reimbursed by such Lender or the Borrower,

     (ii)      second, to pay principal of and interest on any
Protective Advance for which the Collateral Agent has not then
been paid by the Borrower or reimbursed by the Lenders,

     (iii)     third, to pay the principal of the Loans then due
and payable in the order described hereinbelow and interest on
such Loans then due and payable, ratably, based on the then
outstanding balances of such Loans,

     (iv)      fourth, to pay all other Obligations then due and
payable, ratably, and
     (v)       fifth, as the Borrower designates.

All such principal and interest payments in respect of Loans
shall be applied first, to repay outstanding Base Rate Loans,
with those Base Rate Loans which are Swing Loans being repaid
first, and then to repay outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loans, with
those Eurodollar Rate Loans which have earlier expiring
Eurodollar Interest Periods being repaid prior to those which
have later expiring Eurodollar Interest Periods.

            (c) Post-Default Apportionment of Payments.  After
the occurrence of an Event of Default and while the same is
continuing, the Collateral Agent shall apply all payments in
respect of any Obligations and all proceeds of Collateral in the
following order:

     (i)       first, to pay principal of and interest on any
portion of the Loans which the Collateral Agent may have advanced
on behalf of any Lender (other than Citicorp if the Collateral
Agent is Citicorp) for which the Collateral Agent has not then
been reimbursed by such Lender or the Borrower;

     (ii)      second, to pay principal of and interest on any
Protective Advance for which the Collateral Agent has not then
been paid by the Borrower or reimbursed by the Lenders;

     (iii)     third, to pay Obligations in respect of any fees,
expense reimbursements or indemnities then due to the Collateral
Agent;

     (iv)      fourth, to pay Obligations in respect of any fees,
expense reimbursements or indemnities then due to the Lenders and
the Issuing Banks;

     (v)       fifth, to pay interest due in respect of the
Loans, ratably, in accordance with the Lenders' respective
Revolving Credit Pro Rata Shares and Term Loan Pro Rata Shares,
as applicable;

     (vi)      sixth, to the ratable payment or prepayment of
principal outstanding on all Loans (with Swing Loans being repaid
first), the "credit exposure" of the Lenders and any Affiliate of
any Lender which is a counterparty to Hedge Agreements,
depositary accounts or cash management agreements which
constitute Loan Documents, and principal of and interest on
Letter of Credit Obligations (or, to the extent Letter of Credit
Obligations are contingent, deposited in the Cash Collateral
Account to provide Cash Collateral in respect of such
Obligations), in accordance with the Lender's respective
Revolving Credit Pro Rata Shares and Term Loan Pro Rata Shares,
as applicable; and

     (vii)     seventh, to the ratable payment of all other
Obligations.
For purposes of clause (vi) above, Obligations with respect to
Hedge Agreements and depositary account and cash management
agreements as to which an Affiliate of a Lender is a party shall
be attributable to such Lender.

          (d)  Collateral Agent Authority to Apply Funds.  The
Collateral Agent, in its sole discretion subject only to the
terms of this Section 4.02(d), may pay from the proceeds of Loans
made to the Borrower hereunder, whether made following a request
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02 or a deemed request as
provided in this Section 4.02(d), all amounts payable by the
Borrower hereunder, including, without limitation, amounts
payable with respect to payments of principal, interest,
Reimbursement Obligations and fees and all reimbursements for
expenses pursuant to Section 15.02.  The Borrower hereby
irrevocably authorizes the Revolving Lenders to make Revolving
Loans to it, which Revolving Loans shall be Base Rate Loans upon
notice from the Collateral Agent as described in the following
sentence for the purpose of paying principal, interest,
Reimbursement Obligations and fees due from the Borrower,
reimbursing expenses pursuant to Section 15.02 and paying any and
all other amounts due and payable by the Borrower hereunder or
under the Notes, and agrees that all such Loans so made shall be
deemed to have been requested by it pursuant to Section 2.02 as
of the date of the aforementioned notice.  The Collateral Agent
shall request Loans on behalf of the Borrower as described in the
preceding sentence by notifying the Lenders by telecopy, telegram
or other similar form of transmission (which notice the
Collateral Agent shall thereafter promptly transmit to the
Borrower), of the amount and Funding Date of the proposed
Borrowing and that such Borrowing is being requested on the
Borrower's behalf pursuant to this Section 4.02(d).  On the
proposed Funding Date for such Loan, the Lenders shall make the
requested Loans in accordance with the procedures and subject to
the conditions specified in Section 2.02.

          (e)  Priorities and Distributions of Payments.  The
orders of priority set forth in Sections 4.02(b) and (c) and the
related provisions of this Agreement are set forth solely to
determine the rights and priorities of the Collateral Agent, the
Len-ders, the Issuing Banks and other Holders as among
themselves.  Subject to Section 4.02(f), the Collateral Agent
shall promptly distribute to each Lender and Issuing Bank at its
primary address set forth on the appropri-ate signature page
hereof, the signature page to the Assignment and Acceptance or
amendment to this Agreement by which it became a Lender or
Issuing Bank, or at such other address as a Lender, an Issuing
Bank or other Holder may request in writing, such funds as such
Person may be entitled to receive, subject to the provisions of
Article XIV;  provided that the Collateral Agent shall under no
circumstances be bound to inquire into or determine the validity,
scope or priority of any interest or entitlement of any Holder
and may suspend all payments or seek appropriate relief
(including, without limitation, instructions from the Requisite
Lenders or an action in the nature of interpleader) in the event
of any doubt or dispute as to any apportionment or distribution
contemplated hereby.

          (f)  Defaulting Lenders.  In the event that any Lender
fails to fund its Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share of any
Revolving Loan or its Term Loan Pro Rata Share of any Term Loan
requested by the Borrower which such Lender is obligated to fund
under the terms of this Agreement (the funded portion of such
Loan being hereinafter referred to as a "Non Pro Rata Loan"),
until the earlier of such Lender's cure of such failure and the
termination of the Revolving Credit Commitments, the proceeds of
all amounts thereafter repaid to the Collateral Agent by the
Borrower and otherwise required to be applied to such Lender's
share of all other Obligations pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement shall be advanced to the Borrower by the Collateral
Agent on behalf of such Lender to cure, in full or in part, such
failure by such Lender, but shall nevertheless be deemed to have
been paid to such Lender in satisfaction of such other
Obligations.  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the
contrary:

          (i)  the foregoing provisions of this Section
     4.02(f) shall apply only with respect to the proceeds
     of payments of Obligations and shall not affect the
     conversion or continuation of Loans pursuant to Section
     5.01(c);

          (ii)  a Lender shall be deemed to have cured its
     failure to fund its Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share or
     Term Loan Pro Rata Share of any Loan at such time as an
     amount equal to such Lender's original Revolving Credit
     Pro Rata Share or Term Loan Pro Rata Share of the
     requested principal portion of such Loan is fully
     funded to the Borrower, whether made by such Lender
     itself or by operation of the terms of this Section
     4.02(f), and whether or not the Non Pro Rata Loan with
     respect thereto has been repaid, converted or
     continued;

          (iii)  amounts advanced to the Borrower to cure,
     in full or in part, any such Lender's failure to fund
     its Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share of any Revolving
     Loan ("Cure Loans") shall bear interest at the rate in
     effect from time to time pursuant to Section 5.01 and
     for all other purposes of this Agreement shall be
     treated as if they were Base Rate Loans; and

          (iv)  regardless of whether or not an Event of
     Default has occurred or is continuing, and
     notwithstanding the instructions of the Borrower as to
     its desired application, all repayments of principal
     which, in accordance with the other terms of this
     Section 4.02, would be applied to the outstanding Loans
     which are Base Rate Loans shall be applied first,
     ratably to all such Base Rate Loans constituting Non
     Pro Rata Loans, second, ratably to such Base Rate Loans
     other than those constituting Non Pro Rata Loans or
     Cure Loans and, third, ratably to such Base Rate Loans
     constituting Cure Loans.

          (g)  Payments on Non-Business Days.  Whenever any pay-
ment to be made by the Borrower hereunder or under the Notes is
stated to be due on a day which is not a Business Day, the
payment shall instead be due on the next succeeding Business Day
(except as set forth in Section 5.02(b)(iii) with respect to
payments due on the next preceding Business Day), and any such
extension of time shall be included in the computation of the
payment of interest and fees hereunder.

          4.03.  Promise to Repay; Evidence of Indebtedness.??

          (a)  Prom-ise to Repay.  The Borrower hereby agrees to
pay when due the principal amount of each Loan, and further
agrees to pay all unpaid interest accrued thereon, in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement and the Notes.  The Borrower
shall execute and deliver to each Lender on the Closing Date
promissory notes, in form and substance acceptable to the
Collateral Agent and such Lender, evidencing the Loans made from
time to time hereunder by such Lender and thereafter shall
execute and deliver such other promissory notes as are necessary
to evidence Loans owing to the Lenders after giving effect to any
assignment thereof pursuant to Section 15.01, all in form and
substance acceptable to the Collateral Agent and the parties to
such assignment.

          (b)  Loan Account.  Each Lender shall maintain in
accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts (a
"Loan Account") evidencing the Indebtedness of the Borrower to
such Lender resulting from each Loan owing to such Lender from
time to time, including the amount of principal and interest
payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder and
under the Notes.

          (c)  Control Account.  The Register maintained by the
Collateral Agent pursuant to Section 15.01(c) shall include a
control account, and a subsidiary account for each Lender, in
which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the date
and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder, the type of Loan
comprising such Borrowing and any Eurodollar Interest Period
applicable thereto, (ii) the effective date and amount of each
Assignment and Accept-ance delivered to and accepted by it and
the parties thereto, (iii) the amount of any principal or
interest due and payable or to become due and pay-able from the
Borrower to each Lender hereunder or under the Notes, and (iv)
the amount of any sum received by the Collateral Agent from the
Borrower hereunder and each Lender's share thereof.

          (d)  Entries Binding.  The entries made in the Register
and each Loan Account shall be conclusive and binding for all
purposes, absent manifest error.

          4.04.  Proceeds of Collateral; Concentration Account
Arrangements.??  (a)  Establishment.  The Borrower shall
establish and maintain, and shall cause the Guarantors to
establish and maintain, Collection Accounts into which all
collections of Receivables shall be deposited. All amounts
deposited in Collection Accounts established by the Borrower and
the Guarantors shall be promptly transferred directly to the
Concentration Account established at Citibank in New York, New
York. The Borrower shall cause all other proceeds of Collateral
to be deposited in a Concentration Account or pursuant to other
similar arrangements for the collection of such amounts
established by the Borrower and the Collateral Agent. All
collections of Receivables and other proceeds of Collateral which
are received directly by the Borrower or any Guarantor shall be
deemed to have been received by the Borrower or such Guarantor as
the Collateral Agent's trustee and, upon the Borrower's or such
Guarantor's receipt thereof, such Borrower or such Guarantor
shall immediately transfer, or cause to be transferred, all such
amounts into a Concentration Account in their original form. All
collections of Receivables, all payments, and all proceeds of
other Collateral received by the Collateral Agent, whether
through payment, deposit in a Concentration Account as described
above, or otherwise, will be deemed received by the Collateral
Agent, will be the sole property of the Collateral Agent, and
will be held by the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the
Holders (i) for application to the Obligations pursuant to
Section 4.02 and (ii) thereafter, as Cash Collateral for the
Obligations, subject to the rights of the Borrower set forth in
Section 4.04(b) and the rights of the Collateral Agent set forth
in Section 4.06.

          (b)  Pre-Default Withdrawals from Concentration
Accounts.  If requested by the Borrower, the Collateral Agent
shall, so long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be
continuing or unwaived, from time to time, (i) apply funds in the
Concentration Accounts promptly after deposit therein to payment
of the Loans and to payment of other Obligations of the Borrower
as they become due and payable, (ii) after giving effect to the
aforesaid payments, invest funds on deposit in the Concentration
Accounts and accrued interest thereon, reinvest proceeds of any
such investments which may mature or be sold, and invest interest
or other income received from such investments, in such Cash
Equivalents as the Borrower may select, and (iii) upon the
Borrower's request therefor after giving effect to the payments
described in clause (i) above, transfer funds on deposit in the
Concentration Accounts to the Borrower's or the Borrower's
Subsidiaries' designated accounts. Such funds, interest,
proceeds, or income which are not so disbursed, invested or
reinvested shall be deposited and held in the Concentration
Accounts for the benefit of the Holders as provided in Section
4.04(a). None of the Collateral Agent, any Lender or any Issuing
Bank shall be liable to the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the
Borrower for, or with respect to, any decline in value of amounts
on deposit in the Concentration Accounts which shall have been
invested pursuant to this Section 4.04(b). Cash Equivalents from
time to time purchased and held pursuant to this Section 4.04(b)
shall constitute Cash Collateral and shall, for purposes of this
Agreement, be deemed to be part of the funds held in the
Concentration Accounts in amounts equal to their respective
outstanding principal amounts.

          (c)  Reasonable Care.  The Collateral Agent shall
exercise reasonable care in the custody and preservation of any
funds held in the Concentration Accounts and shall be deemed to
have exercised such care if such funds are accorded treatment
substantially equivalent to that which the Collateral Agent
accords its own like property, it being understood that the
Collateral Agent shall not have any responsibility for taking any
steps necessary to preserve rights against any parties with
respect to any such funds but may do so at its option. All
reasonable expenses incurred in connection therewith shall be for
the sole account of the Borrower and shall constitute Obligations
hereunder.

          4.05.  Cash Collateral Account.??  (a)  Investments.
If requested by the Borrower, the Collateral Agent shall, so long
as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing,
from time to time invest funds on deposit in the Cash Collateral
Account and accrued interest thereon, reinvest proceeds of any
such investments which may mature or be sold, and invest interest
or other income received from any such Investments, in each case
in such Cash Equivalents as the Borrower may select; provided,
however, that such accrued interest and other income received
from any such Investments, upon the request of the Borrower,
shall be remitted to the Borrower.  Such funds, interest,
proceeds or income which are not so invested or reinvested in
Cash Equivalents shall, except as otherwise provided above or in
Section 4.05(b) and Section 4.06, be deposited and held by the
Collateral Agent in the Cash Collateral Account.  None of the
Collateral Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank shall be liable
to the Borrower for, or with respect to, any decline in value of
amounts on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account which shall
have been invested pursuant to this Section 4.05(a) at the
direction of the Borrower.  Cash Equivalents from time to time
purchased and held pursuant to this Section 4.05(a) shall
constitute Cash Collateral and shall, for purposes of this
Agreement, be deemed to be part of the funds held in the Cash
Collateral Account in amounts equal to their respective
outstanding principal amounts.

          (b)  Withdrawal Rights.  Neither the Borrower nor any
Person or entity claiming on behalf of or through the Borrower
shall have any right to withdraw any of the funds held in the
Cash Collateral Account, except that, upon the later to occur of
(i) the expiration or termination of all of the Letters of Credit
in accordance with their respective terms and (ii) the payment in
full in cash of the Obligations, any funds remaining in the Cash
Collateral Account shall be returned by the Collateral Agent to
the Borrower or paid to whomever may be legally entitled thereto.

          (c)  Additional Deposits.  If at any time the
Collateral Agent determines that any funds held in the Cash
Collateral Account are subject to any interest, right, claim or
Lien of any Person other than the Collateral Agent, the Borrower
will, forthwith upon demand by the Collateral Agent, pay to the
Collateral Agent, as additional funds to be deposited and held in
the Cash Collateral Account, an amount equal to the amount of
funds subject to such interest, right, claim or Lien.

          (d)  Reasonable Care.  The Collateral Agent shall
exercise reasonable care in the custody and preservation of any
funds held in the Cash Collateral Account and shall be deemed to
have exercised such care if such funds are accorded treatment
substantially equivalent to that which the Collateral Agent
accords its own like property, it being understood that the
Collateral Agent shall not have any responsibility for taking any
necessary steps to preserve rights against any parties with
respect to any such funds but may do so at its option.  All
expenses incurred in connection therewith shall be for the sole
account of the Borrower and shall constitute Obligations
hereunder.

          (e)  Foreign Exchange Requirements. In the event
deposits have been made to the Cash Collateral Account to secure
Letter of Credit Obligations denominated in a non-U.S. currency,
the Borrower shall enter into a Hedge Agreement for a forward
foreign exchange contract reasonably satisfactory to the
Collateral Agent to protect against fluctuation in the Exchange
Rate for the amount of such Letter of Credit Obligations until
the same are paid in full.

          4.06.  Post-Default Withdrawals from the Concentration
Account and Cash Collateral Account.??  Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Agreement, from and after (a) the occurrence of
an Event of Default described in Section 12.01(a) and for so long
as the same is continuing unwaived or (b) the occurrence of any
other Event of Default and the Collateral Agent's receipt of
written notice from the Requisite Lenders that no further
withdrawals may be made from the Concentration Accounts other
than for application on the Obligations for so long as the same
is continuing unwaived, neither the Borrower nor any other Person
or entity claiming on behalf of or through the Borrower shall
have any right to withdraw any of the funds held in a
Concentration Account. The Collateral Agent may, at any time
during the period clause (a) or clause (b) above is applicable,
sell or cause to be sold any Cash Equivalents being held by the
Collateral Agent in the Concentration Accounts or as Cash
Collateral at any broker's board or at public or private sale, in
one or more sales or lots, at such price as the Collateral Agent
may deem best, without assumption of any credit risk, and the
purchaser of any or all such Cash Equivalents so sold shall
thereafter own the same, absolutely free from any claim,
encumbrance or right of any kind whatsoever. The Collateral Agent
or any Holder may, in its own name or in the name of a designee
or nominee, buy such Cash Equivalents at any public sale and, if
permitted by applicable law, buy such Cash Equivalents at any
private sale. The Collateral Agent shall apply the proceeds of
any such sale, net of any reasonable expenses incurred in
connection therewith, and any other funds deposited in the
Concentration Accounts or Cash Collateral Account to the payment
of the Obligations in accordance with Section 4.02(c), other than
amounts which are being held as Cash Collateral for Reimbursement
Obligations, which shall be applied to such Reimbursement
Obligations without regard to Section 4.02(c). The Borrower
agrees that any sale of Cash Equivalents conducted in conformity
with reasonable commercial practices of banks, commercial finance
companies, insurance companies or other financial institutions
disposing of property similar to such Cash Equivalents shall be
deemed to be commercially reasonable and any requirements of
reasonable notice shall be met if such notice is given by the
Collateral Agent within a commercially reasonable time prior to
such disposition, the time of delivery of which notice the
parties hereto agree shall in no event be required to be greater
than five (5) Business Days before the date of the intended sale
or disposition. Any other requirement of notice, demand or
advertisement for sale is waived to the extent permitted by law.
The Collateral Agent may adjourn any public or private sale from
time to time by announcement at the time and place fixed therefor
and such sale may, without further notice, be made at the time
and place to which it was so adjourned.



                           ARTICLE V
                       INTEREST AND FEES

          5.01.  Interest on the Loans and other Obligations.
??(a)  Rate of Interest.  (i) All Loans and the outstanding
principal balance of all other Obligations shall bear interest on
the unpaid principal amount thereof from the date such Loans are
made and such other Obligations are incurred until paid in full,
except as otherwise provided in Section 5.01(d) or Section 14.04,
as follows:

          (A)  If a Base Rate Loan or such other Obligation,
     at a rate per annum equal to the sum of (1) the Base
     Rate, as in effect from time to time as interest
     accrues plus (2) the Revolver Base Rate Margin, if a
     Revolving Credit Obligation, or the Term Base Rate
     Margin, if a Term Loan, applicable from time to time;
     and

          (B)  If a Eurodollar Rate Loan, at a rate per
     annum equal to the sum of (1) the applicable Eurodollar
     Rate deter-mined for such Eurodollar Rate Loan for the
     applicable Eurodollar Interest Period, plus (2) the
     Revolver Eurodollar Rate Margin, if a Revolving Credit
     Obligation, or the Term Eurodollar Rate Margin, if a
     Term Loan, applicable from time to time.

          (ii)  The applicable basis for determining the rate of
interest on the Loans shall be selected by the Borrower at the
time a Notice of Borrowing or a Notice of Conver-sion/Con-
tinuation is delivered by the Borrower to the Collateral Agent;
provided, however, the Borrower may not select a Eurodollar Rate
as the applicable basis for determining the rate of interest on
such a Loan if (A) such Loan is to be made on the Closing Date or
(B) at the time of such selection an Event of Default or a Poten-
tial Event of Default would occur or has occurred and is
continuing.  If on any day any Loan is outstanding with respect
to which notice has not been timely delivered to the Collateral
Agent in accordance with the terms of this Agree-ment speci-fying
the basis for deter-min-ing the rate of interest on that day,
then for that day inter-est on that Loan shall be determined by
refer-ence to clause (i)(A) above.

          (b)  Interest Payments.  (i)  Interest accrued on each
Base Rate Loan shall be payable in arrears (A) on the first
Business Day of each calendar quarter, commencing with the
calendar quarter following the calendar quarter in which such
Loan was made and (B) if not theretofore paid in full, at
maturity (whether by acceleration or otherwise) of such Base Rate
Loan.

          (ii)  Interest accrued on each Eurodollar Rate Loan
shall be payable in arrears (A) on each Eurodollar Interest
Payment Date applicable to such Loan, (B) upon the payment or
prepayment thereof in full or in part, and (C) if not theretofore
paid in full, at maturity (whether by acceleration or otherwise)
of such Eurodollar Rate Loan.

          (iii)  Interest accrued on the principal balance of all
other Obligations shall be payable in arrears (A) on the first
day of each calendar quarter, commencing with the calendar
quarter following the calendar quarter in which such Obligation
was incurred, (B) upon repayment thereof in full or in part, and
(C) if not theretofore paid in full, at the time such other
Obligation becomes due and payable (whether by acceleration or
otherwise).

          (c)  Conversion or Continuation.  (i) The Borrower
shall have the option (A) to convert at any time all or any part
of out-standing Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans; (B) to
convert all or any part of outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loans
having Eurodollar Interest Periods which expire on the same date
to Base Rate Loans on such expiration date; or (C) to continue
all or any part of outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loans having
Eurodollar Interest Periods which expire on the same date as
Eurodollar Rate Loans, and the succeed-ing Eurodollar Interest
Period of such continued Loans shall commence on such expiration
date; pro-vided, however, no such out-standing Loan may be
continued as, or be converted into, a Eurodollar Rate Loan (i) if
such continuation of, or conversion into, would violate any of
the provisions of Section 5.02 or (ii) if an Event of Default or
a Potential Event of Default would occur or has occurred and is
continuing.  Any conversion into or continuation of Eurodollar
Rate Loans under this Section 5.01(c) shall be in a minimum
amount of $1,000,000 and in integral multiples of $100,000 in
excess of that amount except in the case of a conversion into or
a continuation of an entire Borrowing of Non Pro Rata Loans.

          (ii)  To convert or continue a Loan under Section
5.01(c)(i), the Borrower shall deliver a Notice of Conver-
sion/Continuation to the Collateral Agent no later than 11:00
a.m. (New York time) at least three (3) Business Days in advance
of the proposed conversion/continuation date.  A Notice of Conver-
sion/Continua-tion shall specify (A) the proposed conversion/con-
tinua-tion date (which shall be a Business Day), (B) the
aggregate principal amount of the respective Loans to be
converted/continued, (C) whether such Loans shall be converted
and/or continued, and (D) in the case of a con-ver-sion to, or
continua-tion of, a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the requested
Eurodollar Interest Period.  In lieu of delivering a Notice of
Conversion/Con-tinuation, the Borrower may give the Collateral
Agent tele-phonic notice of any proposed conversion/continuation
by the time required under this Section 5.01(c)(ii), and such
notice shall be con-firmed in writing delivered to the Collateral
Agent by facsimile transmission promptly (but in no event later
than 5:00 p.m. (New York time) on the same day), the original of
which facsimile copy shall be delivered to the Collateral Agent
within three (3) days after the date of such transmission.
Promptly after receipt of a Notice of Conversion/Continuation
under this Section 5.01(c)(ii) (or telephonic notice in lieu
there-of), the Collateral Agent shall notify each applicable
Lender, by tele-copy or other similar form of trans-mission, of
the proposed conversion/continuation.  Any Notice of Conver-
sion/Con-tinuation for conversion to, or continuation of, a Loan
(or telephonic notice in lieu thereof) shall be irrevocable, and
the Borrower shall be bound to convert or continue in accor-dance
therewith.

          (d)  Default Interest.  Notwithstanding the rates of
interest specified in Section 5.01(a), effective immediately upon
the occurrence of an Event of Default (except an Event of Default
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the
Collateral Agent) and for as long there-after as such Event of
Default shall be continu-ing unwaived, the principal balance of
all Obligations, including, to the extent permitted by applicable
law, accrued interest unpaid when due, shall bear inter-est,
payable on demand, at a rate which is two percent (2.0%) per
annum in excess of the rate of interest specified in Section
5.01(a)(i).

          (e)  Computation of Interest.  Interest on all Obliga-
tions shall be computed on the basis of the actual number of days
elapsed in the period during which interest accrues and a year of
360 days.  In computing interest on any Loan, the date of the
making of the Loan or the first day of a Eurodollar Interest
Period, as the case may be, shall be included and the date of
payment or the expiration date of a Eurodollar Interest Period,
as the case may be, shall be excluded; provided, however, if a
Loan is repaid on the same day on which it is made, one (1) day's
interest shall be paid on such Loan.

          5.02.  Special Provisions Governing Eurodollar Rate
Loans.??  With respect to Eurodollar Rate Loans:

          (a)  Amount of Eurodollar Rate Loans.  Each Borrowing
of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be for a minimum amount of
$1,000,000 and in integral multiples of $100,000 in excess of
that amount.

          (b)  Determination of Eurodollar Interest Period.  By
giving notice as set forth in Section 2.02(b) (with respect to a
Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Loans) or Section 5.01(c) (with
respect to a conversion into or continuation of Eurodollar Rate
Loans), the Borrower shall have the option, subject to the other
provisions of this Section 5.02, to select an interest period
(each, a "Eurodollar Interest Period") to apply to the Loans
described in such notice, subject to the following provisions:

          (i)  The Borrower may only select, as to a par-tic-
     ular Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Loans, a Eurodollar
     Interest Period of one, two, three or six months in
     duration (or such intermediate periods to which each of
     the Lenders may agree in their sole discretion,
     provided that, for purposes of determining the interest
     rate with respect to such intermediate periods, such
     periods shall be rounded up to the next nearest period
     of full months);

          (ii)  In the case of immediately successive
     Eurodollar Interest Periods applicable to a Borrowing
     of Eurodollar Rate Loans, each successive Eurodollar
     Interest Period shall commence on the day on which the
     next preceding Eurodollar Interest Period expires;

          (iii)  If any Eurodollar Interest Period would
     otherwise expire on a day which is not a Business Day,
     such Eurodollar Interest Period shall be extended to
     expire on the next succeeding Business Day if the next
     succeeding Business Day occurs in the same calendar
     month, and if there will be no succeeding Business Day
     in such calendar month, the Eurodollar Interest Period
     shall expire on the immediately preceding Business Day;

          (iv)  The Borrower may not select a Eurodollar
     Interest Period as to any Loan if such Eurodollar
     Interest Period terminates later than the scheduled
     Revolving Credit Termination Date; and

          (v)  There shall be no more than -six (6) Eurodollar
     Interest Periods in effect at any one time.

          (c)  Determination of Interest Rate.  As soon as prac-
ticable on the second Business Day prior to the first day of each
Eurodollar Interest Period (the "Eurodollar Interest Rate
Determination Date"), the Collateral Agent shall determine
(pursuant to the procedures set forth in the definition of
"Eurodollar Rate") the interest rate which shall apply to the
Eurodollar Rate Loans for which an interest rate is then being
determined for the applicable Eurodollar Interest Period and
shall promptly give notice thereof (in writ-ing or by telephone
confirmed in writing) to the Borrower and to each Lender.  The
Collateral Agent's determination shall be presumed to be correct,
absent manifest error, and shall be binding upon the Borrower.

          (d)  Interest Rate Unascertainable, Inadequate or
Unfair.  In the event that at least one (1) Business Day before
the Eurodollar Interest Rate Determination Date:

          (i)  the Collateral Agent is advised by Citibank
     that deposits in Dollars (in the appli-cable amounts)
     are not being offered by Citibank in the London
     interbank market for such Eurodollar Interest Period;
     or

          (ii) the Collateral Agent determines that adequate
     and fair means do not exist for ascertaining the
     applicable interest rates by reference to which the
     Eurodollar Rate then being determined is to be fixed;
     or

          (iii)  Lenders with respect to the applicable
     Borrowing whose Revolving Credit Pro Rata Shares or
     Term Loan Pro Rata Shares, as applicable, aggregate at
     least fifty-one percent (51%) advise the Collateral
     Agent that the Eurodollar Rate for Eurodollar Rate
     Loans comprising such Borrowing will not adequately
     reflect the cost to such Lenders of obtaining funds in
     Dollars in the London interbank market in the amount
     substan-tially equal to such Lenders' Eurodollar Rate
     Loans and for a period equal to such Eurodollar
     Interest Period;

then the Collateral Agent shall forthwith give notice thereof to
the Borrower, whereupon (until the Collateral Agent noti-fies the
Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension no
longer exist) the right of the Borrower to elect to have Loans
bear interest based upon the Eurodollar Rate shall be suspended
and each outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be converted into
a Base Rate Loan on the last day of the then current Eurodollar
Interest Period therefor, notwithstanding any prior election by
the Borrower to the contrary.

          (e)  Booking of Eurodollar Rate Loans.  Any Lender may
make, carry or transfer Eurodollar Rate Loans at, to, or for the
account of, its Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar Affiliate
or its other offices or Affiliates.  No Lender shall be entitled,
however, to receive any greater amount under Article XIV as a
result of the transfer of any such Eurodollar Rate Loan to any
office (other than such Eurodollar Lending Office) or any
Affiliate (other than such Eurodollar Affiliate) than such Lender
would have been entitled to receive immediately prior thereto,
unless (i) the transfer occurred at a time when circumstances
giving rise to the claim for such greater amount did not exist
and (ii) such claim would have arisen even if such transfer had
not occurred.

          (f)  Affiliates Not Obligated.  No Eurodollar Affil-
iate or other Affiliate of any Lender shall be deemed a party to
this Agreement or shall have any liability or obligation under
this Agreement.

          5.03.  Fees.??  (a)  Collateral Agent's Fee??.  The
Borrower shall pay to the Collateral Agent, solely for the
account of the Collateral Agent, during the term of this
Agreement, the fee provided in the Fee Letter as and when set
forth therein.

          (b)  Fronting Fee and Letter of Credit Fee.  In
addition to any charges paid pursuant to Section 3.01(g), the
Borrower shall pay (i) to the Issuing Bank, a fee accruing at the
rate of one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the
undrawn face amount of each outstanding Letter of Credit issued
by such Issuing Bank (the "Fronting Fee") and (ii) to the
Collateral Agent, for the account of the Revolving Lenders based
on their respective Revolving Credit Pro Rata Shares, a fee (the
"Letter of Credit Fee") accruing at a per annum rate equal to the
Revolving Eurodollar Rate Margin minus one-quarter of one percent
(0.25%) on the undrawn face amount of each outstanding Letter of
Credit, which Fronting Fee and Letter of Credit Fee shall be
payable quarterly, in arrears, on the first day of each calendar
quarter and on the Revolving Credit Termination Date.

          (c)  Commitment Fee.  (i) The Borrower shall pay to the
Collateral Agent a fee (the "Commitment Fee") for the account of
the Revolving Lenders in accordance with their respective
Revolving Credit Pro Rata Shares accruing at the Commitment Fee
Rate applicable from time to time on the average daily amount
during the applicable quarter by which the Revolving Credit
Commitments exceed the sum of the Revolving Credit Obligations,
such Commitment Fee being payable to the Revolving Lenders,
quarterly, in arrears, commencing on the first day of the
calendar quarter next suc-ceeding the Closing Date and on the
Revolving Credit Termination Date.

          (ii)  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that
any Lender fails to fund its Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share of
any Revolving Loan which such Lender is obligated to fund under
the terms of this Agreement, (A) such Lender shall not be
entitled to any Commitment Fee with respect to its Revolving
Credit Commitment until such failure has been cured in accordance
with Section 4.02(f)(ii) and (B) until such time, the Commitment
Fee shall accrue in favor of the Lenders which have funded their
respective Revolving Credit Pro Rata Shares of such requested
Revolving Loan, shall be allocated among such performing Lenders
ratably based upon their respective Revolving Credit Commitments,
and shall be calculated based upon the average amount by which
the aggregate of such Revolving Credit Commitments of such
performing Lenders exceeds the sum of (1) the Revolving Credit
Obligations owing to such performing Lenders, plus (2) the
aggregate participation interests of such performing Lenders
arising pursuant to Section 3.01(e) with respect to undrawn and
outstanding Letters of Credit.

          (d)  Calculation and Payment of Fees.  The Commitment
Fee, Fronting Fee, and Letter of Credit Fee shall be calculated
on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed in a 360-day
year.  All such fees shall be payable in addition to, and not in
lieu of, interest, compensation, expense reimbursements,
indemnification and other Obligations payable under this
Agreement, to the Collateral Agent at its office in New York, New
York in imme-diately available funds.  All such fees shall be
fully earned and nonre-fund-able when paid.  All fees specified
or referred to in this Agreement due to the Collateral Agent, any
Issuing Bank or any Lender, including, without limitation, those
referred to in this Section 5.03, shall bear interest, if not
paid when due, at the interest rate for Base Rate Loans set forth
in Section 5.01(d), shall constitute Obligations and shall be
secured by all of the Collateral in which Liens are granted by
the Borrower and Guarantors.

          5.04.  Determination of Applicable Base Rate Margin,
Eurodollar Rate Margin and Commitment Fee Rate.??  (a)  The Base
Rate Margins and Eurodollar Rate Margins applicable from time to
time shall be determined by reference to the Borrower's
compliance with the Consolidated Indebtededness to EBITDA Ratios
as provided in the definitions of Base Rate Margin and Eurodollar
Rate Margin, respectively, as of the end of each Fiscal Quarter
commencing with the Fiscal Quarter ending on December 27, 1999
and shall apply from and after April 1, 2000 as of the Interest
Margin Effective Date immediately succeeding the end of each such
Fiscal Quarter, which shall be the date on which the Borrower
shall have delivered to the Collateral Agent at the address
designated to the Borrower from time to time in writing,
concurrently with delivery of the Financial Statements delivered
as required by Section 8.01(a), the financial and other
information necessary to establish Borrower's compliance with the
appropriate Consolidated Indebtedness to EBITDA Ratio as of such
Fiscal Quarter end.

          (b)  The Commitment Fee Rate applicable from time to
time shall be determined based on the actual daily outstanding
balance of the Revolving Credit Obligations during the period for
which the Commitment Fee accrues and is payable.



                           ARTICLE VI
           CONDITIONS TO LOANS AND LETTERS OF CREDIT

          6.01.  Conditions Precedent to the Initial Loans and
Letters of Credit. ?? The effectiveness of this Agreement, the
obligation of each Lender on the Closing Date to make the Loan
requested to be made by it, and the agreement of each Issuing
Bank on the Closing Date to issue or continue Letters of Credit,
shall be subject to the satisfaction of all of the following
conditions precedent on or before the Closing Date:

          (a)  Documents.  The Collateral Agent shall have
received on or before the Closing Date all of the following:

          (i)  this Agreement, the Notes and all other
     agreements, documents and instruments relating to the
     loan and other credit transactions contemplated by this
     Agreement and described in the List of Closing
     Documents attached hereto as Exhibit H and made a part
     hereof, each duly executed where appropriate and in
     form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative
     Agents; without limiting the foregoing, the Borrower
     hereby directs its counsel, Cahill Gordon & Reindel,
     its General Counsel, Donald E. Miller, its special
     California counsel, Fulbright & Jaworski L.L.P., and
     its special Virginia counsel, Hogan & Hartson L.L.P.,
     to prepare and deliver to the Administrative Agents,
     the Collateral Agent, the Lenders, the Issuing Banks
     and Sidley & Austin, the opinions referred to in such
     List of Closing Documents;

          (ii)  the Pro Forma Balance Sheet and Projections,
     in form and substance satisfactory to the
     Administrative Agents;

          (iii) a solvency opinion relating to the Borrower
     and each Guarantor rendered by Valuation Research
     Corporation, dated the Closing Date, giving effect to
     the financing transactions contemplated hereby and
     under the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture, repayment
     of the Refinanced Indebtedness, the Banner Exchange,
     the Banner Distribution, and the acquisition
     contemplated by the Kaynar Purchase Agreement,
     supported by such analyses, valuations, appraisals,
     reviews, projections and other documentation as the
     Collateral Agent deems appropriate; and

          (iv)  such additional documentation as the
     Administrative Agents may reasonably request.

          (b)  Perfection of Liens.  Evidence to the satisfaction
of the Collateral Agent shall have been received by the
Collateral Agent that all financing statements, mortgages,
leasehold mortgages, and other required notices relating to the
Collateral located in the United States have been delivered to
the Collateral Agent for filing or have been filed or recorded,
certificates representing Capital Stock comprising part of the
Collateral have been delivered to the Collateral Agent (with duly
executed stock powers), and all recording fees and filing taxes
have been paid or provision therefor made to the satisfaction of
the Collateral Agent.

          (c)  Financial Statements and Performance.  The amount
equal to (i) the amount of the Consolidated Total Debt as of the
Closing Date, after giving effect to the Loans and other
financial accommodations provided under this Agreement, the
issuance of the Senior Subordinated Notes, the acquisition of
Kaynar pursuant to the Kaynar Purchase Agreement, the Banner
Exchange, and repayment of the Refinanced Indebtedness, minus
(ii) cash on the balance sheet of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries after giving effect to the Loans and other financial
accommodations provided under this Agreement, the issuance of the
Senior Subordinated Notes, the acquisition of Kaynar pursuant to
the Kaynar Purchase Agreement, and repayment of the Refinanced
Indebtedness, shall not exceed $525,000,000.

          (d)  No Legal Impediments.  No law, regulation, order,
judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority shall, and
neither Administrative Agent shall have received any notice that
litigation is pending or threatened which is likely to, enjoin,
prohibit or restrain either the making of the Loans and/or the
issuance or continuation of Letters of Credit on the Closing
Date.

          (e)  No Change in Condition.  No change in the
business, assets, management, operations, financial condition or
prospects of Kaynar and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, shall
have occurred since December 31, 1998, or of the Borrower and its
other Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, shall have occurred since
June 30, 1998, in either case which, in the judgment of the
Administrative Agents, will, or is reasonably likely to, result
in a Material Adverse Effect.

          (f)  Fees and Expenses Paid.  There shall have been
paid to the Collateral Agent, for the accounts of the Lenders,
Issuing Banks, the Administrative Agents, and Collateral Agent,
as applicable, all fees and expenses due and payable on or before
the Closing Date under the Fee Letter, the Commitment Letter, and
other Contractual Obligations of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries related to the transactions referenced in this
Agreement to which the Collateral Agent and Administrative Agents
are a party.

          (g)  Fees and Expenses Under TFC/RHI/FHC Credit
Agreement and Banner Credit Agreement Paid.  All unpaid fees,
interest and expenses accrued under the terms of the TFC/RHI/FHC
Credit Agreement, Banner Credit Agreement, and other agreements
referred to therein through the Closing Date, shall have been
paid in full in immediately available funds.

          (h)  The Senior Subordinated Notes.  The Senior
Subordinated Notes shall have been issued pursuant to, and in
accordance with, the terms of the Senior Subordinated Note
Indenture (the terms of which shall have been determined to be
satisfactory to the Administrative Agents) and the Borrower shall
have received a minimum of $275,000,000 in gross cash proceeds
from the issuance thereof, the net cash proceeds from which
issuance shall have been used to pay the cash portion of the
purchase price under the terms of the Kaynar Purchase Agreement
and/or to repay, in part, the Refinanced Indebtedness.

          (i)  The Kaynar Acquisition.  All material consents and
approvals of Governmental Authorities and other Persons required
under Requirements of Law or Contractual Obligations of the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries or Kaynar and its Subsidiaries for
the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Kaynar
Purchase Agreement and/or pertaining thereto and the subject
matter thereof shall have been obtained, or waived with the prior
written consent of the Administrative Agents. Kaynar shall have
merged with and into Dah Dah, Inc. pursuant to the terms of the
Kaynar Purchase Agreement and the Kaynar Non-Compete Contract
shall have become effective by its terms.

          (j)  Sale of AlliedSignal Inc. Capital Stock.  BAR DE,
Inc., a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of Banner, shall have sold all of
the Capital Stock of AlliedSignal Inc., a Delaware corporation,
owned by BAR DE, Inc. that is not subject to either (i) that
certain escrow established in connection with the transfer of
certain assets of Banner and certain of its Subsidiaries to
AlliedSignal Inc. and identified on Schedule 6.01-J or (ii)
reservation for delivery to officers of Banner pursuant to the
Banner Aerospace, Inc. Deferred Bonus Plan dated January 21, 1998
identified on Schedule 6.01-J, to a Person which is not an
Affiliate of the Borrower and received in payment therefor cash
in an aggregate amount of not less than $175,000,000.

          6.02.  Conditions Precedent to All Loans and Letters of
Credit.??  The obligation of each Lender to make any Loan
requested to be made by it on any Funding Date and the agreement
of each Issuing Bank to issue any Letter of Credit on any date is
subject to the following conditions precedent as of each such
date, both before and after giving effect to the Loans to be made
and/or the Letter of Credit to be issued on such date:

          (a)  Representations and Warranties.  All of the
representations and warranties of the Borrower and Guarantors
con-tained in Section 7.01 and in any other Loan Document (other
than representations and warran-ties which expressly speak as of
a different date) shall be true and correct in all material
respects.

          (b)  No Defaults.  No Event of Default or Potential
Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would
result from the making of the requested Loan or issuance of the
requested Letter of Credit.

          (c)  No Legal Impediments.  No law, regulation, order,
judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority shall, and the
Collateral Agent shall not have received from any Lender or
Issuing Bank notice that, in the judgment of such Lender or
Issuing Bank, litigation is pending or threatened which is likely
to, enjoin, prohibit or restrain, or impose or result in the
imposition of any material adverse condi-tion upon, (i) such
Lender's making of the requested Loan or participation in the
requested Letter of Credit or (ii) such Issuing Bank's issuance
of the requested Letter of Credit.

          (d)  No Material Adverse Effect.  No event shall have
occurred since the date of this Agreement which has resulted, or
is reasonably likely to result, in a Material Adverse Effect.

          (e)  Notice of Borrowing.  The Borrower shall have
executed and delivered to the Collateral Agent a Notice of
Borrowing in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02.

Each submission by the Borrower to the Collateral Agent of a
Notice of Borrowing with respect to any Loan or a Notice of
Conversion/Continuation with respect to any Loan, each acceptance
by the Borrower of the proceeds of each Loan made, converted or
continued hereunder, each submission by the Borrower to an
Issuing Bank of a request for issuance of a Letter of Credit and
the issu-ance of such Letter of Credit, shall constitute a repre-
sentation and warranty by the Borrower as of the Funding Date in
respect of such Loan, the date of conversion or continuation and
the date of issu-ance of such Letter of Credit, that all the
conditions contained in this Section 6.02 have been satisfied or
waived in accordance with Section 15.07.





                          ARTICLE VII
                 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

          7.01.  Representations and Warranties of the Borrower.
?? In order to induce the Lenders and the Issuing Banks to enter
into this Agreement and to make the Loans and the other financial
accommodations to the Borrower and to issue the Letters of Credit
described herein, the Borrower hereby represents and warrants to
each Lender, each Issuing Bank, each Administrative Agent, and
the Collateral Agent that the following statements are true,
correct and complete:

          (a)  Organization; Corporate Powers.  (i) The Borrower
and each Subsidiary of the Borrower (A) is a corporation duly
organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws
of the jurisdiction of its organization, (B) is duly qualified to
do business as a foreign corporation and is in good standing
under the laws of each jurisdic-tion in which failure to be so
qualified and in good standing will have or is reasonably likely
to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (C) has all requisite
corporate power and authority to own, operate and encumber its
Property and to conduct its business as presently conducted and
as proposed to be conducted in connec-tion with and following the
consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
The Borrower and each Subsidiary of the Borrower which is a
Domestic Subsidiary has filed and maintained effective (unless
exempt from the requirements for filing) a current Business
Activity Report with the appropriate Governmental Authority in
the states of Minnesota and New Jersey.

          (ii)  True, correct and complete copies of the
Organizational Documents identified on Schedule 7.01-A attached
hereto and the Organizational Documents for each Domestic
Subsidiary formed or acquired after the Closing Date have been
delivered to the Collateral Agent, each of which is in full force
and effect, has not been modified or amended except to the extent
indicated therein and, to the best of the Borrower's knowledge,
there are no defaults under such Organizational Documents and no
events which, with the passage of time or giving of notice or
both, would constitute a default under such Organizational
Documents.

          (b)  Authority.  (i)  The Borrower and each Subsidiary
of the Borrower has the requisite corporate power and authority
(A) to execute, deliver and perform each of the Loan Documents
which have been executed by it as required by this Agreement on
or prior to the Closing Dat-e and (B) to file or record the Loan
Documents which have been filed or recorded by it with any
Governmental Authority as required by this Agreement on or prior
to the Closing Date.

          (ii)  The execution, delivery, performance and filing
or recording, as the case may be, of each of the Loan Documents
which have been executed, filed or recorded as required by this
Agreement on or prior to the Closing Date and to which the
Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower is party and the
consummation of the trans-actions contemplated thereby, have been
duly approved by the respective boards of directors (or
substantially similar governance bodies, as applicable) and, if
necessary, the shareholders of such Person and such approvals
have not been rescinded.  No other corporate action or proceed-
ings on the part of the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the
Borrower is necessary to consummate such transac-tions.

          (iii)  Each of the Loan Documents to which the Borrower
or any Subsidiary of the Borrower is a party (A) has been duly
executed, delivered, filed or recorded, as the case may be, by
it, (B) where applicable, creates valid and perfected first Liens
in the Collateral covered thereby securing the payment of all of
the Obligations purported to be secured thereby, (C) constitutes
such Person's respective legal, valid and binding obligation,
enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, and (D) is
in full force and effect and no material term or condi-tion
thereof has been amended, modified or waived from the terms and
condi-tions con-tained therein as delivered to the Collateral
Agent pursuant to Section 6.01(a) without the prior written
consent of the Requisite Lenders. All parties to the Loan
Documents have performed and complied with all the terms,
provisions, agreements and condi-tions set forth therein and
required to be performed or complied with by such parties on or
before the Closing Date, all filings and recordings and other
actions which are necessary or desirable to perfect and protect
the Liens granted pursuant to the Loan Documents and preserve
their required priority have been duly taken, and no Potential
Event of Default, Event of Default or breach of any covenant by
any such party exists thereunder.

          (c)  Subsidiaries; Ownership of Equity Securities.
Schedule 7.01-C attached hereto (i) contains a diagram indicating
the corporate structure, as of the Closing Date, of the Borrower,
its Subsidiaries and any other Person in which the Borrower or
any of its Subsidiaries holds a direct or indirect partnership,
joint venture or other equity interest and indicates the nature
of such interest with respect to each Person included in such
diagram and (ii) accurately sets forth (A) the correct legal name
of such Person, the jurisdiction of its incorporation or
organization and the jurisdictions in which it is qualified to
transact business as a foreign corporation or otherwise and (B)
the authorized, issued and outstanding shares or interests of
each class of equity Securities of the Borrower and each of its
Sub-sidiaries and the owners of such shares or interests of the
Subsidiaries of the Borrower.  None of such issued and
outstanding equity Securities is subject to any vesting,
redemption, or repurchase agreement, and there are no warrants,
puts, or options (other than Permitted Equity Securities Options)
outstanding with respect to such equity Securities other than as
disclosed on Schedule 7.01-C.  The outstanding equity Securities
of the Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries are duly authorized,
validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable free and clear of
any Liens, except for the Liens granted pursuant to the Loan
Documents, and are not Margin Stock except as specifically
identified on Schedule 7.01-C. The Borrower controls, directly or
through a Domestic Subsidiary, the voting power attendant to all
of the Capital Stock of each of the Guarantors.

          (d)  No Conflict.  The execution, delivery and perfor-
mance of each of the Loan Documents to which the Borrower or any
Subsidiary of the Borrower is a party do not and will not (i)
conflict with the Organizational Documents of such Person, (ii)
constitute a tortious interference with any Con-tractual
Obligation of any Person or conflict with, result in a breach of
or constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time or both) a
default under any Requirement of Law or Contrac-tual Obli-gation
of such Person, or require termination of any Contrac-tual
Obligation, the consequences of which violation, breach, default
or termina-tion, singly or in the aggregate, will, or is
reasonably likely to, result in a Material Adverse Effect or may
subject the Collateral Agent, any of the Lenders or any of the
Issuing Banks to any liability, (iii) result in or require the
creation or imposition of any Lien whatsoever upon any of the
Property or assets of such Person, other than Liens contemplated
by the Loan Documents, or (iv) require any approval of such
Person's share-holders, which has not been obtained.

          (e)  Governmental Consents.  The execution, delivery
and performance of each of the Loan Documents to which the
Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower is a party do not and
will not require any registration with, consent or approval of,
or notice to, or other action to, with or by any Governmental
Authority, except (i) filings, consents or notices which have
been made, obtained or given and (ii) filings necessary to create
or perfect the Collateral Agent's security interests in the
Collateral.

          (f)  Governmental Regulation.  Neither the Borrower nor
any Subsidiary of the Borrower is subject to regulation under the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, the Federal Power
Act, the Interstate Commerce Act, or the Investment Company Act
of 1940, or any other federal or state statute or regulation or
other Requirement of Law which limits its ability to incur
indebted-ness or its ability to consummate the transactions
contemplated hereby or by the Loan Documents.

          (g)  Restricted Junior Payments.  Neither the Borrower
nor any Subsidiary of the Borrower has either directly or
indirectly declared, ordered, paid or made or set apart any sum
or Property for any Restricted Junior Payment or agreed to do so,
except as permitted pursuant to Section 10.05.

          (h)  Pro Forma Financials; Projections.  The Pro Forma
Balance Sheet, copies of which have been furnished to the Lenders
on the Closing Date, fairly presents on a pro forma basis the
financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a
consolidated basis, as of the date designated therein.  The
Projections, and the assumptions expressed in the Pro Forma
Balance Sheet, are reasonable based on the information avail-able
to the Borrower at the time so furnished.

          (i)  Indebtedness.  Schedule 1.01.7 attached hereto
sets forth, as of the Closing Date, all Indebtedness for Borrowed
Money of the Borrower and the Borrower's Subsidiaries and there
are no defaults in the payment of principal or interest on any
such Indebtedness and no payments thereunder have been deferred
or extended beyond their stated maturity (except as disclosed on
such Schedule).

          (j)  Litigation; Adverse Effects.  Except as set forth
in Schedule 7.01-J attached hereto, there is no action, suit,
proceeding, Claim, investigation or arbitration before or by any
Governmental Authority or private arbitrator pending or, to the
knowledge of the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Subsidiaries,
threatened against the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the
Borrower, or with respect to which the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries may have successor liability,  or any of the
Property (i) challenging the validity or the enforceability of
any of the Loan Docu-ments, (ii) which will, or is reasonably
likely to, result in any Material Adverse Effect, or (iii) under
the Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act or any
similar federal or state statute where such Person is a defendant
in a criminal indictment that provides for the forfeiture of
assets to any Governmental Authority as a criminal penalty.
There is no material loss contingency within the meaning of GAAP
which has not been reflected in the Pro Forma Balance Sheet or,
after the Closing Date, the consolidated Financial Statements of
the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.  Neither the Borrower nor any
Subsidiary of the Borrower is (A) in violation of any applicable
Requirements of Law which violation will result, or is reasonably
likely to result, in a Material Adverse Effect, or (B) subject to
or in default with respect to any final judgment, writ,
injunction, restraining order or order of any nature, decree,
rule or regulation of any court or Governmental Authority which
will, or is reasonably likely to, result in a Material Adverse
Effect.

          (k)  No Material Adverse Effect.  Since June 30, 1998,
there has occurred no event with respect to the Borrower or any
Affiliate of the Borrower which has resulted, or is reasonably
likely to result, in a Material Adverse Effect.

          (l)  Tax Examinations.  The IRS has examined (or is
foreclosed from examining by applicable statutes) the
consolidated federal income tax returns of the Borrower for all
tax periods prior to and including the taxable year ending June
30, 1995 and of Kaynar for all tax periods prior to and including
the taxable year ending December 31, 1995.  All defi-cien-cies
which have been asserted against the Borrower or any of the
Borrower's Subsidiaries as a result of any federal, state, local
or foreign tax examination for each taxable year in respect of
which an examination has been conducted have been fully paid or
finally settled or are being contested in good faith, and no
issue has been raised in any such examination which, by
application of similar principles, reason-ably can be expected to
result in assertion of a material deficiency for any other year
not so examined which has not been reserved for in the Borrower's
consolidated Financial Statements heretofore delivered to the
Collateral Agent to the extent, if any, required by GAAP.
Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary of the Borrower has taken
any reporting positions for which it does not have a reasonable
basis and does not anticipate any further material adverse tax
liability with respect to the years which have not been closed
pursuant to applicable law and which are not reserved in the
Financial Statements described above or the Financial Statements
of the Borrower, as applicable.

          (m)  Payment of Taxes.  All tax returns and reports of
the Borrower and each of the Borrower's Subsidiaries (or the
respective predecessors in interest of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries) required to be filed have been timely filed, and
all taxes, assessments, fees and other charges of Governmental
Authorities thereupon and upon or relating to their respective
Property, assets, income and franchises which are shown in such
returns or reports to be due and payable have been paid, except
to the extent (i) such taxes, assessments, fees and other charges
are being contested in good faith by an appropriate proceeding
diligently pursued as permitted by the terms of Section 9.04 and
(ii) non-payment of the amounts thereof would not, individually
or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.  The
Borrower has no knowl-edge of any proposed tax assess-ment
against the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower (or the
respective predecessors in interest of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries) that will, or is reasonably likely to, result in a
Material Adverse Effect.

          (n)  Performance.  None of the Borrower, any Subsidiary
of the Borrower, or any predecessor in interest of the Borrower
or any of its Subsidiaries, has received any notice, citation, or
allegation, nor has actual knowledge, that (i) it is in default
in the perfor-mance, observance or fulfillment of any of the
obligations, covenants or conditions contained in any Contractual
Obligation applicable to it, (ii) any Property of the Borrower or
any Subsidiary of the Borrower is in violation of any Requirement
of Law, or (iii) any condition exists which, with the giving of
notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute a default
with respect to any such Contractual Obligation, in each case,
except where such default or defaults, if any, will not, or is
not reasonably likely to, result in a Material Adverse Effect.

          (o)  Disclosure.  The Confidential Information
Memorandum dated March 1999 provided to the Lenders and the Loan
Documents, and all certificates and other documents delivered to
the Administrative Agents and/or Collateral Agent pursuant to the
terms thereof, do not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make
the statements con-tained herein or therein, in light of the
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The
Borrower has not intentionally withheld any fact from the
Administrative Agents, the Collateral Agent, the Issuing Banks or
the Lenders in regard to the matters disclosed under or in
connection with the Kaynar Purchase Agreement or in regard to any
matter which will, or is reason-ably likely to, result in a
Material Adverse Effect.

          (p)  Requirements of Law.  The Borrower and each
Subsidiary of the Borrower, respectively, is in compliance with
all Requirements of Law applicable to it and its respective
businesses, in each case where the failure to so comply
individually or in the aggregate will, or is reason-ably likely
to, result in a Mate-rial Adverse Effect.

          (q)  Environmental Matters.  (i) Except as disclosed on
Schedule 7.01-Q attached hereto:

          (A) neither the Borrower nor any Domestic Subsidiary
(or any of their respective predecessors in interest) has
received any unresolved notice from any federal, state or local
agency to the effect that its operations are not in compliance
with any applicable Environmental, Health or Safety Requirements
of Law or the subject of any federal or state investigation
evaluating whether any remedial action is needed to respond to a
Release of a Contaminant into the environment;

          (B) to the knowledge of the Borrower, neither it nor
any Domestic Subsidiary (or any of their respective predecessors
in interest), or any of their respective present or past Property
or operations, are subject to or the subject of any judicial or
administrative proceeding, order, judgment, decree, dispute,
negotiations, agreement, or settlement respecting (I) any
Environmental, Health or Safety Requirements of Law, (II) any
Remedial Action, (III) any Claims or Liabilities and Costs
arising from the Release or threatened Release of a Contaminant
into the environment, or (IV) any violation of or liability under
any Environmental, Health or Safety Requirement of Law that the
Borrower reasonably believes will result in a material
expenditure of money;

          (C)  none of the Borrower, any Domestic Subsidiary, or
any of their respective predecessors in interest has filed any
notice under any applicable Requirement of Law (I) reporting a
Release of a Contaminant where remedial action has not been
conducted to the satisfaction of the appropriate Governmental
Authority; or (II) reporting a violation of any applicable
Environmental, Health or Safety Requirement of Law where such
violation has not been corrected to the satisfaction of the
appropriate Governmental Authority;

          (D)  none of the Borrower's or the Domestic
Subsidiaries' present or past Property is listed or, to the
knowledge of the Borrower, proposed for listing on the National
Priorities List ("NPL") pursuant to CERCLA or on the
Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation Liability
Information System List ("CERCLIS") or any similar state list of
sites requiring Remedial Action;

          (E)  to the knowledge of the Borrower, neither the
Borrower nor any Domestic Subsidiary has any material contingent
liability in connection with any Release or threatened Release of
any Contaminants into the environment; and

          (F)  no Environmental Lien has attached to any
Property.


          (ii)  The Borrower and each Domestic Subsidiary are
conducting and will continue to conduct their respective business
and operations in an environmentally responsible manner in
material compliance with Environmental, Health or Safety
Requirements of Law, and the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken
as a whole, have not been, and have no reason to believe that
they will be, subject to Liabilities and Costs arising out of or
relating to environmental, health or safety matters that have or
will result in material cash expenditures by the Borrower and the
Domestic Subsidiaries in the aggregate in excess of the reserves
established therefor and disclosed in the Borrower's Financial
Statements.

          (r)  ERISA.  Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary of
the Borrower contributes to any Benefit Plan, Multiemployer Plan
or Foreign Pension Plan. No ERISA Event has occurred or is
reasonably expected to occur that has resulted or is reasonably
likely to result in a material liability of the Borrower or any
Subsidiary of the Borrower. Schedule B (Actuarial Information) to
the 1995 annual report (Form 5500 Series) for each Benefit Plan,
copies of which have been filed with the Internal Revenue Service
and furnished to the Collateral Agent, is complete and accurate
and fairly presents the funding status of such Benefit Plan, and
since the date of such Schedule B there has been no material
adverse change in such funding status. Neither the Borrower nor
any ERISA Affiliate has incurred or is reasonably expected to
incur any withdrawal liability to any Multiemployer Plan. Neither
the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has been notified by the
sponsor of a Multiemployer Plan that such Multiemployer Plan is
in reorganization or has been terminated, within the meaning of
Title IV of ERISA, and no Multiemployer Plan is reasonably
expected to be in reorganization or to be terminated, within the
meaning of Title IV of ERISA. The aggregate annualized cost
(including, without limitation, the cost of insurance premiums)
with respect to post-retirement benefits under Benefit Plans for
which the Borrower and/or any of its Subsidiaries is liable does
not exceed $10,000,000.
          (s)  Foreign Employee Benefit Matters.  Each Foreign
Employee Benefit Plan is in compliance in all material respects
with all laws, regulations and rules applicable thereto and the
respective requirements of the governing documents for such Plan.
The aggregate of the liabilities to provide all of the accrued
benefits under any Foreign Pension Plan does not exceed the
current fair market value of the assets held in the trust or
other funding vehicle for such Plan.  With respect to any Foreign
Employee Benefit Plan maintained or contributed to by the
Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any ERISA Affiliate (other
than a Foreign Pension Plan), reasonable reserves have been
established in accordance with prudent business practice or where
required by ordinary accounting practices in the jurisdiction in
which such Plan is maintained.  The aggregate unfunded
liabilities, after giving effect to any reserves for such
liabilities, with respect to such Plans does not exceed the
current fair market value of the assets held in the trust or
other funding vehicle for such Plan.  There are no actions, suits
or claims (other than routine claims for benefits) pending or, to
the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened against the
Borrower, any Sub-sidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate
with respect to any Foreign Employee Benefit Plan.

          (t)  Labor Matters.  Schedule 7.01-T accurately sets
forth all labor contracts, other than national union agreements
to which any Subsidiary of the Borrower domiciled in Europe is a
party, to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower is
a party on the date hereof and the expiration date of each such
contract.  There are no strikes, lockouts or other grievances
relating to any collective bargaining or similar agreement to
which the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower is a party.

          (u)  Securities Activities.  Neither the Borrower nor
any Subsidiary of the Borrower is engaged in the business of
extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin
Stock.

          (v)  Solvency.  After giving effect to the Banner
Distribution, the Loans to be made and Letters of Credit to be
issued or continued on the Closing Date or such other date as
Loans requested hereunder are made or Letters of Credit requested
hereunder are issued, the guarantees of the Obligations executed
and delivered by the Guarantors, the disbursement of the proceeds
of such Loans pursuant to the Borrower's instructions, the
repayment of the Refinanced Indebtedness, the issuance of the
Senior Subordinated Notes and guarantees thereof executed and
delivered by the Guarantors, and the acquisition of Kaynar
pursuant to the Kaynar Purchase Agreement, the Borrower and each
Guarantor is Solvent.

          (w)  Patents, Trademarks, Permits, Etc.; Government
Approvals.  (i)  The Borrower and each Subsidiary of the
Borrower, as applicable, owns, is licensed or otherwise has the
lawful right to use, or has all Permits and other governmental
approvals, patents, trade-marks, trade names, copyrights, tech-
nol-ogy, know-how, permits and pro-cesses used in or necessary
for the conduct of its respective business as currently conducted
which are material to its condition (financial or otherwise),
operations, performance and prospects, taken as a whole.  Except
as set forth on Schedule 7.01-W attached hereto, no claims are
pending or, to the best of the Borrower's knowledge following
diligent inquiry, threatened that the Borrower or any Subsidiary
of the Borrower is infringing or otherwise adversely affecting
the rights of any Person with respect to such Permits and other
governmental approvals, patents, trademarks, trade names, copy-
rights, tech-nology, know-how, permits and processes, except for
such claims and infringements as do not, in the aggre-gate, give
rise to any liability on the part of the Borrower or any
Subsidiary of the Borrower which will, or is reasonably likely
to, result in a Material Adverse Effect.

          (ii)  The consummation of the transac-tions
contemplated by the Loan Documents will not impair the owner-ship
of or rights under (or the license or other right to use, as the
case may be) any Permits and governmental approvals, patents,
trademarks, trade names, copyrights, tech-nology, know-how,
permits or processes by the Borrower or any Sub-sidiary of the
Borrower in any manner which will, or is reasonably likely to,
result in a Material Adverse Effect.

          (x)  Assets and Properties.  The Borrower and each
Subsidiary of the Borrower has good and marketable title to all
of the assets and Property (tangible and intangible) owned by it
(except insofar as marketability may be limited by any laws or
regulations of any Governmental Authority affecting such assets),
and all such assets and Property are free and clear of all Liens
except Liens securing the Obligations and Liens permitted under
Section 10.03.  Substan-tially all of the assets and Property
owned by, leased to, or used by the Borrower and/or each
Subsidiary of the Borrower in their respective businesses is in
adequate operating condition and repair, ordinary wear and tear
excepted, is free and clear of any known defects except such
defects as do not substantially interfere with the continued use
thereof in the conduct of normal opera-tions, and is able to
serve the function for which they are currently being used,
except in each case where the failure of such asset to meet such
requirements would not, or is not reasonably likely to, result in
a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither this Agreement nor any other
Loan Docu-ment, nor any transaction contem-plated under any such
agreement, will affect any right, title or interest of the
Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower in and to any of such
assets in a manner that would, or is reasonably likely to, result
in a Material Adverse Effect.

          (y)  Insurance.  Schedule 7.01-Y attached hereto or as
amended from time to time accurately sets forth as of the date of
such Schedule all insurance policies and programs in effect with
respect to the respective Property and assets and business of the
Borrower and the Borrower's Subsidiaries, specifying for each
such policy and program, (i) the amount thereof, (ii) the risks
insured against thereby, (iii) the name of the insurer and each
insured party thereunder, (iv) the policy or other identification
number thereof, and (v) the expiration date thereof.  The
Borrower has delivered to the Collateral Agent copies of all such
insurance policies requested by the Collateral Agent.  Such
insurance policies and programs are currently in full force and
effect, in compliance with the requirements of Section 9.05 and
are in amounts sufficient to cover the replacement value of the
respective Property and assets of the Borrower and the Borrower's
Subsidiaries.

          (z)  Pledge of Capital Stock.  The grant and perfection
of the security interest in the Capital Stock of the Subsidiaries
of the Borrower constituting a portion of the Collateral for the
benefit of the Holders, as contemplated by the terms of the Loan
Documents-, is not made in violation of the registration
provisions of the Securi-ties Act, any applicable provisions of
other federal securi-ties laws, state securities or "Blue Sky"
law, foreign securities law, or applicable general corporation
law or in violation of any other Requirement of Law.


For purposes of the representations and warranties made under
this Agreement and the other Loan Documents on the Closing Date,
each of Banner and Kaynar, and their respective Subsidiaries,
shall be deemed to constitute a Subsidiary of the Borrower.



                          ARTICLE VIII
                      REPORTING COVENANTS
??
          The Borrower covenants and agrees that so long as any
Revolving Credit Commitments are outstanding and thereafter until
payment in full of all of the Obligations (other than indemnities
not yet due), unless the Requisite Lenders shall otherwise give
their prior written consent thereto:

          8.01. Financial Statements; Communications with
Accountants.?? The Borrower shall, and shall cause each of its
Subsidiaries to, maintain, a system of accounting established and
administered in accordance with sound business practices to
permit preparation of consolidated Finan-cial Statements in
conformity with GAAP and each of the Finan-cial Statements
described below shall be prepared from such system and records.

          (a)  Quarterly Financial Reports.  (i) The Borrower
shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the Collateral Agent
and the Lenders (A) consolidated balance sheets for the Fiscal
Quarter then ended, income statements and cash flow statements of
the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a quarterly and Fiscal Year
to date basis, (B) consolidating balance sheets by Operating Unit
and/or Unrestricted Subsidiaries as of the Fiscal Quarter then
ended and income statements by Operating Unit on a quarterly and
Fiscal Year to date basis (in the forms attached hereto as
Exhibit I), (C) schedules of the Consolidated Total Debt and
Investments of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in Cash
Equivalents and Eligible Marketable Securities as of the end of
the applicable Fiscal Quarter then ending, and (D) a summary of
the Investments described in Section 10.04(d) made through the
Fiscal Quarter then ended; in each event as soon as practicable,
and in any event within fifty-five (55) days after the end of
each Fiscal Quarter in each Fiscal Year for the Fiscal Quarter
then ending, such Financial Statements for any fourth Fiscal
Quarter of a Fiscal Year being unaudited preliminary Financial
Statements subject to adjustment in connection with the
preparation of audited Financial Statements for such Fiscal Year.

          (ii)  The Financial Statements described in clause (i)
above shall set forth, in comparative form, (A) the figures for
the like period in the previous Fiscal Year and (B) the figures
for the period for which the report is submitted set forth (1) in
the Projections prior to delivery of an updated business plan as
described in Section 8.01(d), or (2) in the most recently dated
business plan delivered as described in Section 8.01(d), in each
instance, all in reasonable detail.

          (b)  Annual Financial Statements.  (i) The Borrower
shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the Collateral Agent
and the Lenders for each Fiscal Year (A) consolidated balance
sheets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such
Fiscal Year, (B) the related consolidated statements of income
and cash flow for such Fiscal Year, and (C) consolidating balance
sheets by Operating Unit and statements of income by Operating
Unit for such Fiscal Year, as soon as practicable and in any
event within one hundred (100) days after the end of each Fiscal
Year. The consolidated Financial Statements of the Borrower and
its Subsidiaries shall be accompanied by a report thereon of
Arthur Andersen LLP or other independent certified public
accountants of recognized national standing satisfactory to the
Requisite Lenders, which report shall be unqualified and shall
state that such consolidated financial statements present fairly
the financial position of the applicable Persons, as at the dates
indicated and the results of their operations and changes in
their financial position for the periods indicated in conformity
with GAAP applied on a basis consistent with prior years (or, in
the event of a change in accounting principles, such accountants'
concurrence with such change) and that the examination by such
accountants in connection with such consolidated financial
statements has been made in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards.

          (ii)  The Financial Statements described in clause (i)
above shall set forth, in comparative form, (A) the figures for
the like period in the previous Fiscal Year and (B) the figures
for the period for which the report is submitted set forth (1) in
the Projections prior to delivery of an updated business plan as
described in Section 8.01(d), or (2) in the most recently dated
business plan delivered as described in Section 8.01(d), in each
instance, all in reasonable detail.

          (c)   Officer's Certificates.  (i) An Officer's
Certificate of the Borrower substan-tially in the form of Exhibit
I attached hereto and made a part hereof shall accompany the
Financial Statements certifying that such Financial Statements
fairly present the financial position of the respective Operating
Units or Persons, as applicable, as at the dates indicated and
the results of their opera-tions for the periods indicated in
accordance with GAAP, subject to normal year end adjustments, and
stating that the officer signatory thereto has reviewed the terms
of the Loan Documents, and has made, or caused to be made under
his/her super-vision, a review in reasonable detail of the
transactions and consolidated financial condition of the
Operating Units or Persons, as applicable, during the accounting
period covered by such Financial Statements, that such review has
not dis-closed the existence during or at the end of such account-
ing period, and that such Person does not have knowledge of the
exist-ence as at the date of such Officer's Certificate, of any
condi-tion or event which constitutes an Event of Default or
Potential Event of Default, or, if any such condition or event
existed or exists, specifying the nature and period of existence
thereof and what action the Borrower or its Subsidiaries has/have
taken, is/are taking and proposes/propose to take with respect
thereto.

          (ii) The appropriate Financial Statements referenced
above shall also be accompanied by a certificate (the "Compliance
Certificate"), signed by the treasurer or vice president of the
Borrower, setting forth calculations for the period then ended
which demonstrate compliance with the provisions of Article XI,
including, without limitation, the amount of Capital Expenditures
made, on a cumulative basis since the beginning of the respective
Fiscal Year, and reconciliation of the same with the related
Financial Statements.

          (d)  Annual Business Plan.  With reasonable promptness
after the Borrower's preparation thereof, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Collateral Agent and Lenders an annual business
plan.

          (e)  Communications with Accountants.  The Borrower
authorizes (i) the Collateral Agent, after giving the Borrower
reasonable prior written notice of its intent to do so, to
communicate directly with the Borrower's independent certified
public accountants concerning the Financial Statements; provided
that the Borrower is not precluded by the Collateral Agent from
being present for such communication and (ii) such independent
certified public accountants, upon the Collateral Agent's written
request with a copy to the Borrower, to provide to the Collateral
Agent copies of any financial schedules prepared by such
accountants for the Borrower or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.

          8.02.  Events of Default.??  Promptly upon any of the
president, any vice president, or the treasurer of the Borrower
obtaining knowledge (a) of any condition or event which
constitutes an Event of Default or Potential Event of Default, or
becoming aware that any Lender or the Collateral Agent has given
any notice with respect to a claimed Event of Default or
Potential Event of Default under this Agreement, (b) that any
Person has given any notice to the Borrower or any Subsidiary of
the Borrower or taken any other action with respect to a claimed
default or event or condition of the type referred to in Sec-tion
12.01(e), or (c) of any condition or event which has resulted, or
is reasonably likely to result, in a Material Adverse Effect or
affect the value of, or the Collateral Agent's interest in, the
Collateral in any material respect, the Borrower shall deliver to
the Collateral Agent and the Lenders an Officer's Certificate
specifying (i) the nature and period of existence of any such
claimed default, Event of Default, Potential Event of Default,
condition or event, (ii) the notice given or action taken by such
Person in connection therewith, and (iii) what action the
Borrower or Subsidiary of the Borrower has taken, is taking
and/or proposes to take with respect thereto.

          8.03.  Lawsuits.??  Promptly upon the Borrower's obtain-
ing knowledge of the institution of, or written threat of, any
action, suit, proceeding, governmental investigation or arbitra-
tion against or affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the
Borrower or any of the Property not previously disclosed pursuant
to Section 7.01(j), which action, suit, proceeding, governmental
investigation or arbitration exposes, or in the case of multiple
actions, suits, proceedings, governmental investiga-tions or
arbitrations arising out of the same general allegations or
circumstances which expose, in the Borrower's reasonable
judgment, the Borrower and/or any Subsidiary of the Borrower to
liability in an amount aggregating $5,000,000 or more (exclusive
of claims covered by insurance policies of the Borrower and the
Borrower's Subsidiaries unless the insurers of such claims have
disclaimed coverage or reserved the right to disclaim cover-age
on such claims), the Borrower shall give written notice thereof
to the Collateral Agent and the Lenders and provide such other
information as may be reasonably available to enable each Lender
and the Collateral Agent and its counsel to evaluate such
matters. The Borrower, upon request of the Collateral Agent or
the Requisite Lenders, shall promptly give written notice of the
status of any action, suit, proceeding, governmental
investigation or arbitration covered by a report delivered in
accordance herewith and provide such other information as may be
reasonably available to it to enable each Lender and the
Collateral Agent and its counsel to evaluate such matters.

          8.04. ?? Environmental Notices??.  The  Borrower shall
notify the Collateral Agent and the Lenders in writing, promptly
upon the Borrower's learning thereof, of any:


          (a)  notice or claim to the effect that the
     Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower is subject
     to investigation or may be subject to investigation or
     liable in an amount exceeding $4,000,000 to any Person
     as a result of the Release or threatened Release of any
     Contaminant into the environment;

          (b)  notice that any Property is subject to an
     Environmental Lien; and

          (c)  notice to the Borrower or any Subsidiary of
     the Borrower of any material violation of any
     Environmental, Health or Safety Requirement of Law or
     the commencement or threat of any judicial or
     Collateral proceeding alleging such a material
     violation by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the
     Borrower.

Concurrently with the annual delivery to the independent
accountants of the Borrower of a letter relating to financial
exposure of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries with respect to
Environmental Liabilities and Costs substantially in the form of
that letter dated August 18, 1998 addressed to Arthur Andersen
LLP, a copy of which has been delivered to the Collateral Agent
prior to the Closing Date, the Borrower shall deliver a like
letter addressed to the Collateral Agent; provided, however, that
in the event no such letter is provided to the independent
accountants of the Borrower with respect to any given Fiscal
Year, such letter shall be prepared with respect to such Fiscal
Year and delivered to the Collateral Agent on October 31 of the
calendar year in which such Fiscal Year ends.

          8.05.  Other Reports and Information.??  (a) Notices of
Publicly Available Information.  The Borrower shall deliver or
cause to be delivered to the Collateral Agent and the Lenders
notice of publicly available Financial Statements, reports and
notices, if any, sent or made available generally by the Borrower
to its Securities holders or filed with the Commission and all
press releases made available generally by the Borrower or any
Subsidiary of the Borrower to the public concerning material
developments in the business of the Borrower or any Subsidiary of
the Borrower, in each instance, promptly upon the making of such
reports, giving of such notices or press releases, and filings
with the Commission.

          (b)  Copies of Information Provided Upon Request.
Promptly upon receiving a request therefor from (i) the
Collateral Agent or any Lender, the Borrower shall deliver to the
Collateral Agent or such Lender, as applicable, copies of the
notices, reports, press releases and filings referenced in any
notice delivered pursuant to Section 8.05(a) and (ii) from the
Collateral Agent or the Requisite Lenders, the Borrower shall
prepare and deliver to the Collateral Agent and the Lenders such
other reports, filings, data and information with respect to the
Borrower, any of the Borrower's Subsidiaries, or the Collateral,
including, without limitation, schedules identifying and
describing the Collateral and any dispositions thereof, as from
time to time may be reasonably requested by the Collateral Agent
or the Requisite Lenders.

          (c)  Notifications under Securities Exchange Act.  The
Borrower shall deliver to the Collateral Agent and all Lenders
copies of all notifications received by the Borrower or any
Subsidiary of the Borrower pursuant to the Securi-ties Exchange
Act and the rules promulgated thereunder, promptly upon the
receipt of such notifications.

          8.06.  Unrestricted Subsidiaries.?? The Borrower may
designate, by written notice to the Collateral Agent, any of its
Subsidiaries which is a Restricted Subsidiary, other than Kaynar,
Banner and any Subsidiary which is part of the Operating Unit
known as Fairchild Fasteners Group, as an Unrestricted Subsidiary
at any time and from time to time; provided that at the time of
such designation and after giving effect to the designation
specified in such notice, (a) the Unrestricted Subsidiaries Net
Investment Amount does not exceed $20,000,000 as of the date of
any such designation, (b) no Event of Default or Potential Event
of Default has occurred and is continuing unwaived, (c) on a pro
forma basis, determined for the four (4) Fiscal Quarters
immediately preceding the date of any such designation giving
effect to such designation as though it had occurred on the first
day of such four Fiscal Quarter period, no breach of any covenant
included in Article XI would have occurred as evidenced by
written confirmation of the calculation of the covenants included
in Article XI for such period delivered to the Collateral Agent
concurrent with the related notice of such  designation, (d) the
sum of (i) the amount of cash held by the Borrower and the
Restricted Subsidiaries at such time after giving effect to such
designation plus (ii) the amount of Availability at such time
equals at least $25,000,000, (e) the Restricted Subsidiary the
Borrower wishes to designate as an Unrestricted Subsidiary has no
Subsidiary which is part of the Fairchild Fasteners Group
Operating Unit or an Investment in a Person which is part of the
Fairchild Fasteners Group Operating Unit and (f) the Collateral
Agent has consented to such designation.

          8.07.  Corporate Organization; Indebtedness for
Borrowed Money.?? The Borrower shall deliver to the Collateral
Agent (a) an updated diagram of its corporate structure in the
form of Schedule 7.01-C upon the preparation of the same and, in
any event, at least once each Fiscal Year, and (b) an updated
disclosure of outstanding Indebtedness for Borrowed Money of the
Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries in the form of Schedule
1.01.7 upon the preparation of the same for any purpose; in each
instance, provided that there has been any change in such
corporate structure or such outstanding Indebtedness for Borrowed
Money since the most recent date of submission of the same.



                           ARTICLE IX
                    AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS??

          The Borrower covenants and agrees that so long as any
Revolving Credit Commitment is outstanding and there-after until
payment in full of all of the Obliga-tions (other than
indemnities not yet due), unless the Requisite Lenders shall
otherwise give prior written consent:

          9.01.  Corporate Existence, Etc.??  The Borrower shall,
and shall cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, at all
times main-tain its corporate existence and preserve and keep, or
cause to be preserved and kept, in full force and effect its
rights and franchises material to its businesses, except where
the loss or termination of such rights and franchises is not
likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.

          9.02.  Corporate Powers; Conduct of Business.??  The
Borrower shall, and shall cause each of its Material Subsidiaries
to, qualify and remain quali-fied to do business and maintain its
good standing in each jurisdiction in which the nature of its
business and the ownership of its Property requires it to be so
qualified and in good standing.

          9.03.  Compliance with Laws, Etc.??  The Borrower
shall, and shall cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, (a)
comply with all Require-ments of Law and all restric-tive
covenants affecting it or its business, Property, assets or
operations and (b) obtain as needed all Permits necessary for its
operations and maintain such Permits in good standing, except in
the case where noncompliance with either clause (a) or (b) above
is not reason-ably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.

          9.04.  Payment of Taxes and Claims; Tax
Consolidation.??  The Borrower shall, and shall cause each of its
Material Subsidiaries to, pay (a) all taxes, assessments and
other governmental charges imposed upon it or on any of its
Property or assets or in respect of any of its franchises,
business, income or Property before any penalty or interest
accrues thereon, and (b) all Claims (includ-ing, without
limitation, claims for labor, services, materials and supplies)
for sums which have become due and payable and which by law have
or may become a Lien (other than a Lien permitted by Section
10.03) upon any Property or assets of the Borrower or any such
Subsidi-ary, prior to the time when any penalty or fine shall be
incurred with respect thereto; provided, however, that no such
taxes, assess-ments and governmental charges referred to in
clause (a) above or Claims referred to in clause (b) above need
be paid if being con-tested in good faith by appropriate pro-ceed-
ings diligently instituted and conducted and if such reserve or
other appropriate provision, if any, as shall be required in
conformity with GAAP shall have been made therefor.  The Borrower
will not, and will not permit any of its Material Subsidiaries
to, file or consent to the filing of any consolidated income tax
return with any Person other than its Subsidiaries-.

          9.05.  Insurance.??  The Borrower shall maintain for
itself and its Subsidiaries, or shall cause each of its
Subsidiaries to maintain, in full force and effect the insurance
policies and programs listed on Schedule 7.01-Y or substantially
similar policies and programs or other policies and programs as
are reasonably acceptable to the Collateral Agent.  All such
policies and programs shall be maintained with responsible and
reputable insurers of companies engaged in similar businesses and
owning similar property in the same general geographic areas in
which such Person, as applicable, operates.  Each certificate and
policy relating to Property damage, boiler and machinery and/or
business interruption coverage shall contain an endorsement, in
form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Collateral Agent,
showing loss payable to the Collateral Agent, for the benefit of
the Holders, and, if required by the Collateral Agent, naming the
Collateral Agent as an additional insured under such policy.
Each certificate and policy relating to coverage other than the
foregoing shall, if required by the Collateral Agent, contain an
endorsement naming the Collateral Agent as an additional insured
or mortgagee payee, as applicable, under such policy.  Such
endorsement or an independent instrument furnished to the
Collateral Agent shall provide that the insurance companies will
give the Collateral Agent at least thirty (30) days' written
notice before any such policy or policies of insurance shall be
altered adversely to the interests of the Holders or canceled and
that no act, whether willful or negligent, or default of the
Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any other Person
shall affect the right of the Collateral Agent to recover under
such policy or policies of insurance in case of loss or damage.
In the event the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Subsidiaries
at any time or times hereafter shall fail to obtain or maintain
any of the policies or insurance required herein or to pay any
premium in whole or in part relating thereto, then the Collateral
Agent, without waiving or releasing any obligations or resulting
Event of Default hereunder, may at any time or times thereafter
(but shall be under no obligation to do so) obtain and maintain
such policies of insurance and pay such premiums and take any
other action with respect thereto which the Collateral Agent
deems advisable.  All sums so disbursed by the Collateral Agent
shall constitute Protective Advances hereunder and be part of the
Obligations, payable as provided in this Agreement.

          9.06.  Inspection of Property; Books and Records;
Discus-sions.  ??The Borrower shall, and shall cause each of its
Material Subsid-iaries to, permit any authorized
representative(s) desig-nated by either the Collateral Agent or
any Lender to visit and inspect, whether by access to the
Borrower's and such Subsidiaries' MIS or otherwise, any of the
Property, to examine, audit, check and make copies of its
respective financial and accounting records, books, journals,
orders, receipts and any correspondence (other than privileged
correspondence with legal counsel) and other data relating to
their respective businesses or the transactions contemplated
hereby or referenced herein (including, without limitation, in
connection with environmental compliance, hazard or liability),
and to discuss their affairs, finances and accounts with their
officers, management personnel, and independent certi-fied public
accountants, all upon reasonable written notice and at such
reasonable times during normal business hours, as often as may be
reasonably requested.  Each such visitation and inspection (i) by
or on behalf of any Lender shall be at such Lender's expense and
(ii) by or on behalf of the Collateral Agent shall be at the
Borrower's expense.  The Borrower shall keep and maintain, and
cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep and maintain, in all
material respects on its MIS and otherwise proper books of record
and account in which entries in conformity with GAAP shall be
made of all dealings and transactions in relation to their
respective businesses and activities, including, without
limitation, transactions and other dealings with respect to the
Collateral.  If an Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing, the Borrower, upon the Collateral Agent's request,
shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, turn over any
such records to the Collateral Agent or its representatives;
provided, however, that the Borrower may, in its discretion,
retain copies of such records.

          9.07.  Insurance and Condemnation Proceeds.  (a)
Direction to Insurers. ?? The Borrower hereby directs (and, if
applicable, shall cause the Subsidiaries of the Borrower to
direct) all insurers under policies of property damage, boiler
and machinery and business interruption insurance and payors of
any condemnation claim or award relating to the Property of such
Persons to pay all proceeds payable under such policies or with
respect to such claim or award directly to the Collateral Agent,
for the benefit of the Collateral Agent and the other Holders. In
no case shall such proceeds be payable to the Borrower, or one or
more of the Borrower's Subsidiaries, and the Collateral Agent.

          (b)  Application of Proceeds.  The Collateral Agent
shall, upon receipt of such proceeds, apply all of the proceeds
so received in repayment of the Obligations in the manner set
forth in Section 4.01(b)(vii). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in
the event proceeds of insurance received by the Collateral Agent
under property damage, boiler and machinery policies or business
interruption insurance policies (i) is less than $500,000 or (ii)
constitutes Replacement Proceeds, the Collateral Agent shall,
upon receipt of such proceeds, remit the amount so received to
the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower, as applicable
provided that there shall not then exist an Event of Default
which is continuing unwaived.

          9.08.  ERISA Compliance.  ??The Borrower shall, and
shall cause each of the Borrower's Subsidiaries and ERISA
Affiliates to, estab-lish, maintain and operate all Plans to
comply in all material respects with the provisions of ERISA, the
Internal Revenue Code, all other applicable laws, and the
regulations and interpreta-tions thereunder and the respective
requirements of the governing documents for such Plans.

          9.09.  Foreign Employee Benefit Plan Compliance??.  The
Borrower shall, and shall cause each of the Borrower's
Subsidiaries and ERISA Affiliates to, establish??, maintain and
operate all Foreign Employee Benefit Plans to comply in all
material respects with all laws, regulations and rules applicable
thereto and the respective requirements of the governing
documents for such Plans.

          9.10. ??Maintenance of Property.??  The Borrower shall,
and shall cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, maintain in
all material respects all of its respective owned and leased
Property in good, safe and insurable condition and repair, and
not permit, commit or suffer any waste or abandonment of any such
Property and from time to time shall make or cause to be made all
material repairs, renewal and replacements thereof, including,
without limitation, any capital improvements which may be
required; provided, however, that such Property may be altered or
renovated in the ordinary course of the Borrower's or such
Subsidiaries' business.

          9.11.  Condemnation.??  Immediately upon learning of
the institution of any proceeding for the condemnation or other
tak-ing of any of the owned or leased Real Property of the
Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower, the Borrower shall
notify the Collateral Agent of the pendency of such proceeding,
and permit the Collateral Agent to participate in any such
proceeding, and from time to time will deliver to the Collateral
Agent all instruments reasonably requested by the Collateral
Agent to permit such participation.

          9.12. Subsidiaries Acquired or Formed after the Closing
Date; Guarantors.  ??The Borrower shall cause each of its
Domestic Subsidiaries (and each Subsidiary which is a guarantor
of the Senior Subordinated Notes from time to time) to become a
Guarantor and the Borrower shall, and shall cause each such
Guarantor to, execute and deliver to the Collateral Agent such
Loan Documents, including, without limitation, as may be
applicable under the circumstances, guaranties, security
agreements, pledge agreements, and other agreements and
instruments related to the Capital Stock of such Subsidiaries and
Collateral owned by such Subsidiaries as the Collateral Agent
shall reasonably request concurrently with such Persons becoming
Domestic Subsidiaries and/or Guarantors. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, nothing in this Section 9.12 shall permit the Borrower
or any Subsidiary of the Borrower to form any Domestic Subsidiary
or make any Investment, directly or indirectly, not otherwise
permitted by Section 10.04.

          9.13.  Performance of Material Contracts.  ??The
Borrower shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to,
perform and observe all the terms and provisions of each material
Contractual Obligation to be performed or observed by it,
maintain each such material Contractual Obligation in full force
and effect, enforce each such material Contractual Obligation in
accordance with its terms, take all such action to such end as
may be from time to time requested by the Collateral Agent and,
upon request of the Collateral Agent, make to each other party to
each such material Contractual Obligation such demands and
requests for information and reports or for action as such
Borrower or Subsidiary is entitled to make under such material
Contractual Obligation.

          9.14.  Further Assurances.??  The Borrower shall, and
shall cause each Guarantor to, execute and deliver to the
Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Holders, such other
agreements, documents, and instruments which the Collateral Agent
deems necessary or desirable, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Collateral Agent, to enable the Collateral Agent to
perfect, or maintain perfected, Liens in the Collateral
(including, without limitation, Capital Stock acquired after the
Closing Date and held in accounts with securities
intermediaries), and all Cash Equivalents of the Borrower and the
Guarantors (other than those in Deposit Accounts not subject to
Collection Account Agreement pursuant to Section 10.14) and
marketable Securities.

          9.15.  Use of Proceeds of the Term Loans and the Senior
Notes. ?? The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Term Loans
and the net cash proceeds of the Senior Subordinated Notes to pay
or provide for the payment, on the Closing Date, of the
Refinanced Indebtedness outstanding as of the Closing Date and
the cash purchase price owing under the Kaynar Purchase
Agreement.

          9.16.  Required Hedge Agreements.??  From and after the
Closing Date, the Borrower shall maintain in effect or enter into
Hedge Agreements on terms reasonably satisfactory to the
Administrative Agents and maintain the same in effect, for
interest rate protection with respect to the Obligations which
shall be purchased from a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or,
subject to the prior approval of the Requisite Lenders (which
approval shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld), any
other Person, for such notional amount as may be required to
ensure that floating rate pricing (after giving effect to Hedge
Agreements, including, without limitation, cap agreements) shall
be effective for no more than fifty percent (50%) of Consolidated
Total Debt.

          9.17.  Year 2000.??  The Borrower covenants and agrees
that the computer systems and equipment of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries containing embedded microchips (including systems
and equipment supplied by others, with which such systems
interface or on which such Persons rely) will function in a
manner on and after December 31, 1999 to ensure that their
business operations will not be interrupted to any material
extent and that the Borrower is taking and will continue to take
all necessary and appropriate action to reasonably ensure the
same.
                           ARTICLE X
                      NEGATIVE COVENANTS??

          The Borrower covenants and agrees, as applicable, that,
so long as any Revolving Credit Commitments are out-standing and
thereafter until payment in full of all of the Obligations (other
than indemnities not yet due), unless the Requisite Lenders shall
other-wise give prior written consent:


          10.01.  Indebtedness.??  The Borrower shall not and
shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to directly or
indirectly create, incur, assume or otherwise become or remain
directly or indirectly liable with respect to any Indebtedness,
except:

          (a)  the Obligations and the Indebtedness
     evidenced by the Senior Subordinated Notes and
     guarantees thereof;

          (b)  unsecured Indebtedness for trade payables,
     wages and other accrued expenses incurred in the
     ordinary course of business and recourse obligations
     result-ing from endorse-ment of negotiable instruments
     for collection in the ordinary course of such Persons'
     business;

          (c)  Indebtedness arising from the following
     intercompany loans:

          (i) from the Borrower to any of its Subsidiaries which
          is a Guarantor or from any such Subsidiary to the
          Borrower or any other such Subsidiary,

          (ii) from the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the
          Borrower which is a Guarantor, directly or indirectly,
          to any Subsidiary of the Borrower which is not a
          Guarantor the aggregate principal amount outstanding
          with respect to which at any time after the Closing
          Date does not exceed $10,000,000,

          (iii) from the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the
          Borrower to Fairchild Europe - Simmonds S.A.R.L. in the
          principal amount of approximately $5,000,000 in
          connection with the acquisition by Fairchild Fasteners
          Europe -- Simmonds S.A.R.L. of the issued and
          outstanding Capital Stock of Technico, a French stock
          corporation (Societe Anonyme), and SCI de la Praz, a
          French real estate company (Societe Civile
          Immobiliere),

          (iv) from any Subsidiary of the Borrower which is not a
          Guarantor to any other Subsidiary of the Borrower which
          is not a Guarantor, and

          (v) from any Subsidiary of the Borrower which is not a
          Guarantor to the Borrower or a Guarantor; provided that
          (A) at the time of making any such intercompany loan
          there are no outstanding intercompany loans owing by
          such Subsidiary to the Borrower or such Guarantor and
          such intercompany loans to the Borrower or a Guarantor
          are in amounts and on terms (including, without
          limitation, terms of subordination to the Obligations)
          satisfactory to the Collateral Agent and evidenced by a
          promissory note in form and substance satisfactory to
          the Collateral Agent and (B) the aggregate principal
          amount of such intercompany loans made from and after
          the Closing Date outstanding at any given time does not
          exceed $10,000,000;

          (d) Indebtedness in respect of Hedge Agreements in
     respect of interest rates or foreign exchange contracts
     so long as such Hedge Agreements are not entered into
     for speculative purposes;

          (e)  Indebtedness with respect to reasonable
     warranties and indemnities made under any agreements
     for asset sales permitted under Section 10.02 and
     Contractual Obligations of the Borrower or any
     Subsidiary of the Borrower entered into in the ordinary
     course of its business;

          (f)  Indebtedness of the owner(s) of the
     Farmingdale Property incurred in connection with the
     development and operation of the Farmingdale Property;
     provided that (i) such Indebtedness is subject to
     agreements in form and substance satisfactory to the
     Collateral Agent and (ii) if the holders of such
     Indebtedness require that any Accommodation Obligation
     be incurred in connection therewith for their benefit
     by the Borrower or any Guarantor, such agreements are
     executed and delivered on or before October 3, 1999;

          (g)  Indebtedness incurred by the Unrestricted
     Subsidiaries without recourse to the Borrower or any
     Restricted Subsidiary or any Property of the Borrower or any
     Restricted Subsidiary; and

          (h)  Permitted Existing Indebtedness and any
     extensions, renewals, refundings or replacements
     thereof, provided that any such extension, renewal,
     refunding or replacement is in an aggregate principal
     amount not greater than the principal amount of, and is
     on terms no less favorable to the Borrower or the
     applicable Subsidiary than the terms of, the Permitted
     Existing Indebtedness so extended, renewed, refunded or
     replaced; and

          (i)  other secured (to the extent permitted by
     Section 10.03) and unsecured Indebtedness of the
     Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount
     not to exceed $30,000,000 at any time outstanding, to
     the extent permitted by Article XI, where applicable,
     provided that:

          (i) with respect to Indebtedness of the Borrower and
          the Borrower's Subsidiaries with respect to Capital
          Leases and purchase money Indebtedness, prior to
          incurring Capital Lease obligations owing to any one
          lessor or group of affiliated or related lessors or
          purchase money Indebtedness owing to any one holder or
          group of affiliated or related holders thereof, which
          in either case aggregate(s) more than $5,000,000, the
          Borrower shall obtain, or cause such Subsidiary to
          obtain, from such lessor(s) or holder(s) a duly
          executed intercreditor agreement in form and substance
          reasonably satisfactory to the Collateral Agent, and

          (ii) with respect to Indebtedness constituting
          Accommodation Obligations, in the event the primary
          Indebtedness supported by such Accommodation Obligation
          is otherwise included in the calculation of permitted
          Indebtedness under this Section 10.01, such primary
          Indebtedness and Accommodation Obligation shall not be
          included twice in determining compliance with this
          Section 10.01.

          10.02.  Sales of Assets.??  The Borrower shall not and
shall not permit any of the Restricted Subsidiaries to sell,
assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of any
Property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired by such Person,
or any income or profits there-from, or enter into any agreement
to do so, except:

          (a)  any sale, lease, transfer or other
     disposition of Permitted Dispositions, so long as (i)
     any non-cash consideration resulting from such sale,
     assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other
     disposition is permitted under Section 10.04(i) and
     pledged or assigned to the Collateral Agent, for the
     benefit of the Holders, pursuant to an instrument in
     form and substance acceptable to the Collateral Agent,
     (ii) the Borrower com-plies with the mandatory
     prepayment provisions set forth in Section 4.01(b) and
     the conditions to the release of Collateral described
     in Section 13.09(c), and (iii) with respect to a
     transfer of the Capital Stock or assets of any
     Technologies Company, Capital Stock of Nacanco, the
     Farmingdale Property, and/or the other real estate
     assets identified as being held for sale on Schedule
     1.01.5 by dividend or distribution to the shareholders
     of the Borrower, the same is permitted under Section
     10.05;

          (b)  the transfer of (i) the Capital Stock or assets of
     Fairchild Technologies Optical Disc Equipment Group GmbH to
     a new indirect Subsidiary of the Borrower formed under the
     laws of The Republic of Germany in accordance with the terms
     of this Agreement and subsequent sale or other transfer of
     such new Subsidiary or its assets to Fairchild Technologies
     USA, Inc. and (ii) provided that the Collateral Agent has
     consented in writing thereto, any sale or other transfer of
     any other Property owned by the Borrower or any Subsidiary
     of the Borrower to any Subsidiary of the Borrower;

          (c)  any sale of Inventory in the ordinary course of
     the Borrower's and its Subsidiaries' respective businesses;

          (d)  any disposition of Equipment if such
     Equipment is traded in for credit against the purchase
     price of replacement Equipment or the proceeds of such
     disposition are reasonably promptly applied to the
     purchase price of such replacement Equipment, is
     obsolete, or is no longer useful in the ordinary course
     of the Borrower's or its Subsidiaries' respective
     businesses;

          (e)  the sale of Investments in Cash Equivalents
     permitted pursuant to Section 10.04(c)(i) and Eligible
     Marketable Securities permitted pursuant to Section
     10.04(c)(ii);

          (f) any sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance
     or other disposition of any Property having a Fair Market
     Value, in the case of an individual asset sale, assignment,
     transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition, not
     exceeding $1,000,000 or, in the case of aggregate asset
     sales, assignments, transfers, leases, conveyances and other
     dispositions in any Fiscal Year, not exceeding $5,000,000,
     for consideration not less than the Fair Market Value
     thereof, so long as (i) any non-cash consideration resulting
     from such sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or
     other disposition shall be pledged or assigned to the
     Collateral Agent, for the benefit of the Holders, pursuant
     to an instrument in form and substance acceptable to the
     Collateral Agent and (ii) the Borrower com-plies with the
     mandatory prepayment provisions set forth in Section 4.01(b)
     and the conditions to the release of Collateral described in
     Section 13.09(c);

          (g) the sale of Receivables of Restricted Subsidiaries
     which are not Domestic Subsidiaries pursuant to arrangements
     (i) described on Schedule 10.02-G attached hereto and made a
     part hereof which are in effect as of the Closing Date or
     (ii) entered into after the Closing Date and  disclosed in
     writing to the Collateral Agent prior to their becoming
     effective, in either event for the purpose of providing
     working capital for such Restricted Subsidiaries and their
     Affiliates which are not Domestic Subsidiaries;

          (h) the transfer of Indebtedness arising under
     intercompany loans outstanding or made to or by the Borrower
     and Restricted Subsidiaries as permitted by Section 10.01 to
     the Borrower or a Restricted Subsidiary in exchange for a
     promissory note payable to the transferor in the amount of
     such Indebtedness so transferred; and

          (i) any transfer required to consummate any transaction
     otherwise permitted under Sections 10.04, 10.05, 10.06,
     10.08, and 10.09.

Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary,
neither the Borrower nor any Restricted Subsidiary shall sell,
assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of any
Property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired by such Person,
or any income or profits there-from, to any Unrestricted
Subsidiary, or enter into any agreement to do so.

          10.03.  Liens.  ??The Borrower shall not and shall not
permit any of the Borrower's Subsidiaries to directly or
indirectly create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien or
negative pledge on or with respect to any of their respective
Property or assets except:

          (a)  Liens created pursuant to the Loan Documents;

          (b)  Permitted Existing Liens;

          (c)  Customary Permitted Liens;

          (d)  Liens arising due to the creation of escrows of
     proceeds from any sale, assignment, lease, transfer or other
     disposition permitted under Section 10.02;

          (e)  Liens securing purchase money Indebtedness
     (including the interest of a lessor under a Capital Lease or
     an Operating Lease having substantially the same economic
     effect) permitted under Section 10.01(i); provided, that
     such Liens do not attach to any property other than that
     purchased with the proceeds of such purchase money
     Indebtedness (or leased); and

          (f)  Liens granted to secure Indebtedness permitted
     under Section 10.01(f) against (i) the Farmingdale Property
     and improvements made thereto, (ii) all fixtures,
     furnishings, Equipment and other personal property used in
     connection with the Farmingdale Property and such
     improvements, (iii) all leases, subleases, licenses,
     concession agreements, contracts, and managerial agreements,
     entered into with respect thereto and permits affecting the
     Farmingdale Property and improvements made thereto; and
     Liens granted by Unrestricted Subsidiaries to secure other
     Indebtedness permitted by Section 10.01(g).

          10.04.  Investments.??  The Borrower shall not and
shall not permit any of the Restricted Subsidiaries to directly
or indirectly make or own any Invest-ment except:

          (a)  Permitted Existing Investments, in each case
     increased or decreased as required under GAAP as a result of
     annual adjustments made to Investments accounted for under
     the equity method, and additional Investments required to be
     made pursuant to the terms of the Permitted Existing
     Investments as disclosed on Schedule 1.01.8;

          (b)  Investments received in connection with the
     bankruptcy or reorganization of suppliers and customers
     and in settlement or composition of delinquent
     obligations of, and other disputes with, customers and
     suppliers arising in the ordinary course of business;

          (c)  Investments (i) in Cash Equivalents and (ii) by
     the Borrower in Eligible Marketable Securities; provided
     that with respect to clause (ii) proceeds of the Loans are
     not used to make Investments in Margin Stock and no
     Revolving Loans are outstanding on the date any such
     Investment is made;

          (d)  Investments made by the Borrower and
     Restricted Subsidiaries in connection with acquisitions
     of assets or equity Securities of any Person (other
     than the Technologies Companies) in an aggregate amount
     not to exceed (i) $17,500,000 in cash or assumed
     Indebtedness until such time as the outstanding
     principal balance of the Term Loans has been reduced by
     $25,000,000 in the aggregate under Section 4.01(b)(vii)
     from Net Cash Proceeds of Sale of Permitted
     Dispositions and Net Cash Proceeds of Sale of Banner
     Companies or (ii) thereafter (and when combined with
     Investments made as permitted under the foregoing
     clause (i)), $35,000,000 in cash or assumed
     Indebtedness; provided that (A) no Event of Default or
     Potential Event of Default has occurred and is
     continuing unwaived or, after giving effect to the
     making of any such Investment, no Potential Event of
     Default or Event of Default would occur and (B) on a
     pro forma basis, determined for the four (4) Fiscal
     Quarters immediately preceding any such Investment
     giving effect to such Investment as though it occurred
     at the commencement of such four (4) Fiscal Quarter
     period, no breach of any covenant included in Article
     XI would have occurred; and provided further that the
     aforesaid limitations specified in clauses (i) and (ii)
     above shall (1) be increased by the amount of the Net
     Cash Proceeds of Sale of Permitted Dispositions (other
     than Net Cash Proceeds of Sale received in connection
     with the sale or other disposition of Capital Stock of
     Watkins-Johnson Company held by the Borrower or any
     Subsidiary of the Borrower) net of the amount of such
     Net Cash Proceeds of Sale of Permitted Dispositions
     applied to the Obligations as provided under Section
     4.01(b)(vii) and (2) include payments of cash made to
     Robert Edwards in accordance with the Third Amendment
     and Plan of Merger dated as of September 17, 1998 by
     and among the Borrower, Special-T Fasteners, Inc., and
     Robert Edwards, executed and delivered in connection
     with the Borrower's acquisition of Special-T Fasteners,
     Inc. and any related agreement entered into after the
     Closing Date, only to the extent the same exceed
     $2,000,000 in the aggregate;

          (e)  Investments by the Borrower in any other Person
     (other than the Technologies Companies) in exchange for
     Capital Stock of the Borrower; provided that (i) no Event of
     Default or Potential Event of Default has occurred and is
     continuing unwaived or, after giving effect to the making of
     any such Investment, no Potential Event of Default or Event
     of Default would occur and (ii) on a pro forma basis,
     determined for the four (4) Fiscal Quarters immediately
     preceding any such Investment giving effect to such
     Investment as though it occurred at the commencement of such
     four (4) Fiscal Quarter period, no breach of any covenant
     included in Article XI would have occurred;

          (f)  an Investment by the Borrower in the form of the
     contribution of Property which consists of (i) cash in an
     amount not to exceed $10,000,000 in the aggregate and (ii)
     Permitted Dispositions in connection with the Borrower's
     formation of a Restricted Subsidiary to qualify as a small
     business investment company, as such is defined in the Small
     Business Investment Act of 1958, P.L. 85-699, as amended,
     which small business investment company shall be deemed to
     be an Unrestricted Subsidiary at all times from and after
     its formation;

          (g)  an Investment by capital contribution of the
     Capital Stock of Kaynar, directly or indirectly, to FHC and
     of the Capital Stock of Special-T Fasteners, Inc., directly
     or indirectly, to another Person included in the Fairchild
     Fasteners Group Operating Unit;

          (h)  Investments by the Borrower, directly or through
     intervening Restricted Subsidiaries, in Subsidiaries of the
     Borrower which are Guarantors; and

          (i)  Investments received in connection with the sale,
     transfer, disposition (including, without limitation, by
     merger) of Permitted Dispositions (other than the Banner
     Companies).

Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary,
neither the Borrower nor any Restricted Subsidiary of the
Borrower shall make any Investment in an Unrestricted Subsidiary
and no Unrestricted Subsidiary shall make or own any Investment
in the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary. In no event shall
the Borrower or any of the Restricted Subsidiaries form, create
or establish any additional Subsidiaries or become a partner
(general or limited) in any Person, without the prior written
consent of the Collateral Agent. No other provision of this
Agreement shall be deemed to prohibit any Investment which is
specifically permitted by this Section 10.04.

          10.05. ??Restricted Junior Payments.??  The Borrower
shall not and shall not permit any of the Restricted Subsidiaries
to declare or make any Restricted Junior Payment, except:

          (a)  subject to the limitations set forth in
     Section 10.06 where applicable, dividends or
     distributions to the Borrower on the Capital Stock of
     any of its Wholly-Owned Subsid-iaries or to any of the
     Borrower's Wholly-Owned Subsid-iaries from any other
     Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of such Borrower or any
     Subsidiary of the Borrower existing on the date of this
     Agreement;

          (b)  cash dividends or distributions on the Capital
     Stock of the Borrower which is Class A Common Stock not to
     exceed the lesser of (i) one cent ($0.01) per share of such
     Class A Common Stock or (ii) $400,000 in the aggregate;

          (c) cancellations of intercompany Indebtedness
     which are treated as dividends; and

          (d)  dividends and distributions of the Capital Stock
     of the Technologies Companies, or any of them, Capital Stock
     of Nacanco, the Farmingdale Property or Capital Stock of the
     owner thereof, and/or the other real estate assets
     identified as being held for sale on Schedule 1.01.5 to
     shareholders of the Borrower; provided that (i) no Event of
     Default or Potential Event of Default has occurred and is
     continuing unwaived or, after giving effect to any such
     dividend or distribution, no Potential Event of Default or
     Event of Default would occur and (ii) on a pro forma basis,
     determined for the four (4) Fiscal Quarters immediately
     preceding any such dividend or distribution giving effect to
     such dividend or distribution as though it occurred at the
     commencement of such four (4) Fiscal Quarter period, no
     breach of any covenant included in Article XI would have
     occurred and, with respect to dividends and distributions of
     Capital Stock of Nacanco and the Farmingdale Property or
     Capital Stock of the owner thereof, provided further that
     prior to any such dividend or distribution the outstanding
     principal balance of the Term Loans shall have been reduced
     by $37,500,000 in the aggregate under Section 4.01(b)(vii)
     from Net Cash Proceeds of Sale of Permitted Dispositions and
     Net Cash Proceeds of Sale of Banner Companies.

          10.06.  Restriction on Fundamental Changes.??  The
Borrower shall not and shall not permit any of the Borrower's
Subsidiaries to (a) enter into any merger or consolidation, or
liquidate, wind-up or dissolve (or suffer any liquidation or
dissolution), except:

          (i) the liquidation or dissolution of Fairchild
     Fastener Group Ltd. and JJS Limited on or before June 30,
     2000;

          (ii)  the merger or liquidation of (A) any Restricted
     Subsidiary with and into the Borrower or any Guarantor;
     provided that such Persons are part of the same Operating
     Unit both before and after such merger or liquidation, (B)
     any Guarantor with and into any other Guarantor; provided
     that such Persons are part of the same Operating Unit both
     before and after such merger or liquidation, (C) any
     Restricted Subsidiary which is not included as part of an
     Operating Unit with and into any other such Person, and (D)
     any Subsidiary of the Borrower not described in clauses (A),
     (B), or (C) above with and into any other such Subsidiary of
     the Borrower; provided that the prior written consent
     thereto of the Collateral Agent has been obtained; and

          (iii)  the merger of Special-T Fasteners, Inc. with and
     into FHC or another Person included in the Fairchild
     Fasteners Group Operating Unit and the merger of Kaynar with
     and into FHC; or

(b) convey, lease, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of, in one
transaction or series of trans-actions, all or substantially all
of such Person's business or Property, whether now or here-after
acquired, except as permitted by Section 10.02; or (c) except to
the extent consented to in writing by the Administrative Agents,
discontinue the operations of any Subsidiary of the Borrower.

          10.07.  Conduct of Business; Accounting and Reporting
Practices.??  The Borrower shall not and shall not permit any of
the Borrower's Subsidiaries (a) other than Unrestricted
Subsidiaries, to engage in any business other than (i) the
businesses engaged in by the Borrower and the Borrower's
Subsidiaries on the Closing Date and (ii) any business or
activities which are sub-stantially similar, related or
incidental thereto, or (b) change any of its or their accounting
or financial reporting policies or practices from those in effect
on the Closing Date, except to the extent required to provide the
financial reporting described in Section 8.01(a).

          10.08.  Transactions with Shareholders and
Affiliates.??  The Borrower shall not and shall not permit any of
the Borrower's Subsidiaries to directly or indirectly enter into
or permit to exist any trans-action (includ-ing, without
limitation, the sale, lease, exchange or transfer of any property
(other than as permitted by Section 10.02) or the rendering of
any service) or the purchase of any property (other than as
permitted by Section 10.04, where applicable) with any Affiliate
on terms that are less favorable to the Borrower or such
Subsidiaries, as applicable, than those that might be obtained in
an arm's length transac-tion at the time from Persons who are not
an Affil-iate.  Nothing contained in this Section 10.08 shall
prohibit (a) any trans-action expressly permitted by Sections
10.05 and 10.06; (b) increases in compensation and benefits for,
or payment of bonuses to, officers and employees of the Borrower
or any of the Borrower's Subsidiaries which are customary in the
industry or consistent with the past business practice of the
Borrower or such Subsidiary, provided that no Event of Default or
Potential Event of Default has occurred and is continuing; (c)
payment of customary direc-tors' fees and indemni-ties of
officers and directors; or (d) any transaction between a (i)
Technologies Company and an Affiliate which is also a
Technologies Company or (ii) one Unrestricted Subsidiary with
another Unrestricted Subsidiary (other than transactions between
any Technologies Company and an Unrestricted Subsidiary).

          10.09. ?? Sales and Leasebacks.?? The Borrower shall
not and shall not permit any of the Restricted Subsidiaries to
become liable, directly, by assump-tion or by Accommodation
Obligation, with respect to any lease, whether an Operating Lease
or a Capital Lease, of any Property (whether real or personal or
mixed) which such Person (a) sold or transferred or is to sell or
transfer to any other Person, or (b) intends to use for
substantially the same purposes as any other Property which has
been or is to be sold or trans-ferred by such Person to any other
Person, in either instance, in connection with such lease, except
for the sale/leaseback transactions identified on Schedule 10.09.

          10.10.  Margin Regulations; Securities Laws.??  The
Borrower shall not or permit any of the Borrower's Subsidiaries
to use all or any por-tion of the proceeds of any credit extended
under this Agree-ment to purchase or carry Margin Stock or for
purposes other than those described in Section 2.04.

          10.11.  ERISA.??  The Borrower shall not:

          (a)  engage, or permit any of the Borrower's
     Subsidiaries to engage, in any prohibited transaction
     described in Sections 406 of ERISA or 4975 of the
     Internal Revenue Code for which a statutory or class
     exemption is not available or a private exemption has
     not been pre-viously obtained from the DOL;

          (b)  permit to exist any accumulated funding
     deficiency (as defined in Sections 302 of ERISA and 412
     of the Internal Revenue Code), with respect to any
     Benefit Plan, whether or not waived;

          (c)  fail, or permit any ERISA Affiliate to fail,
     to pay timely required contributions or annual install-
     ments due with respect to any waived funding deficiency
     to any Benefit Plan;

          (d)  terminate, or permit any ERISA Affiliate to
     terminate, any Benefit Plan which would result in any
     liability of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate under
     Title IV of ERISA;

          (e)  fail to make any contribution or payment to
     any Multiemployer Plan which the Borrower or any ERISA
     Affiliate may be required to make under any agreement
     relating to such Multiemployer Plan, or any law per-
     taining thereto;

          (f)  fail, or permit any ERISA Affiliate to fail,
     to pay any required installment or any other payment
     required under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code
     on or before the due date for such installment or other
     payment;

          (g)  amend, or permit any ERISA Affiliate to
     amend, a Benefit Plan resulting in an increase in
     current lia-bility for the plan year such that the
     Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is required to provide
     security to such Plan under Section 401(a)(29) of the
     Internal Revenue Code;

          (h)  permit any unfunded liabilities with respect
     to any Foreign Pension Plan; or

          (i)  fail, or permit any of its Subsidiaries or
     ERISA Affiliates to fail, to pay any required
     contributions or payments to a Foreign Pension Plan on
     or before the due date for such required installment or
     payment

if such event results, either singly or in the aggregate, after
taking into account all other such events and any liabilities
associated therewith, in an aggregate liability in excess of
$2,000,000.

          10.12.  Issuance of Equity Securities.  ??The Borrower
shall not, and shall not permit any of the Restricted
Subsidiaries to, issue any equity Securities except (a) equity
Securities pursuant to Permitted Equity Securities Options, (b)
in exchange for Investments as permitted by Section 10.04(e), and
(c) equity Securities of the Borrower provided that the Borrower
complies with the mandatory prepayment provisions set forth in
Section 4.01(b).

           10.13.  Organizational Documents; Material Contractual
Obligations.??  The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any
of the Restricted Subsidiaries to, amend, modify or otherwise
change any of the terms or provisions in any of (a) their
respective Organizational Documents as in effect on the Closing
Date, except (i) with respect to which written notice shall have
been provided to the Collateral Agent (A) no less than ten (10)
days prior to the effective date of any such amendment,
modification or change made with respect to the Borrower or any
such Domestic Subsidiary and (B) concurrent with such amendment,
modification or change made with respect to any other Restricted
Subsidiary and (ii) if no Event of Default or Potential Event of
Default would result therefrom or (b) Contractual Obligations
evidencing any debt Securities, including, without limitation,
the Senior Subordinated Note Indenture or Senior Subordinated
Notes, or other material Contractual Obligations.

          10.14.  Bank Accounts.??  The Borrower shall not, and
shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, establish or
maintain any Deposit Account into which collections of
Receivables and proceeds of other Collateral are deposited other
than (a) those identified as existing on the Closing Date and
disclosed on Schedule 10.14 attached hereto or (b) which are
established after the Closing Date in the United States by the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries which are in amounts aggregating no
more than $5,000,000 at any given time are on deposit, without
the prior written consent of the Collateral Agent and which
(other than with respect to the accounts referenced in clause (b)
above), if collections of Receivables or proceeds of Collateral
are deposited therein, are subject to Collection Account
Agreements or other arrangements (including, without limitation,
pledge agreements) satisfactory to the Collateral Agent.

          10.15.  Fiscal Year; Fiscal Quarters.??  The Borrower
shall not and shall not permit any of the Borrower's Subsidiaries
(other than Banner, Kaynar, SNEP S.A., and any Person acquired in
compliance with the provisions of Section 10.04 after the Closing
Date which thereupon becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower;
provided that all such Subsidiaries shall have changed their
fiscal quarters and fiscal years to coincide with the Fiscal
Quarters and Fiscal Years by the last day of the first full
Fiscal Year next succeeding (a) the Closing Date (in the case of
Banner, Kaynar and SNEP S.A.) or (b) the Fiscal Year in which
such Person becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower) to maintain or
change its Fiscal Year for accounting or tax purposes from a
period consisting of the 12-month period ending on June 30 of
each calendar year or to change the ending dates for any Fiscal
Quarter.



                           ARTICLE XI
                      FINANCIAL COVENANTS
??
          The Borrower covenants and agrees that so long as any
Revolving Credit Commitments are outstanding and thereafter until
payment in full of all of the Obligations (other than indemnities
not yet due):

          11.01.  Interest Coverage Ratio.??  The Borrower and
its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis shall have, as of the
end of each Fiscal Quarter set forth below, for the four (4)
Fiscal Quarters then ending, an Interest Coverage Ratio of no
less than that set forth below opposite such period:

     Four Fiscal
     Quarters Ending                    Ratio

     June, 1999                         2.00 to 1.0
     and each Fiscal
     Quarter thereafter
     through March, 2004

     June, 2004                         2.25 to 1.0
     and each Fiscal
     Quarter thereafter
     through March, 2006


          11.02.  Capital Expenditures.??  The Borrower and its
Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis shall not make Capital
Expenditures in any Fiscal Year in excess of the greater of (a)
the Borrower's consolidated net income for the immediately
preceding Fiscal Year or (b) with respect to (i) the Borrower and
its Subsidiaries other than Kaynar for the Fiscal Year ending
June 30, 1999 and Kaynar and its Subsidiaries for the period
commencing on the Closing Date and ending on June 30, 1999
$40,000,000 in the aggregate and (ii) each Fiscal Year ending
after June 30, 1999, $40,000,000; provided, however, in the event
the Borrower  and its Subsidiaries have not made Capital
Expenditures in the amount permitted herein for any Fiscal Year,
Capital Expenditures in an amount equal to that portion of the
maximum amount of such Capital Expenditures permitted but not
made in such Fiscal Year (but not to exceed fifty percent (50%)
of such maximum amount) may be made in the immediately next
succeeding Fiscal Year in addition to any amounts permitted above
for such succeeding Fiscal Year; provided that (A) amounts
carried forward from one Fiscal Year to a succeeding Fiscal Year
may only be expended or accrued for Capital Expenditures after
the maximum amount permissible for such succeeding Fiscal Year
have been expended or accrued and (B) to the extent amounts
carried forward from one Fiscal Year to the next succeeding
Fiscal Year are not expended or accrued in such succeeding Fiscal
Year, such surplus may not be carried forward to any other
succeeding year.
          11.03.  Consolidated Senior Indebtedness to EBITDA
Ratio.??  The Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated
basis shall have, as of the end of each Fiscal Quarter set forth
below, a Consolidated Senior Indebtedness to EBITDA Ratio as of
the end of such Fiscal Quarter for the four (4) Fiscal Quarters
then ending of no more than the ratio set forth opposite such
Fiscal Quarter end set forth below:

Fiscal Quarter Ending         Maximum Ratio

June, 1999                    3.20 to 1.0
and each Fiscal Quarter
thereafter through
March, 2002

June, 2002                    3.00 to 1.0
and each Fiscal Quarter
thereafter

          11.04.  Consolidated Indebtedness to EBITDA Ratio.??
The Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis shall
have, as of the end of each Fiscal Quarter set forth below, a
Consolidated Indebtedness to EBITDA Ratio as of the end of such
Fiscal Quarter for the four (4) Fiscal Quarters then ending of no
more than the ratio set forth opposite such Fiscal Quarter end
set forth below:

Fiscal Quarter Ending         Maximum Ratio

June, 1999                    5.70 to 1.0
and each Fiscal Quarter
thereafter through
March, 2003

June, 2003                    5.50 to 1.0
and each Fiscal Quarter
thereafter through
March 2004

June, 2004                    4.75 to 1.0
and each Fiscal Quarter
thereafter

          11.05. ??Minimum Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage
Ratio. ?? The Borrower shall maintain, as determined as of the
end of each Fiscal Quarter set forth below for the four (4)
Fiscal Quarters then ending, a Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage
Ratio of no less than that set forth below opposite such Fiscal
Quarter end set forth below:

Fiscal Quarter Ending         Minimum Ratio

June, 1999                    1.25 to 1.0
and each Fiscal Quarter
thereafter through
March, 2003

June, 2003                    1.35 to 1.0
and each Fiscal Quarter
thereafter through
March, 2004

June, 2004                    1.50 to 1.0
and each Fiscal Quarter
thereafter

          11.06.  EBITDA Calculations.??

          (a) All calculations of EBITDA made with respect to
Sections 11.01 and 11.05 shall be made on a pro forma basis to
include earnings of Persons, which are operating companies and
were acquired during the period commencing on July 1, 1998 and
ending on the Closing Date and exclude earnings of Persons which
are operating companies sold, divested, or otherwise disposed of
during the period commencing on July 1, 1998 and ending on the
Closing Date during the four Fiscal Quarters then ended giving
effect to such acquisition, sale, divestiture or disposal as
though it had occurred on the first day of such four Fiscal
Quarter period.

          (b) All calculations of EBITDA made with respect to
Sections 11.03 and 11.04 shall be made on a pro forma basis to
include earnings of Persons, which are operating companies and
(i) were acquired during the period commencing on July 1, 1998
and ending on the Closing Date or (ii) are acquired after the
Closing Date as permitted by Section 10.04 and exclude earnings
of Persons which are operating companies sold, divested, or
otherwise disposed of (1) during the period commencing on July 1,
1998 and ending on the Closing Date or (ii) after the Closing
Date as permitted by this Agreement, during the four Fiscal
Quarters then ended giving effect to such acquisition, sale,
divestiture or disposal as though it had occurred on the first
day of such four Fiscal Quarter period.





                          ARTICLE XII
            EVENTS OF DEFAULT; RIGHTS AND REMEDIES??

          12.01.  Events of Default.??  Each of the following
occurrences shall constitute an Event of Default under this
Agreement:

          (a)  Failure to Make Payments When Due.  The Borrower
shall fail to pay (i) when due any principal of any Loan or any
Reimbursement Obligation for which it is obligated hereunder or
(ii) within one (1) Business Day after the due date therefor, any
other Obligation for which it is obligated.

          (b)  Breach of Certain Covenants.  The Borrower shall
fail duly and punctually to perform or observe any agree-ment,
covenant or obligation under Sections 9.01, 9.02, 9.03, 9.04,
9.06, 9.12, or 9.14, Article X or Article XI.

          (c)  Breach of Representation or Warranty.  Any repre-
sentation or warranty made or deemed made by the Borrower to the
Collateral Agent, any Lender or any Issu-ing Bank herein or by
the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower in any of the
other Loan Documents or in any statement or certificate at any
time given by any such Person pursuant to any of the Loan
Documents shall be false or mislead-ing in any material respect
on the date as of which made (or deemed made).

          (d)  Other Defaults.  The Borrower shall default in the
performance of or compliance with any term contained in this
Agreement (other than as identified in clauses (a), (b) or (c) of
this Section 12.01) applicable thereto or any default or event of
default shall occur under any of the other Loan Documents, and
such default or event of default shall continue for fifteen (15)
days after the occurrence thereof.

          (e)  Default as to Other Indebtedness.  The Borrower or
any Subsidiary of the Borrower shall fail to make any payment
when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment,
accelera-tion, demand or otherwise) with respect to any other
Indebtedness (other than an Obligation) of such Borrower and its
Subsidiaries aggregating $2,000,000 or more; or any breach,
default or event of default shall occur, or any other condition
shall exist under any instrument, agreement or indenture per-
taining to any such Indebtedness, if the effect thereof is to
cause an acceleration, mandatory redemption or other required
repurchase of such Indebtedness, or permit the holder(s) of such
Indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of any such Indebtedness
or require a redemption or other repurchase of such Indebtedness;
or any such Indebtedness shall be otherwise declared to be due
and payable (by acceleration or otherwise) or required to be
prepaid, redeemed or otherwise repurchased by such Borrower or
any of its Subsidiaries (other than by a regularly scheduled
required prepayment) prior to the stated maturity thereof.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the foregoing shall only apply
with respect to Indebtedness of Unrestricted Subsidiaries to the
extent the holder(s) of such Indebtedness (A) is/are the Borrower
or a Restricted Subsidiary or (B) have any recourse to the
Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary or any of their Property in
connection with such Indebtedness and (ii) no breach of any
obligation, default or event of default (payment or otherwise),
or acceleration of any obligation with respect to the German
Acquisition Loans shall constitute an Event of Default under this
Agreement.

          (f)  Involuntary Bankruptcy; Appointment of Receiver,
Etc. (i)  An involuntary case shall be commenced against the
Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower and the petition shall
not be (A) controverted within ten (10) days after the filing
thereof and (B) dismissed, stayed, bonded or discharged within
sixty (60) days after commencement of the case; or a court having
jurisdiction in the premises shall enter a decree or order for
relief in respect of the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the
Borrower in an invol-untary case, under any applicable
bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereinafter in
effect; or any other similar relief shall be granted under any
applicable federal, state, local or foreign law.

          (ii)  A decree or order of a court having juris-diction
in the premises for the appointment of a receiver, liquidator,
sequestrator, trustee, custodian or other officer having similar
powers over the Borrower or any Su-bsidiary of the Borrower or
over all or a substantial part of the Property of any such Person
shall be entered; or an interim receiver, trustee or other
custodian of the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower or of
all or a substan-tial part of the Property of any such Person
shall be appointed or a war-rant of attachment, execution or
similar process against any substantial part of the Property of
the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower shall be issued
and any such event shall not be stayed, dis-missed, bonded or
discharged within thirty (30) days after entry, appointment or
issuance.

          (iii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained herein, the foregoing shall only apply to an
Unrestricted Subsidiary if the Borrower or any Restricted
Subsidiary is, at the time of such commencement or decree, or
thereafter becomes, a creditor of such Unrestricted Subsidiary or
is or becomes subject to any action or proceeding in any such
case against or which could have an adverse impact upon the
assets or ability of the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary to
pay the Obligations in accordance with their terms (including,
without limiting the foregoing, any proceeding for substantive
consolidation or equitable subordination).

          (g)  Voluntary Bankruptcy; Appointment of Receiver,
Etc.  The Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower shall
commence a voluntary case under any applicable bankruptcy,
insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or
shall consent to the entry of an order for relief in an
involuntary case, or to the conversion of an involuntary case to
a voluntary case, under any such law, or shall consent to the
appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, trustee or
other custodian for all or a substantial part of its Property; or
any such Person shall make any assignment for the benefit of
credi-tors or shall be unable or fail, or admit in writing its
inability, to pay its debts as such debts become due; or the
board of directors (or equivalent) of any such Person (or any
committee thereof) adopts any resolution or otherwise authorizes
any action to approve any of the fore-going; provided, however,
that the foregoing shall only apply to an Unrestricted Subsidiary
if the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary is, at the time of
such commencement, consent, or assignment, or thereafter becomes,
a creditor of such Unrestricted Subsidiary or is or becomes
subject to any action or proceeding in any such case against or
which could have an adverse impact upon the assets or ability of
the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary to pay the Obligations
in accordance with their terms (including, without limiting the
foregoing, any proceeding for substantive consolidation or
equitable subordination).

          (h)  Dissolution.  Any order, judgment or decree shall
be entered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower
decreeing its involuntary dis-solution or split up and such order
shall remain undischarged and unstayed for a period in excess of
sixty (60) days; or any such Person shall otherwise dissolve, be
dissolved, or cease to exist except as specifically permitted by
this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained herein, the foregoing shall only apply to an
Unrestricted Subsidiary if the Borrower or any Restricted
Subsidiary is, at the time of such order, judgment, decree, or
dossolution, or thereafter becomes, a creditor of such
Unrestricted Subsidiary or is or becomes subject to any action or
proceeding in any such case against or which could have an
adverse impact upon the assets or ability of the Borrower or any
Restricted Subsidiary to pay the Obligations in accordance with
their terms (including, without limiting the foregoing, any
proceeding for substantive consolidation or equitable
subordination).

          (i)  Loan Documents; Failure of Security.  At any time,
for any reason, (i) any Loan Docu-ment ceases to be in full force
and effect (other than as terminated or released as permitted
therein or by Section 13.09) or the Borrower or Subsidiary of the
Borrower party thereto seeks to repudiate its obligations
thereunder or the Liens intended to be created thereby are, or
the Borrower or such Subsidiary seeks to render such Liens,
invalid or unperfected, or (ii) Liens in favor of the Collateral
Agent for the benefit of the Holders contemplated by the Loan
Documents shall, at any time, for any reason other than the gross
negligence or willful misconduct of the Collateral Agent or any
Lender, be invalidated or otherwise cease to be in full force and
effect, or such Liens shall be subordinated or shall not have the
priority contemplated by this Agreement or the Loan Documents,
except to the extent contemplated by the terms of Section 13.09
and Schedule 10.09.

          (j)  Judgments and Attachments.  Any money judgment
(other than a money judgment covered by insurance as to which the
insurance company has acknowledged coverage), writ or warrant of
attachment, or similar process against the Borrower or Subsidiary
of the Borrower or any of their respective assets involv-ing in
any case an amount in excess of $2,000,000 is entered and shall
remain undischarged, unvacated, unbonded or unstayed for a period
of thirty (30) days or in any event later than five (5) days
prior to the date of any proposed sale thereunder; provided,
however, if any such judgment, writ or warrant of attachment or
similar process is in excess of $12,000,000, the entry thereof
shall immediately constitute an Event of Default hereunder.

          (k)  Termination Event.  Any Termination Event occurs
which could reasonably be expected to subject the Borrower or any
ERISA Affiliate to liability in excess of $2,000,000, for which
adequate reserves are not maintained.

          (l)  Waiver Application.  The plan administrator of any
Benefit Plan applies under Section 412(d) of the Internal Revenue
Code for a waiver of the minimum funding standards of Section
412(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and the Collateral Agent
believes that the substantial business hardship upon which the
application for the waiver is based could subject the Borrower or
any ERISA Affiliate to liability in excess of $2,000,000, for
which adequate reserves are not maintained.

          (m)  Change in Control.  A Change of Control shall
occur.

          (n)  Material Adverse Effect.  An event shall occur
which results in a Material Adverse Effect.

          An Event of Default shall be deemed "continuing" until
cured or waived in writing in accordance with Section 15.07.

          12.02.  Rights and Remedies.??

          (a)  Acceleration and Termination.  Upon the occurrence
of any Event of Default described in Sections 12.01(f) or
12.01(g), the Lenders' respective obligations to make Loans under
the Revolving Credit Commitments shall automatically and
immediately terminate and the unpaid principal amount of, and any
and all accrued interest on, the Obligations and all accrued fees
shall automatically become imme-diately due and payable, without
presentment, demand, or protest or other requirements of any kind
(including, without limitation, valua-tion and appraisement,
diligence, pre-sentment, notice of intent to demand or accelerate
and of accel-eration), all of which are hereby expressly waived
by the Borrower; and upon the occurrence and during the
continuance of any other Event of Default, the Collateral Agent
shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Requisite
Lenders, by written notice to the Borrower, (i) declare that the
Lenders' respective obligations to make Revolving Loans under the
Revolving Credit Commitments are terminated, whereupon such
obligation of each such Lender to make any Loan hereunder and of
each such Lender or Issuing Bank to issue or participate in any
Letter of Credit not then issued shall immediately terminate,
and/or (ii) declare the unpaid principal amount of and any and
all accrued and unpaid interest on the Obliga-tions to be, and
the same shall thereupon be, immediately due and payable, without
presentment, demand, or protest or other requirements of any kind
(including, without limitation, valua-tion and appraisement,
diligence, presentment, notice of intent to demand or accelerate
and of acceleration), all of which are hereby expressly waived by
the Borrower.

          (b)  Deposit for Letters of Credit.  In addi-tion,
after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of
Default, the Borrower shall, promptly upon demand by the
Collateral Agent, deliver to the Collateral Agent, Cash
Collateral in such form as requested by the Collateral Agent for
deposit in the Cash Collateral Account, together with such
endorsements, and execution and delivery of such documents and
instruments, as the Collateral Agent may request in order to
perfect or protect the Collateral Agent's Lien with respect
thereto, in the applicable amount described in Section
3.01(a)(iv).

          (c)  Rescission.  If at any time after termination of
the Lenders' obligations to make Revolving Loans under the
Revolving Credit Commitments and/or acceleration of the maturity
of the Loans, the Borrower shall pay all arrears of interest and
all payments on account of principal of the Loans and
Reimbursement Obligations which shall have become due other-wise
than by acceleration (with interest on principal and, to the
extent permitted by law, on overdue interest, at the rates speci-
fied in this Agreement) and all Events of Default and Potential
Events of Default (other than nonpayment of principal of and
accrued interest on the Loans due and payable solely by virtue of
acceleration) shall be remedied or waived pursuant to Section
15.07, then upon the written consent of the Requisite Lenders and
written notice to the Borrower, the termination of the Lenders'
respective obligations to make Revolving Loans under the
Revolving Credit Commitments and the respective Lenders' and
Issuing Banks' obligations to participate in or issue Letters of
Credit and/or the aforesaid acceleration and its conse-quences
may be rescinded and annulled; but such action shall not affect
any subsequent Event of Default or Potential Event of Default or
impair any right or remedy consequent thereon.  The provisions of
the preceding sentence are intended merely to bind the Lenders
and the Issuing Banks to a decision which may be made at the
election of the Requisite Lenders; they are not intended to
benefit the Borrower and do not give the Borrower the right to
require the Lenders to rescind or annul any termination of the
aforesaid obligations of the Lenders or Issuing Banks or any
acceleration here-under, even if the condi-tions set forth herein
are met.

          (d)  Enforcement.  The Borrower acknowledges that in
the event the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower fails to
perform, observe or discharge any of their respective obligations
or liabilities under this Agreement or any other Loan Document,
any remedy of law may prove to be inadequate relief to the
Collateral Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders; therefore,
the Borrower agrees that the Collateral Agent, the Issuing Banks
and the Lenders shall be entitled to temporary and permanent
injunctive relief in any such case without the necessity of
proving actual damages.



                          ARTICLE XIII
        THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENTS AND COLLATERAL AGENT??

          13.01.  Appointment.??  (a)  Each Lender and each
Issuing Bank hereby designates and appoints (i) Citicorp and
NationsBank as the Administrative Agents of such Lender or such
Issuing Bank under this Agreement and (ii) Citicorp as the
Collateral Agent of such Lender or such Issuing Bank under this
Agreement; and each Lender and each Issuing Bank hereby irre-
vocably authorizes the Collateral Agent to take such action on
its behalf under the provisions of this Agreement and the Loan
Docu-ments and to exercise such powers as are set forth herein or
therein together with such other powers as are reasonably
incidental thereto. The Collateral Agent hereby agrees to act in
the aforesaid capacities on the express conditions contained in
this Article XIII.

          (b)  The provisions of this Article XIII are solely for
the benefit of the Administrative Agents, the Collateral Agent,
the Lenders and Issuing Banks, and neither the Borrower nor any
Subsidiary of the Borrower shall have any rights to rely on or
enforce any of the provisions hereof (other than as expressly set
forth in Section 13.07).  In per-forming its functions and duties
under this Agreement, the Collateral Agent shall act solely as
Collateral Agent of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks and does
not assume and shall not be deemed to have assumed any obligation
or relationship of agency, trustee or fiduciary with or for the
Borrower or any Affiliate of the Borrower.  The Collateral Agent
may perform any of its respective duties hereunder, or under the
other Loan Documents, by or through its agents or employees.

          13.02.  Nature of Duties.  ??The Administrative Agents
shall not have any duties or responsibilities other than those
expressly set forth in this Agreement or in the Loan Documents.
The Collateral Agent shall not have any duties or
responsibilities other than those expressly set forth in this
Agreement or in the Loan Documents.  The duties of the Collateral
Agent shall be mechanical and administrative in nature.  Neither
shall either Administrative Agent or the Collateral Agent have,
by reason of this Agreement, any fiduciary relation-ship in
respect of any Holder.  Nothing in this Agreement or any of the
Loan Documents, expressed or implied, is intended to or shall be
construed to impose upon the Administrative Agents or the
Collateral Agent any obligations in respect of this Agreement or
any of the other Loan Documents other than as expressly set forth
herein or therein.  Each Lender and each Issuing Bank shall make
its own independent investigation of the financial condition and
affairs of the Borrower and their Affiliates in connection with
the making and the con-tinuance of the Loans hereunder and with
the issuance of the Letters of Credit and shall make its own
appraisal of the creditworthiness of the Borrower and Guarantors
initially and on a continuing basis, and no Administrative Agent
or Collateral Agent shall have any duty or responsibility, either
initially or on a continuing basis, to provide any Holder with
any credit or other information with respect thereto (except for
reports required to be delivered by the Collateral Agent under
the terms of this Agreement).  If the Collateral Agent seeks the
consent or approval of the Lenders to the taking or refraining
from taking of any action hereunder, the Collateral Agent shall
send notice thereof to each Lender.  The Collateral Agent shall
promptly notify each Lender at any time that the Lenders so
required hereunder have instructed the Collateral Agent to act or
refrain from acting pursuant hereto. As to any matters not
expressly provided for by this Agreement (including, without
limitation, enforcement or collection of the Notes or any amount
payable under any provision of Article IV or Article V when due)
or the other Loan Documents, the Collateral Agent shall not be
required to exercise any discretion or take any action.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Collateral Agent shall be
required to act or refrain from acting (and shall be fully
protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the
instructions of the Requisite Lenders (unless the instructions or
consent of all of the Lenders is required hereunder or
thereunder) and such instructions shall be binding upon all
Lenders, Issuing Banks and Holders; provided, however, the
Collateral Agent shall not be required to take any action which
(i) the Collateral Agent reasonably believes will expose it to
personal liability unless the Collateral Agent receives an
indemnification satisfactory to it from the Lenders with respect
to such action or (ii) is contrary to this Agreement, the other
Loan Documents or applicable law.

          13.03.  Rights, Exculpation, Etc.??  (a)  Liabilities;
Responsibilities.  None of the Administrative Agents, the
Collateral Agent, any Affiliate of an Administrative Agent or the
Collateral Agent, or any of their respective officers, directors,
employees or agents shall be liable to any Holder for any action
taken or omitted by them hereunder or under any of the Loan
Documents, or in connection therewith, except that no Person
shall be relieved of any liability imposed by law for gross
negligence or willful misconduct.  The Collateral Agent shall not
be liable for any apportionment or distri-bution of payments made
by it in good faith pursuant to Section 4.02(b), and, if any such
appor-tionment or distribution is subse-quently determined to
have been made in error, the sole recourse of any Holder to whom
payment was due, but not made, shall be to recover from other
Holders any payment in excess of the amount to which they are
determined to have been entitled.  Neither the Administrative
Agents nor the Collateral Agent shall be responsible to any
Holder for any recitals, statements, represen-tations or
warranties herein or for the execution, effectiveness,
genuineness, valid-ity, legality, enforce-ability,
collectibility, or suffic-iency of this Agreement or any of the
other Loan Documents or the transac-tions contemplated thereby,
or for the financial condition of the Borrower or any of its
Affiliates or the Guarantors.  The Collateral Agent shall not be
required to make any inquiry con-cerning either the performance
or observance of any of the terms, provisions or conditions of
this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, or the
financial condition of the Borrower or any of its Affiliates or
the Guarantors, or the existence or possible existence of any
Potential Event of Default or Event of Default.

          (b)  Right to Request Instructions.  The Collateral
Agent may at any time request instructions from the Lenders with
respect to any actions or approvals which by the terms of any of
the Loan Documents the Collateral Agent is per-mitted or required
to take or to grant, and shall be absolutely entitled to refrain
from taking any action or to with-hold any approval and shall not
be under any liability whatsoever to any Person for refraining
from any action or with-holding any approval under any of the
Loan Documents until it shall have received such instructions
from those Lenders from whom the Collateral Agent is required to
obtain such instructions for the pertinent matter in accordance
with the Loan Documents.  Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, no Holder shall have any right of action whatsoever
against the Collateral Agent as a result of its acting or
refraining from acting under the Loan Documents in accordance
with the instructions of the Requisite Lenders or, where required
by the express terms of this Agree-ment, a greater proportion of
the Lenders.

          13.04.  Reliance.??  The Collateral Agent shall be
entitled to rely upon any written notices, statements,
certificates, orders or other documents or any telephone message
believed by it in good faith to be genuine and correct and to
have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person, and with
respect to all mat-ters pertain-ing to this Agreement or any of
the Loan Documents and its duties hereunder or thereunder, upon
advice of legal counsel (including counsel for the Borrower),
independent public accountants and other experts selected by it.

          13.05.  Indemnification.  ??To the extent that the
Collateral Agent is required under the terms of the Loan
Documents to be reimbursed and indemnified by the Borrower but is
not reimbursed and indemnified by the Borrower, the Lenders will
reimburse and indemnify the Collateral Agent for and against any
and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties,
actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or dis-burse-ments of
any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred
by, or asserted against it in any way relating to or arising out
of the Loan Documents or any action taken or omitted by the
Collateral Agent under the Loan Documents, in proportion to each
Lender's Pro Rata Share.  The obligations of the Lenders under
this Section 13.05 shall survive the payment in full of the
Loans, the Reimbursement Obligations and all other Obligations
and the termination of this Agreement.

          13.06.  Citicorp Individually.  ??With respect to its
Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share and the Loans made by it,
Citicorp shall have and may exercise the same rights and powers
hereunder and is subject to the same obligations and liabilities
as and to the extent set forth herein for any other Lender.  The
terms "Lenders" or "Requisite Lenders" or any similar terms
shall, unless the context clearly otherwise indi-cates, include
Citicorp in its individual capacity as a Lender or one of the
Requisite Lenders.  Citicorp and its Affiliates may accept
deposits from, lend money to, and generally engage in any kind of
banking, trust or other business with the Borrower or any of its
Affiliates as if it were not acting as the Collateral Agent
pursuant hereto.

          13.07.  Successor Collateral Agents??.  (a)
Resignation.  The Collateral Agent may resign from the
performance of all its functions and duties hereunder at any time
by giving at least thirty (30) Business Days' prior written
notice to the Borrower and the Lenders.  Such resignation shall
take effect upon the acceptance by a successor Collateral Agent
of appoint-ment pursuant to this Section 13.07.

          (b)  Appointment by Requisite Lenders.  Upon any such
notice of resignation, an Administrative Agent shall have the
right to be appointed as a successor Collateral Agent and, if
such Administrative Agent declines such right to appointment, the
Requisite Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor
Collateral Agent selected from among the Lenders which
appointment shall be subject to the prior written approval of the
Borrower (which may not be unreasonably withheld, and shall not
be required upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an
Event of Default).

          (c)  Appointment by Retiring Collateral Agent.  If a
successor Collateral Agent shall not have been appointed within
the thirty (30) Business Day period provided in clause (a) of
this Section 13.07, the retiring Collateral Agent, with the
consent of the Borrower (which may not be unreasonably withheld,
and shall not be required upon the occurrence and during the
continuance of an Event of Default), shall then appoint a
successor Collateral Agent who shall serve as such until such
time, if any, as the Requisite Lenders appoint a successor
Collateral Agent as provided above.

          (d)  Rights of the Successor and Retiring Collateral
Agents.  Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Collateral
Agent hereunder by a successor Collateral Agent, such successor
Collateral Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested
with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the
retiring Collateral Agent, and the retiring Collateral Agent
shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this
Agreement.  After any retiring Collateral Agent's resignation
hereunder as Collateral Agent, the provisions of this Article
XIII shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or
omitted to be taken by it while it was the Collateral Agent under
this Agreement.

          13.08.  Relations Among Lenders??.  Each Lender and
each Issuing Bank agrees (except as provided in Section 15.05)
that it will not take any legal action, nor institute any actions
or proceedings, against the Borrower or any other obligor
hereunder or under the other Loan Documents with respect to any
Collateral, with-out the prior written consent of the Requisite
Lenders.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no
Lender may accelerate or otherwise enforce its portion of the
Obligations, or unilaterally terminate its Revolving Loan
Commitment except in accordance with Section 12.02(a).

          13.09.  Concerning the Collateral and the Loan
Documents.??  (a)  Protective Advances.  The Collateral Agent may
from time to time, before or after the occurrence of an Event of
Default, make such disbursements and advances pursuant to the
Loan Documents which the Collateral Agent, in its sole
discretion, deems necessary or desirable to preserve or protect
the Collateral or any portion thereof or to enhance the
likelihood or maximize the amount of repayment of the Loans and
other Obligations in an amount outstanding at any time not to
exceed $20,000,000 ("Protective Advances").  The Collateral Agent
shall promptly notify the Borrower and each Lender in writing of
each such Protective Advance, which notice shall include a
description of the purpose of such Protective Advance.  The
Borrower agrees to pay the Collateral Agent, upon demand, the
principal amount of all outstanding Protective Advances, together
with interest thereon at the rate from time to time applicable to
Base Rate Loans from the date of such Protective Advance until
the outstanding principal balance thereof is paid in full.  If
the Borrower fails to make payment in respect of any Protective
Advance within one (1) Business Day after the date the Borrower
receives written demand therefor from the Collateral Agent, the
Collateral Agent shall promptly notify each Lender and each
Lender agrees that it shall thereupon make available to the
Collateral Agent, in Dollars in immediately available funds, the
amount equal to such Lender's Pro Rata Share of such Protective
Advance.  If such funds are not made available to the Collateral
Agent by such Lender within one (1) Business Day after the
Collateral Agent's demand therefor, the Collateral Agent will be
entitled to recover any such amount from such Lender together
with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Rate for the first day
after the date of such demand and at the interest rate applicable
to Base Rate Loans that are Revolving Loans for each day during
the period commencing on the second day after the date of such
demand and ending on the date such amount is received.  The
failure of any Lender to make available to the Collateral Agent
its Pro Rata Share of any such Protective Advance shall neither
relieve any other Lender of its obligation hereunder to make
available to the Collateral Agent such other Lender's Pro Rata
Share of such Protective Advance on the date such payment is to
be made nor increase the obligation of any other Lender to make
such payment to the Collateral Agent.  All outstanding principal
of, and interest on, Protective Advances shall constitute
Obligations secured by the Collateral until paid in full by the
Borrower.

          (b)  Authority.  Each Lender and each Issuing Bank
authorizes and directs the Collateral Agent to enter into the
Loan Documents relating to the Collateral for the benefit of the
Lenders and the Issuing Banks.  Each Lender and each Issuing Bank
agrees that any action taken by the Collateral Agent or the
Requisite Lenders (or, where required by the express terms of
this Agreement, a greater proportion of the Lenders) in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement or the other
Loan Documents, and the exercise by the Collateral Agent or the
Requisite Lenders (or, where so required, such greater
proportion) of the powers set forth herein or therein, together
with such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto,
shall be authorized and binding upon all of the Lenders and
Issuing Banks.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
the Collateral Agent shall have the sole and exclusive right and
authority to (i) act as the disbursing and collecting agent for
the Lenders and the Issuing Banks with respect to all payments
and collections of the Obligations of the Borrower arising in
connection with this Agreement and the Loan Documents or relating
to the Collateral; (ii) execute and deliver each Loan Document
relating to the Collateral and accept delivery of each such
agreement delivered by the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the
Borrower, or any Guarantor a party thereto; (iii) act as
collateral agent for the Lenders and the Issuing Banks for
purposes of the perfection of all security interests and Liens
created by such agreements and all other purposes stated therein;
provided, however, the Collateral Agent hereby appoints,
authorizes and directs the Lenders and the Issuing Banks to act
as collateral sub-agents for the Collateral Agent, the Lenders
and the Issuing Banks for purposes of the perfection of all
security interests and Liens with respect to the Property at any
time in the possession of such Lender or such Issuing Bank,
including, without limitation, Deposit Accounts maintained with,
and cash and Cash Equivalents held by, such Lender or such
Issuing Bank; (iv) manage, supervise and otherwise deal with the
Collateral; (v) take such action as is necessary or desirable to
maintain the perfection and priority of the security interests
and Liens created or purported to be created by the Loan
Documents; and (vi) except as may be otherwise specifically
restricted by the terms of this Agreement or any other Loan
Document, exercise all remedies given to the Administrative
Agents, the Collateral Agent, the Lenders or the Issuing Banks
with respect to the Collateral under the Loan Documents relating
thereto, applicable law or otherwise.

          (c)  Release of Collateral and Unrestricted
Subsidiaries.  (i) Each Lender and each Issuing Bank hereby
directs, in accordance with the terms of this Agree-ment, the
Collateral Agent to release any Lien held by it for the benefit
of the Holders:

          (A)  against all of the Collateral, upon final and
     indefeasible payment in full of the Obligations and
     termina-tion of this Agreement;
          (B)  against any part of the Collateral sold or
     disposed of by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries,
     if such sale or disposition is per-mitted by Section
     10.02 or is otherwise consented to by the Requisite
     Lenders, as certified to the Collateral Agent by the
     Borrower in an Officer's Certificate and any mandatory
     prepayments required with respect to the proceeds of
     such sale or disposition are made; and/or

          (C)  against any part of the Collateral consisting of a
     promissory note, upon final and indefeasible payment in full
     of the Indebtedness evidenced thereby.

          (ii)  Each Lender and each Issuing Bank hereby directs
the Collateral Agent to execute and deliver or file such
termination and partial release statements and do such other
things as are necessary to release Liens to be released pursuant
to this Section 13.09(c) promptly upon the effectiveness of any
such release; provided that the Collateral Agent shall have
received the proceeds of the Collateral subject to such Liens to
which the Lenders and Issuing Banks are entitled under the terms
of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.

          (iii)  Each Lender and Issuing Bank hereby authorizes
the Collateral Agent, on behalf of such Lenders and Issuing
Banks, to release any Unrestricted Subsidiary from its
obligations as a Guarantor and the Liens granted by such
Unrestricted Subsidiary to secure the Obligations and its
guaranty obligations in the event such Unrestricted Subsidiary
obtains financing the terms of which do not permit such
Indebtedness or Liens.



                          ARTICLE XIV
                        YIELD PROTECTION


          14.01.  Taxes.  ??(a)  Payment of Taxes.  Any and all
payments by the Borrower hereunder or under any Note or other
document evidencing any Obligations shall be made, in accordance
with Section 4.02, free and clear of and with-out reduction for
any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions,
charges, withhold-ings, and all stamp or docu-mentary taxes,
excise taxes, ad valorem taxes and other taxes imposed on the
value of the Property, charges or levies which arise from the
execution, delivery or registration, or from payment or
performance under, or other-wise with respect to, any of the Loan
Documents or the Revolving Credit Commit-ments and all other
liabilities with respect thereto excluding, in the case of each
Lender, each Issuing Bank and the Collateral Agent, taxes imposed
on or measured by net income or overall gross receipts and
capital and franchise taxes imposed on it by (i) the United
States, (ii) the Governmental Authority of the juris-diction in
which such Lender's Applicable Lending Office is located or any
political subdivision thereof or (iii) the Governmental Authority
in which such Person is organ-ized, managed and controlled or any
political subdivision thereof (all such non-excluded taxes,
levies, imposts, deduc-tions, charges and withholdings being
hereinafter referred to as "Taxes").  If the Borrower shall be
required by law to withhold or deduct any Taxes from or in
respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any such Note or
document to any Lender, any Issuing Bank or the Collateral Agent,
(x) the sum payable to such Lender, Issuing Bank, or the
Collateral Agent shall be increased as may be necessary so that
after making all required withholding or deductions (including
withholding or deductions applicable to additional sums payable
under this Section 14.01) such Lender, such Issuing Bank or the
Collateral Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to
the sum it would have received had no such withholding or
deductions been made, (y) such Borrower shall make such
withholding or deduc-tions, and (z) such Borrower shall pay the
full amount withheld or deducted to the relevant taxation
authority or other authority in accordance with appli-cable law.

          (b)  Indemnification.  The Borrower will indemnify each
Lender, each Issuing Bank, each Administrative Agent, and the
Collateral Agent against, and reimburse each on demand for, the
full amount of all Taxes (including, without limitation, any
Taxes imposed by any Governmental Authority on amounts payable
under this Section 14.01 and any additional income or franchise
taxes resulting therefrom) incurred or paid by such Lender, such
Issuing Bank, such Administrative Agent or the Collateral Agent
(as the case may be) or any of their respective Affiliates and
any lia-bil-ity (including penalties, interest, and out-of-pocket
expenses paid to third parties) arising there-from or with
respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes were lawfully pay-
able.  A certificate as to any additional amount payable to any
Person under this Section 14.01 submitted by it to the Borrower
shall, absent mani-fest error, be final, conclusive and binding
upon all parties hereto.  Each Lender and each Issuing Bank
agrees, within a reason-able time after receiving a written
request from the Borrower, to provide the Borrower and the
Collateral Agent with such certificates as are reasonably
required, and take such other actions as are reasonably necessary
to claim such exemptions as such Lender or such Issuing Bank may
be entitled to claim in respect of all or a portion of any Taxes
which are otherwise required to be paid or deducted or withheld
pursuant to this Section 14.01 in respect of any payments under
this Agreement or under the Notes.

          (c)  Receipts.  Within thirty (30) days after the date
of any payment of Taxes by the Borrower, it will furnish to the
Collateral Agent, at its address referred to in Section 15.08,
the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment
thereof.

          (d)  Foreign Bank Certifications.  (i) Each Lender that
is not created or organized under the laws of the United States
or a political subdivision thereof shall deliver to the Borrower
and the Collateral Agent on the Closing Date or the date on which
such Lender becomes a Lender pursuant to Section 15.01 hereof a
true and accurate certif-icate executed in duplicate by a duly
authorized officer of such Lender to the effect that such Lender
is eligible to receive payments here-under and under the Notes
without deduc-tion or withholding of United States federal income
tax (I) under the provi-sions of an applicable tax treaty
concluded by the United States (in which case the certificate
shall be accom-panied by two duly completed copies of IRS Form
1001 (or any successor or substitute form or forms)), (II) under
Sections 1442(c)(1) and 1442(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (in
which case the certificate shall be accompanied by two duly
completed copies of IRS Form 4224 (or any successor or substitute
form or forms)), or (III) due to such Lender's not being a "bank"
as such term is used in Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal
Revenue Code (in which case, the certificate shall be accompanied
by two accurate and complete original signed copies of IRS Form W-
8 (or any successor or substitute form or forms)).

          (ii)  Each Lender further agrees to deliver to the
Borrower and the Collateral Agent from time to time, a true and
accurate certificate executed in duplicate by a duly author-ized
officer of such Lender before or promptly upon the occurrence of
any event requiring a change in the most recent certificate
previously deliv-ered by it to the Borrower and the Collateral
Agent pursuant to this Section 14.01(d).  Each certificate
required to be delivered pursuant to this Section 14.01(d)(ii)
shall certify as to one of the following:

          (A)  that such Lender can continue to receive
     payments here-under and under the Notes without
     deduction or withholding of United States federal
     income tax;
          (B)  that such Lender cannot continue to receive
     payments here-under and under the Notes without
     deduction or withholding of United States federal
     income tax as specified therein but does not require
     additional payments pur-suant to Section 14.01(a)
     because it is entitled to recover the full amount of
     any such deduction or with-holding from a source other
     than the Borrower; or

          (C)  that such Lender is no longer capable of
     receiv-ing payments hereunder and under the Notes
     without deduction or withholding of United States
     federal income tax as specified therein and that it is
     not capable of recov-ering the full amount of the same
     from a source other than the Borrower.

Each Lender agrees to deliver to the Borrower and the Collateral
Agent further duly completed copies of the above-mentioned IRS
forms on or before the earlier of (x) the date that any such form
expires or becomes obsolete or otherwise is required to be
resubmitted as a condition to obtaining an exemption from
withholding from United States federal income tax and (y) fifteen
(15) days after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in
the most recent form previously delivered by such Lender to the
Borrower and Collateral Agent, unless any change in treaty, law,
regulation, or official interpretation thereof which would render
such form inapplicable or which would prevent the Lender from
duly completing and delivering such form has occurred prior to
the date on which any such delivery would otherwise be required
and the Lender promptly advises the Borrower that it is not
capable of receiving payments hereunder and under the Notes
without any deduction or withholding of United States federal
income tax.

          14.02.  Increased Capital.  If?? after the date hereof
any Lender or Issuing Bank determines that (i) the adoption or
implementa-tion of or any change in or in the interpretation or
administration of any law or regulation or any guideline or
request from any central bank or other Governmental Authority or
quasi-governmental authority exercising jurisdic-tion, power or
control over any Lender, Issuing Bank or banks or financial
institutions generally (whether or not having the force of law),
compliance with which affects or would affect the amount of
capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender or
Issuing Bank or any Person controlling such Lender or Issuing
Bank and (ii) the amount of such capital is increased by or based
upon (A) the making or maintenance by any Lender of its Loans,
any Lender's participation in or obligation to participate in the
Loans, Letters of Credit or other advances made hereunder or the
existence of any Lender's obligation to make Loans or (B) the
issuance or maintenance by any Issuing Bank of, or the existence
of any Issuing Bank's obligation to issue, Letters of Credit,
then, in any such case, upon written demand by such Lender or
Issuing Bank (with a copy of such demand to the Collateral
Agent), the Borrower shall immediately pay to the Collateral
Agent for the account of such Lender or Issuing Bank, from time
to time as specified by such Lender or Issuing Bank, additional
amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank or
such Person therefor.  Such demand shall be accompanied by a
statement as to the amount of such compensation and include a
brief summary of the basis for such demand.  Such statement shall
be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest
error.

          14.03.  Changes; Legal Restrictions.  If?? after the
date hereof any Lender or Issuing Bank determines that the
adoption or implementation of or any change in or in the
interpretation or administration of any law or regulation or any
guideline or request from any central bank or other Governmental
Authority or quasi-governmental authority exercising
jurisdiction, power or control over any Lender, Issuing Bank or
over banks or financial institutions generally (whether or not
having the force of law), compliance with which:

          (a)  does or will subject a Lender or an Issuing
     Bank (or its Applicable Lending Office or Eurodollar
     Affili-ate) to charges (other than taxes) of any kind
     which such Lender or Issuing Bank reasonably determines
     to be applicable to Eurodollar Rate Loans outstanding
     under this Agreement or the Revolving Credit
     Commitments of the Lenders and/or the Issuing Banks to
     make Eurodollar Rate Loans or issue and/or participate
     in Letters of Credit or change the basis of taxation of
     payments to that Lender or Issuing Bank of principal,
     fees, inter-est, or any other amount payable hereunder
     with respect to Eurodollar Rate Loans or Letters of
     Credit; or

          (b)  does or will impose, modify, or hold appli-
     cable, in the determination of a Lender or an Issuing
     Bank, any reserve (other than reserves taken into
     account in calculating the Eurodollar Rate), special
     deposit, compulsory loan, FDIC insurance or similar
     require-ment against assets held by, or deposits or
     other liabilities (including those pertaining to
     Letters of Credit) in or for the account of, advances
     or loans by, commitments made, or other credit extended
     by, or any other acquisition of funds by, a Lender or
     an Issuing Bank or any Applicable Lending Office or
     Eurodollar Affiliate of that Lender or Issu-ing Bank;

and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to
that Lender or Issuing Bank of making, renewing or maintaining
the Loans or its Revolving Credit Commitment with respect to, or
issuing or participating in, the Letters of Credit or to reduce
any amount receivable thereunder; then, in any such case, upon
written demand by such Lender or Issuing Bank (with a copy of
such demand to the Collateral Agent), the Borrower shall
immediately pay to the Collateral Agent for the account of such
Lender or Issuing Bank, from time to time as specified by such
Lender or Issuing Bank, such amount or amounts as may be neces-
sary to compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank or its Eurodollar
Affiliate for any such additional cost incurred or reduced amount
received.  Such demand shall be accompanied by a statement as to
the amount of such compensation and include a brief summary of
the basis for such demand.  Such statement shall be conclusive
and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.

          14.04.  Illegality.  ??(i)  If at any time any Lender
deter-mines (which determination shall, absent manifest error, be
final and conclusive and binding upon all parties) that the
making or continuation of or conversion into any Eurodollar Rate
Loan has become unlawful or impermissible by compliance by that
Lender with any law, govern-mental rule, regu-lation or order of
any Governmental Authority (whether or not having the force of
law and whether or not fail-ure to comply therewith would be
unlawful or would result in costs or penal-ties), then, and in
any such event, such Lender may give notice of that
determination, in writing, to the Borrower and the Collateral
Agent, and the Collateral Agent shall promptly transmit the
notice to each other Lender.

         (ii)  When notice is given by a Lender under Section
14.04(i), (A) the Borrower's right to request from such Lender
and such Lender's obligation, if any, to make Eurodollar Rate
Loans shall be imme-diately suspended, and such Lender shall make
a Base Rate Loan as part of any requested Borrowing of Eurodollar
Rate Loans and (B) if the affected Eurodollar Rate Loan or Loans
are then outstand-ing, the Borrower shall immediately, or if
permitted by appli-cable law, no later than the date permitted
thereby, upon at least one (1) Business Day's prior written
notice to the Collateral Agent and the affected Lender, convert
each such Loan into a Base Rate Loan.

        (iii)  If at any time after a Lender gives notice under
Section 14.04(i) such Lender determines that it may lawfully make
Eurodollar Rate Loans, such Lender shall promptly give notice of
that determination, in writing, to the Borrower and the
Collateral Agent, and the Collateral Agent shall promptly
transmit the notice to each other Lender.  The Borrower's right
to request, and such Lender's obligation, if any, to make
Eurodollar Rate Loans shall thereupon be restored.

          14.05.  Compensation.  In?? addition to all amounts
required to be paid by the Borrower pursuant to Section 5.01, the
Borrower shall compensate each Lender, upon demand, for all
losses, expenses and liabilities (including, without limitation,
any loss or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or
reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender
to fund or maintain such Lender's Eurodollar Rate Loans to the
Borrower but excluding any loss of applicable Revolving
Eurodollar Rate Margin or Term Eurodollar Rate Margin on the
relevant Loans) which that Lender may sustain (i) if for any
reason a Borrowing, conversion into or continuation of Eurodollar
Rate Loans does not occur on a date specified therefor in a
Notice of Borrowing or a Notice of Conver-sion/Continuation given
by the Borrower or in a telephonic request by them for borrowing
or conversion/continuation or a successive Eurodollar Interest
Period does not commence after notice therefor is given pursuant
to Section 5.01(c), including, without limita-tion, pursuant to
Section 5.02(d), (ii) if for any reason any Eurodollar Rate Loan
is prepaid (including, without limitation, manda-torily pursuant
to Section 4.01) on a date which is not the last day of the
applicable Eurodollar Interest Period, (iii) as a consequence of
a required conver-sion of a Eurodollar Rate Loan to a Base Rate
Loan as a result of any of the events indicated in Section
5.02(d) or Section 14.04, or (iv) as a consequence of any failure
by the Borrower to repay Eurodollar Rate Loans made to it when
required by the terms of this Agree-ment.  The Lender making
demand for such compensation shall deliver to the Borrower
concurrently with such demand a written state-ment in reasonable
detail as to such losses, expenses and liabilities, and this
statement shall be conclusive as to the amount of compensation
due to that Lender, absent manifest error.

          14.06.  Limitation on Additional Amounts Payable by the
Borrower.??  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 14.01(a),
the Borrower shall not be required to pay any additional amounts
hereunder to a Lender or Issuing Bank if (a) the obligation to
pay such additional amounts would not have arisen but for a
failure by the Lender or Issuing Bank to comply with the
requirements described in Section 14.01 or (b) the Lender or
Issuing Bank shall not have furnished the Borrower with such
forms or shall not have taken such other action as reasonably may
be available to it under applicable tax laws and any applicable
tax treaty to obtain an exemption from, or reduction (to the
lowest applicable rate) of withholding of such United States
federal income tax; provided, however, the Borrower's obligation
to pay such additional amounts shall be reinstated upon receipt
of such forms or evidence that action with respect to obtaining
such exemption or reduction has been taken.

          14.07.  Change in Lending Office.??  Any Lender
claiming any additional amounts payable pursuant to Section 14.01
shall use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy
and legal and regulatory restrictions) to change the Domestic
Lending Office designated by it for purposes of this Agreement to
a Domestic Lending Office in another jurisdiction, if the making
of such a change would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount
of, any such additional amounts which may thereafter accrue and
would not, in the judgment of such Lender, be otherwise
disadvantageous to such Lender.

          14.08.  Judgment Currency.??  If for the purposes of
obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum
due under this agreement or any Note in any currency (the "first
currency") into another currency (the "second currency"), the
parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent permitted by law,
that the Exchange Rate used shall be that determined on the
Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. To
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Obligation in
respect of any sum due in a first currency shall, notwithstanding
any judgment in a second currency, be discharged only to the
extent that on the Business Day following receipt by any of the
Collateral Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank of any sum
adjudged to be so due in the second currency, such Person may
purchase the first currency with the second currency at the
Exchange Rate determined on the date of such purchase; if the
amount of the first currency so purchased is less than the sum
originally due to such Person in the first currency, the Borrower
agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such
judgment, to indemnify such Person against such loss, and if the
amount of the first currency so purchased exceeds the sum
originally due to such Person in the first currency, such Person
agrees to remit to the Borrower such excess.



                           ARTICLE XV
                         MISCELLANEOUS

          15.01.  Assignments and Participations.??  (a)  Assign-
ments.  No assignments or participations of any Lender's rights
or obligations under this Agreement shall be made except in
accordance with this Section 15.01.  Each Lender may assign to
one or more Eligible Assignees all or a portion of its rights and
obligations under this Agreement (including all of its rights and
obligations with respect to the Loans and the Letters of Credit)
in accord-ance with the provisions of this Section 15.01.

          (b)  Limitations on Assignments.  Each assign-ment
shall be subject to the following condi-tions:  (i) each such
assignment may be of any of the following: (A) all of a Lender's
outstanding Term Loan, (B) all of a Lender's Revolving Credit
Commitment (together with its Revolving Loans and participations
in outstanding Letters of Credit), (C) any portion of a lender's
Term Loan or Revolving Credit Commitment; provided that such
assignment is made to another Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender,
and (D) in the event a Lender desires to assign a portion of
either its Term Loan or Revolving Credit Commitment to a Person
which is not a Lender or Affiliate of a Lender, such assignment
shall be in a minimum principal amount of $2,500,000 and may be
of either a portion of such Lender's Term Loans, Revolving Credit
Commitment (together with a like portion of its Revolving Loans
and participation in outstanding Letters of Credit) or a
combination thereof; (ii) each such assignment shall be of a
constant, and not a varying, ratable percentage of all of the
assigning Lender's rights and obliga-tions under this Agreement
which are subject to such assignment; (iii) each such assignment
shall be to an Eligible Assignee consented to by the Collateral
Agent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed; (iv) unless an Event of Default shall have occurred and
be continuing unwaived, the Borrower shall have the right to
approve each such Eligible Assignee which is not another Lender
or an Affiliate of a Lender, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed; and (v) the parties to each
such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Collateral
Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Reg-ister, an
Assignment and Acceptance.  Upon such execution, delivery,
acceptance and recording in the Register, from and after the
effective date specified in each Assignment and Accep-tance and
agreed to by the Collateral Agent, (A) the assignee there-under
shall, in addition to any rights and obligations hereunder held
by it immediately prior to such effective date, if any, have the
rights and obligations hereunder that have been assigned to it
pursuant to such Assign-ment and Acceptance and shall, to the
fullest extent permitted by law, have the same rights and
benefits hereunder as if it were an original Lender hereunder,
(B) the assigning Lender shall, to the extent that rights and
obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pur-suant to such
Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released
from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an
Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion
of such assigning Lender's rights and obliga-tions under this
Agreement, the assigning Lender shall cease to be a party
hereto), and (C) the Borrower shall execute and deliver to the
assignee thereunder one or more Notes, as applicable, evidencing
its obligations to such assignee with respect to the Loans.

          (c)  The Register.  The Collateral Agent shall maintain
at its address referred to in Section 15.08 a copy of each
Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it and a
register (the "Register") for the recordation of the names and
addresses of the Lenders and their respective Revolving Credit
Commitments, and the prin-cipal amount of the Loans owing to,
each Lender from time to time and whether such Lender is an
original Lender or the assignee of another Lender pursuant to an
Assignment and Acceptance.  The entries in the Register shall be
conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error,
and the Borrower and each of the Guarantors, the Collateral
Agent, and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is
recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all pur-poses
of this Agreement.  The Register shall be available for
inspection by the Borrower or any Lender at any reasonable time
and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.

          (d)  Fee.  Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Accep-
tance executed by the assigning Lender and an Eligible Assignee
and a processing and recordation fee of $3,000 (pay-able by the
assigning Lender or the assignee, as shall be agreed between
them), the Collateral Agent shall, if such Assignment and
Acceptance has been completed and is in compliance with this
Agreement and in substantially the form of Exhibit A, (i) accept
such Assignment and Acceptance, (ii) record the informa-tion
contained therein in the Register and (iii) give prompt notice
thereof to the Borrower and the other Lenders.

          (e)  Participations.  Each Lender may sell partici-
pations to one or more other financial institutions in or to all
or a portion of its rights and obligations under and in respect
of any and all facilities under this Agreement (including, with-
out limitation, all or a portion of any or all of its Revolving
Credit Commitment hereunder and the Loans owing to it and its
undivided interest in the Letters of Credit); provided, however,
that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement
(including, without limitation, its Revolving Credit Commitments
hereunder) shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain
solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the
performance of such obligations, (iii) the Borrower, the
Collateral Agent, and the other Lenders shall continue to deal
solely and directly with such Lender in connec-tion with such
Lender's rights and obliga-tions under this Agree-ment and (iv)
such participant's rights to agree or to restrict such Lender's
ability to agree to the modi-fication, waiver or release of any
of the terms of the Loan Documents or to the release of any
Collateral covered by the Loan Documents, to consent to any
action or failure to act by any party to any of the Loan
Documents or any of their respec-tive Affiliates, or to exercise
or refrain from exercising any powers or rights which any Lender
may have under or in respect of the Loan Documents or any
Collateral, shall be limited to the right to consent to (A)
increase in the Commitment of the Lender from whom such
participant purchased a participation, (B) reduction of the
principal of, or rate or amount of interest on the Loans(s)
subject to such participation (other than by the payment or
prepayment thereof), (C) postponement of any date fixed for any
payment of principal of, or interest on, the Loan(s) subject to
such participation and (D) release of any Guarantor or all or a
substantial portion of the Collateral except as provided in
Section 13.09(c).

          (f)  Payment to Participants.  Anything in this Agree-
ment to the contrary not-with-standing, in the case of any
participation, all amounts payable by the Borrower under the Loan
Documents shall be calculated and made in the manner and to the
parties required hereby as if no such participation had been
sold; provided, however, that each participant shall be the
beneficiary of the provisions of Article XIV to the extent
amounts payable thereunder do not exceed the amounts payable
thereunder to the Lender from which such participation has been
purchased.

          (g)  Lenders' Creation of Security Interests.
Notwithstanding any other provision set forth in this Agreement,
any Lender may at any time create a security interest in all or
any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including,
without limitation, Obligations owing to it and any Notes held by
it) in favor of any Federal Reserve bank in accordance with
Regulation A of the Federal Reserve Board.

          (h)  Assignments by Citicorp.  If Citicorp ceases to be
a Lender under this Agreement by virtue of any assignment made
pursuant to this Section 15.01, then, as of the effective date of
such cessation, Citibank's obligations to issue Letters of Credit
pursuant to Section 3.01 shall terminate and Citibank shall be an
Issuing Bank hereunder only with respect to outstanding Letters
of Credit issued prior to such date.

          (i)  Information Regarding the Borrower.  Any Lender
may, in connection with any assignment or participation or pro-
posed assignment or participation pursuant to this Section 15.01,
disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or
participant, any information relating to the Borrower or the
Borrower's Subsidiaries furnished to such Lender by the
Collateral Agent or by or on behalf of the Borrower or its
Subsidiaries; provided that, prior to any such disclosure, such
assignee or participant, or proposed assignee or participant,
shall agree to preserve in accordance with Section 15.20 the
confidentiality of any con-fidential information described
therein.
          15.02.  Expenses.??  (a)  Generally.  The Borrower
agrees upon demand to pay, or reimburse the Collateral Agent for,
all of the Administrative Agents' and Collateral Agent's
reasonable internal and external audit, legal, appraisal,
valuation, filing, document duplication and reproduction and
investigation expenses and for all other out-of-pocket costs and
expenses of every type and nature (including, without limitation,
the reasonable fees, expenses and disbursements of Sidley &
Austin, local legal counsel, auditors, accountants, appraisers,
printers, insurance and environ-mental advisers, and other
consultants and agents) incurred by the Collateral Agent in
connection with (i) the Collateral Agent's review and investi-
gation of the Borrower and its Affiliates and the Collateral in
connection with the preparation, negotiation, and execution of
the Loan Documents and the Collateral Agent's periodic reviews
and audits of the Borrower and Guarantors; (ii) the pre-paration,
negotiation, execution and interpretation of this Agreement
(including, without limitation, the satisfac-tion or attempted
satis-faction of any of the conditions set forth in Article VI)
and the other Loan Docu-ments and the making of the Loans here-
under; (iii) the cre-ation, perfection or protec-tion of the
Liens under the Loan Documents (including, with-out limitation,
any reasonable fees and expenses for local counsel in various
jurisdic-tions); (iv) the ongoing administra-tion of this
Agreement, the other Loan Documents, and the Loans, including,
without limitation, consultation with attorneys in connection
there-with and with respect to the Collateral Agent's rights and
responsibilities under this Agreement and the other Loan
Documents; (v) the protection, collection or enforcement of any
of the Obligations or the enforcement of any of the Loan
Documents; (vi) the commencement, defense or intervention in any
court proceeding relating in any way to the Obligations, the
Property, the Borrower, any of the Borrower's Subsidiaries, this
Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents; (vii) the response
to, and preparation for, any subpoena or request for document
production with which the Collateral Agent is served or
deposition or other proceeding in which the Collateral Agent is
called to testify, in each case, relating in any way to the
Obligations, the Property, the Borrower, any of the Borrower's
Subsidiaries, this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents;
and (viii) any amendments, consents, waivers, assignments,
restatements, or supplements to any of the Loan Documents and the
preparation, negotiation, and execution of the same.

          (b)  After Default.  The Borrower further agrees to pay
or reimburse the Collateral Agent, the Issuing Banks and the
Lenders upon demand for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses,
including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees
(including allocated costs of internal counsel and costs of
settlement) incurred by any of them after the occur-rence of an
Event of Default (i) in enforcing any Loan Document or Obligation
or any security therefor or exer-cising or enforcing any other
right or remedy available by reason of such Event of Default;
(ii) in connection with any refinancing or restructuring of the
credit arrangements provided under this Agreement in the nature
of a "work-out" or in any insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding;
(iii) in commencing, defending or inter-vening in any litigation
or in filing a petition, com-plaint, answer, motion or other
pleadings in any legal proceeding relat-ing to the Obligations,
the Property, the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Subsidiaries
and related to or arising out of the transactions contemplated
hereby or by any of the other Loan Documents; and (iv) in taking
any other action in or with respect to any suit or proceeding
(bankruptcy or otherwise) described in clauses (i) through (iii)
above.

          15.03.  Indemnity.  ??The Borrower further agrees (a)
to defend, protect, indemnify, and hold harmless the Collateral
Agent, each of the Administrative Agents, and each and all of the
Lenders and their Affiliates, the Issuing Banks, and each of the
foregoing's respective officers, direc-tors, trustees, employees,
attorneys and agents (including, without limita-tion, those
retained in connection with the satisfaction or attempted
satisfaction of any of the conditions set forth in Article VI)
(collectively, the "Indemnitees") from and against any and all
liabilities, obligations, losses (other than loss of profits),
damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, claims, costs,
expenses and disbursements of any kind or nature what-soever
(excluding any taxes (except as provided in Section 14.01) and
including, with-out limitation, the fees and disbursements of
counsel for such Indemnitees in connection with any investiga-
tive, administrative or judicial proceeding, whether or not such
Indemnitees shall be designated a party thereto), imposed on,
incurred by, or asserted against such Indemnitees in any manner
relating to or arising out of (i) this Agreement or the other
Loan Documents or any act, event or transaction related or
attendant thereto, the making of the Loans and the issuance of
and participation in Letters of Credit hereunder, the management
of such Loans or Letters of Credit, the use or intended use of
the proceeds of the Loans or Letters of Credit hereunder, or any
of the other transactions contemplated by any of the Loan
Documents, including, without limitation, the issuance of the
Senior Subordinated Notes, the Banner Exchange, the Banner
Distribution, and the acquisition of Kaynar pursuant to the
Kaynar Purchase Agreement, or (ii) any Liabilities and Costs
relating to any violation by the Borrower, its Subsidiaries, or
the Guarantors, or their respective predecessors-in-interest of
any Environmental, Health or Safety Requirements of Law, the
past, present or future operations of the Borrower, its
Subsidiaries, any Guarantor, or any of their respective
predecessors in interest, or, the past, present or future
environmental, health or safety condition of any respective past,
present or future Property of the Borrower, any of its
Subsidiaries, or any Guarantor, the presence of asbestos-
containing materials at any respective past, present or future
Property of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries, or any
Guarantor, or the Release or threatened Release of any
Contaminant into the environment by the Borrower, its
Subsidiaries, any Guarantor, or their respective predecessors-in-
interest, or the Release or threatened Release of any Contaminant
into the environment from or at any facility to which the
Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries, or any Guarantor, or their
respective predecessors-in-interest sent or directly arranged the
transport of any Contaminant (collectively, the "Indem-nified
Matters"); provided, however, the Borrower shall have no
obligation to an Indemnitee hereunder with respect to Indemnified
Matters caused by or resulting from the willful misconduct or
gross negli-gence of such Indemnitee, as determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction and (b) not to assert any claim against
any of the Indemnitees on any theory of liability for special,
indirect, consequential or punitive damages arising out of, or in
any way in connection with, the Revolving Credit Commitments, the
Obligations or any other matters governed by this Agreement
and/or the other Loan Documents.  To the extent that the
undertaking to indemnify, pay and hold harmless set forth in the
preceding sentence may be unenforceable because it is violative
of any law or public policy, the Borrower shall contribute the
maximum portion which it is permitted to pay and satisfy under
applicable law, to the payment and satisfaction of all
Indemnified Matters incurred by the Indemnitees. The Collateral
Agent, Administrative Agents, Lenders and the Issuing Banks agree
to notify the Borrower of the institution or assertion of any
Indemnified Matter, but the parties hereto hereby agree that the
failure to so notify the Borrower shall not release the Borrower
from its obligations hereunder.

          15.04.  Change in Accounting Principles??.  If any
change in the accounting principles used in the prepara-tion of
the most recent Financial Statements referred to in Section 8.01
are hereafter required or permitted by the rules, regulations,
pronouncements and opinions of the Financial Accounting Standards
Board or the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(or successors thereto or agencies with similar functions) and
are adopted by the Borrower with the agree-ment of its
independent certified public accountants and such changes result
in a change in the method or result of calculation of any of the
covenants, standards or terms found in Article IX, Article X, and
Article XI, the parties hereto agree to enter into negotiations
in order to amend such provisions so as to equitably reflect such
changes with the desired result that the criteria for evaluating
compliance with such covenants, standards and terms by the
Borrower shall be the same after such changes as if such changes
had not been made; provided, however, no change in such
accounting principles that would affect the method of calculation
of any of the covenants, standards or terms shall be given effect
in such calculations until such provisions are amended, in a
manner satisfactory to the Requisite Lenders and the Borrower, to
so reflect such change in accounting prin-ciples.

          15.05.  Setoff.??  In addition to any Liens granted
under the Loan Documents and any rights now or hereafter granted
under applicable law, upon the occurrence and during the con-
tinuance of any Event of Default, each Lender, each Issuing Bank
and any Affiliate of any Lender or Issuing Bank is hereby
authorized by the Borrower at any time or from time to time,
without notice to any Person (any such notice being hereby
expressly waived) to set off and to appropriate and to apply any
and all deposits (general or special, including, but not limited
to, indebtedness evidenced by certificates of deposit, whether
matured or unmatured (but not including trust accounts)) and any
other Indebtedness at any time held or owing by such Lender,
Issuing Bank or any of their Affiliates to or for the credit or
the account of the Borrower against and on account of the
Obligations of the Borrower to such Lender, Issuing Bank or any
of their Affiliates, including, but not limited to, all Loans and
Letters of Credit and all claims of any nature or description
arising out of or in con-nection with this Agreement,
irrespective of whether or not (i) such Lender or Issuing Bank
shall have made any demand hereunder or (ii) the Collateral
Agent, at the request or with the consent of the Requisite
Lenders, shall have declared the principal of and interest on the
Loans and other amounts due hereunder to be due and payable as
permitted by Article XII and even though such Obligations may be
contingent or unmatured.  Each Lender and each Issuing Bank
agrees that it shall not, without the express consent of the
Requisite Lenders, and that it shall, to the extent it is
lawfully entitled to do so, upon the request of the Requisite
Lenders, exer-cise its setoff rights hereunder against any
accounts of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries, or a Guarantor
now or hereafter maintained with such Lender, Issuing Bank or any
Affiliate of such Lender or Issuing Bank.

          15.06.  Ratable Sharing. ??The Lenders agree among them-
selves that (i) with respect to all amounts received by them
which are applicable to the payment of the Obligations (excluding
the fees described in Section 5.03 and Article XIV), equitable
adjustment will be made so that, in effect, all such amounts will
be shared among them ratably in accordance with their Pro Rata
Shares, whether received by voluntary payment, by the exercise of
the right of setoff or banker's lien, by counterclaim or cross-
action or by the enforce-ment of any or all of the Obligations
(excluding the fees described in Section 5.03 and Article XIV) or
the Collateral, (ii) if any of them shall by voluntary payment or
by the exercise of any right of counterclaim, setoff, banker's
lien or otherwise, receive payment of a propor-tion of the
aggregate amount of the Obliga-tions held by it, which is greater
than the amount which such Lender is entitled to receive
hereunder, the Lender receiving such excess payment shall
purchase, without recourse or warranty, an undivided inter-est
and participation (which it shall be deemed to have done
simultaneously upon the receipt of such payment) in such Obliga-
tions owed to the others so that all such recoveries with respect
to such Obligations shall be applied ratably in accordance with
their Pro Rata Shares; provided, however, that if all or part of
such excess payment received by the purchas-ing party is
thereafter recovered from it, those purchases shall be rescinded
and the purchase prices paid for such participations shall be
returned to such party to the extent necessary to adjust for such
recovery, but without interest except to the extent the
purchasing party is required to pay interest in connection with
such recovery.  The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing
a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section
15.06 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all
its rights of payment (including, subject to Section 15.05, the
right of setoff) with respect to such participation as fully as
if such Lender were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the
amount of such participation.

          15.07.  Amendments and Waivers??.  (a) General
Provisions.  Unless otherwise provided for or required in this
Agreement, no amendment or modi-fi-cation of any provision of
this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents shall be
effective without the written agreement of the Requisite Lenders
(which the Requisite Lenders shall have the right to grant or
withhold in their sole discretion) and the Borrower. No
termination or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any
of the other Loan Documents, or consent to any departure by the
Borrower therefrom, shall be effective without the written
concurrence of the Requisite Lenders, which the Requisite Lenders
shall have the right to grant or withhold in their sole
discretion.  All amendments, modifications, waivers and consents
not specifically reserved to Lenders, Issuing Banks, and the
Collateral Agent in Section 15.07(b), Section 15.07(c) and in
other provisions of this Agreement shall require only the
approval of the Requisite Lenders. Any waiver or consent shall be
effective only in the specific instance and for the specific
purpose for which it was given. No notice to or demand on the
Borrower in any case shall entitle the Borrower to any other or
further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances.

          (b)  Amendments, Consents and Waivers by All Lenders.
Any amendment, modification, termination, waiver or consent with
respect to any of the following provisions of this Agreement
shall be effective only by a written agreement, signed by each
Lender:

     (i)  increase in the amount of any of the Revolving Credit
     Commitments,

     (ii)  form of payment required with respect to or reduction
     of the principal of, rate or amount of interest on the
     Loans, the Reimbursement Obligations, or any fees or other
     amounts payable to the Lenders or Issuing Banks (other than
     by the payment or prepay-ment thereof),

     (iii)  postponement or extension of the Revolving Credit
     Termination Date, the Term Loan Termination Date, or any
     date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on,
     the Loans, the Reimbursement Obligations (other than any
     date fixed pursuant to Section 4.01(b)) or any fees or other
     amounts payable to the Lenders or the Issuing Banks,
     (iv)  the orders of priority of applications set forth in
     Section 4.01,

     (v)  change in the definitions of the Revolving Credit
     Commitments, Term Loan Commitments, Term Loans, or Requisite
     Lenders;

     (vi)  waiver of any of the conditions specified in Sections
     6.01 or 6.02, the prohibition in Section 8.06 against
     designation of any Subsidiary which is part of the Operating
     Unit known as Fairchild Fasteners Group as an Unrestricted
     Subsidiary, or the covenant set forth in Section 9.14,

     (vii)  release of any Guarantor or all or a substantial
     portion of the Collateral (except as provided in Section
     13.09(c)(i)(A) or (B) or in Section 13.09(c)(iii)),

     (viii)  change in the aggregate Term Loan Pro Rata Share and
     Revolving Credit Pro Rata Share of the Lenders which shall
     be required for the Lenders or any of them to take action
     under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents,

     (ix)  amendment of Section 15.01 or this Section 15.07,

     (x)  assignment of any right or interest in or under this
     Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents by the
     Borrower, and

     (xi)  waiver of any Event of Default described in Sections
     12.01(a), (f), (g), (h), and (n).

          (c)  Collateral Agent Authority.  The Collateral Agent
may, but shall have no obligation to, with the written
concurrence of any Lender, exe-cute amendments, modifica-tions,
waivers or consents on behalf of that Lender.  Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Section 15.07, no
amendment, modification, waiver or consent shall affect the
rights or duties of the Collateral Agent under this Agreement or
the other Loan Documents, unless made in writing and signed by
the Collateral Agent in addition to the Lenders required above to
take such action; and the order of priority set forth in clauses
(i) and (ii) of Section 4.02(b) may be changed only with the
prior written consent of the Collateral Agent.  Notwithstanding
anything herein to the contrary, in the event that the Borrower
shall have requested, in writing, that any Lender agree to an
amendment, modification, waiver or consent with respect to any
particular provision or provisions of this Agreement or the other
Loan Documents, and such Lender shall have failed to state, in
writing, that it either agrees or disagrees (in full or in part)
with all such requests (in the case of its statement of
agreement, subject to satisfactory documentation and such other
conditions it may specify) within thirty (30) days after such
request, then such Lender shall be deemed to not have approved
such amendment, modification, waiver or consent and the
Collateral Agent shall thereupon determine whether the Lenders
required above to take the requested action have approved the
same within the required time and communicate such determination
to the Borrower and the Lenders.

          15.08.  Notices.  ??Unless otherwise specifically pro-
vided herein, any notice or other communication herein required
or permitted to be given shall be in writing and may be
personally served, sent by facsimile transmission or courier
service or United States certified mail and shall be deemed to
have been given when delivered in person or by courier service,
upon receipt of a facsimile transmission, or four (4) Business
Days after deposit in the United States mail with postage prepaid
and properly addressed.  Notices to the Collateral Agent pursuant
to Articles II, IV or XIII shall not be effective until received
by the Collateral Agent.  For the purposes hereof, the addresses
of the parties hereto (until notice of a change thereof is deliv-
ered as provided in this Section 15.08) shall be as set forth
below each party's name on the signature pages hereof or the
signature page of any applicable Assignment and Acceptance or in
an amendment to this Agreement, or, (a) as to the Borrower, at
such other address as may be designated by the Borrower in a
written notice to all of the other parties to this Agreement and
(b) as to the Lenders and Issuing Banks, at such other address as
may be designated by such Person in a written notice to the
Collateral Agent.

          15.09.  Survival of Warranties and Agreements.??  All
representations and warranties made herein and all covenants and
other obligations of the Borrower in respect of taxes,
indemnification and expense reimbursement shall survive the
execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Loan
Documents, the making and repayment of the Loans, the issuance
and discharge of Letters of Credit hereunder and the termination
of this Agreement and shall not be limited in any way by the
passage of time or occurrence of any event and shall expressly
cover time periods when the Collateral Agent, any of the Issuing
Banks or any of the Lenders may have come into possession or
control of any of the Borrower's or its Subsidiaries' Property.

          15.10.  Failure or Indulgence Not Waiver; Remedies
Cumula-tive.??  No failure or delay on the part of the Collateral
Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank in the exer-cise of any
power, right or privilege under any of the Loan Docu-ments shall
impair such power, right or privilege or be construed to be a
waiver of any default or acquiescence therein, nor shall any
single or partial exercise of any such power, right or priv-ilege
preclude other or further exercise thereof or of any other right,
power or privi-lege.  All rights and remedies exist-ing under the
Loan Documents are cumulative to and not exclusive of any rights
or remedies otherwise available.

          15.11.  Marshalling; Payments Set Aside.  ??None of the
Collateral Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank shall be under
any obliga-tion to marshall any assets in favor of the Borrower
or any other Person or against or in payment of any or all of the
Obliga-tions.  To the extent that the Borrower makes a payment or
payments to the Collateral Agent, the Lenders or the Issuing
Banks or any of such Persons receives payment from the proceeds
of the Collateral or exercises its rights of setoff, and such
payment or payments or the proceeds of such enforcement or setoff
or any part thereof are subsequently invalidated, declared to be
fraudu-lent or preferential, set aside or required to be repaid
to a trustee, receiver or any other party, then to the extent of
such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended
to be satisfied, and all Liens, right and remedies there-for,
shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if
such payment had not been made or such enforce-ment or setoff had
not occurred.

          15.12.  Severability.??  In case any provision in or
obligation under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents shall
be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, the
validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions
or obligations, or of such provision or obligation in any other
jurisdiction, shall not in any way be affected or impaired
thereby.

          15.13.  Headings.??  Section headings in this Agreement
are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall
not constitute a part of this Agreement or be given any substan-
tive effect.

          15.14.  Governing Law.??  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE
INTERPRETED, AND THE RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES OF THE PARTIES HERETO
DETERMINED, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

          15.15.  Limitation of Liability.??  No claim may be
made by the Borrower, any Lender, any Issuing Bank, either
Administrative Agent, the Collateral Agent, or any other Person
against the Collateral Agent, an Administrative Agent, any other
Issuing Bank or any other Lender or the Affiliates, directors,
officers, employees, attorneys or agents of any of them for any
special, consequential or punitive damages in respect of any
claim for breach of contract or any other theory of liability
arising out of or related to the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement, or any act, omission or event occurring in con-
nection therewith; and the Borrower, each Lender, each Issuing
Bank, each Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent hereby
waives, releases and agrees not to sue upon any such claim for
any such damages, whether or not accrued and whether or not known
or suspected to exist in its favor.

          15.16.  Successors and Assigns.??  This Agreement and
the other Loan Documents shall be binding upon the parties hereto
and their respective successors and assigns and shall inure to
the benefit of the parties hereto and the successors and
permitted assigns of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks.  The
rights hereunder of the Borrower, or any interest therein, may
not be assigned without the written consent of all Lenders as
provided in Section 15.07(b).

          15.17.  Certain Consents and Waivers.??

          (a) Personal Jurisdiction.  (i) EACH OF THE
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENTS, THE COLLATERAL AGENT, THE LENDERS, THE
ISSUING BANKS, AND THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY
SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE
JURISDICTION OF ANY NEW YORK STATE COURT OR FEDERAL COURT SITTING
IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK, AND ANY COURT HAVING JURISDICTION OVER
APPEALS OF MATTERS HEARD IN SUCH COURTS, IN ANY ACTION OR
PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF, CONNECTED WITH, RELATED TO OR
INCIDENTAL TO THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED AMONG THEM IN
CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT,
WHETHER ARISING IN CONTRACT, TORT, EQUITY OR OTHERWISE, OR FOR
RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE
PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL
CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD
AND DETERMINED IN SUCH STATE COURT OR, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT.  EACH OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENTS,
THE COLLATERAL AGENT,  THE LENDERS, THE ISSUING BANKS, AND THE
BORROWER AGREE THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR
PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER
JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER
PROVIDED BY LAW.  THE BORROWER WAIVES IN ALL DISPUTES ANY
OBJECTION THAT IT MAY HAVE TO THE LOCATION OF THE COURT
CONSIDERING THE DISPUTE.

          (ii)  THE BORROWER AGREES THAT THE COLLATERAL AGENT
SHALL HAVE THE RIGHT TO PROCEED AGAINST IT OR ITS PROPERTY IN A
COURT IN ANY LOCATION TO ENABLE THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENTS, THE
COLLATERAL AGENT, THE ISSUING BANKS, THE LENDERS AND OTHER
HOLDERS TO REALIZE ON THE COLLATERAL OR ANY OTHER SECURITY FOR
THE OBLIGATIONS, OR TO ENFORCE A JUDGMENT OR OTHER COURT ORDER
ENTERED IN FAVOR OF AN ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE COLLATERAL
AGENT, ANY ISSUING BANK, ANY LENDER OR OTHER HOLDER.  THE
BORROWER AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT ASSERT ANY PERMISSIVE
COUNTERCLAIMS IN ANY PROCEEDING BROUGHT BY AN ADMINISTRATIVE
AGENT, THE COLLATERAL AGENT, ANY LENDER, ANY ISSUING BANK OR
OTHER HOLDER TO REALIZE ON THE COLLATERAL OR ANY OTHER SECURITY
FOR THE OBLIGATIONS, OR TO ENFORCE A JUDGMENT OR OTHER COURT
ORDER IN FAVOR OF AN ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE COLLATERAL AGENT,
ANY LENDER, ANY ISSUING BANK OR ANY OTHER HOLDER.  THE BORROWER
WAIVES ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY HAVE TO THE LOCATION OF THE
COURT IN WHICH AN ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE COLLATERAL AGENT, ANY
ISSUING BANK, LENDER OR OTHER HOLDER MAY COMMENCE A PROCEEDING
DESCRIBED IN THIS SECTION.

          (b)  Service of Process.  THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY
CONSENTS TO THE SERVICE OF PROCESS OF ANY OF THE AFOREMENTIONED
COURTS IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING BY THE MAILING OF COPIES
THEREOF BY REGISTERED OR CERTIFIED MAIL, POSTAGE PREPAID, TO THE
BORROWER AT  THE BORROWER's NOTICE ADDRESS SPECIFIED BELOW, SUCH
SERVICE TO BECOME EFFECTIVE FIVE (5) DAYS AFTER SUCH MAILING.
THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION (INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, ANY OBJECTION OF THE LAYING OF VENUE OR BASED ON THE
GROUNDS OF FORUM NON CONVENIENS) WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER
HAVE TO THE BRINGING OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH
RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY
JURISDICTION SET FORTH ABOVE.  NOTHING HEREIN SHALL AFFECT THE
RIGHT TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY LAW OR
SHALL LIMIT THE RIGHT OF THE COLLATERAL AGENT TO BRING
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST THE BORROWER IN THE COURTS OF ANY OTHER
JURISDICTION.

          (c)  Waiver of Jury Trial.  EACH OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE
AGENTS, COLLATERAL AGENT, LENDERS, ISSUING BANKS, AND BORROWER
IRREVOCABLY WAIVES TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING WITH
RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT. ANY OF THE
BORROWER, ADMINISTRATIVE AGENTS, COLLATERAL AGENT, LENDERS, OR
ISSUING BANKS MAY FILE AN ORIGINAL COUNTERPART OR A COPY OF THIS
AGREEMENT WITH ANY COURT AS WRITTEN EVIDENCE OF THE CONSENT OF
THE PARTIES HERETO TO THE WAIVER OF THEIR RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY.

          15.18.  Counterparts; Effectiveness; Inconsistencies.??
This Agreement and any amendments, waivers, consents, or supple-
ments hereto may be executed in counterparts, each of which when
so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, but all
such counterparts together shall constitute but one and the same
instrument.  This Agreement shall become effective against the
Borrower, each Lender, each Issuing Bank, the Administrative
Agents and the Collateral Agent on the Closing Date. This
Agreement and each of the other Loan Documents shall be construed
to the extent reasonable to be consistent one with the other, but
to the extent that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are
actually inconsistent with the terms and conditions of any other
Loan Document, this Agree-ment shall govern.

          15.19.  Limitation on Agreements.??  All agreements
between and among the Borrower, the Administrative Agents, the
Collateral Agent, each Lender and each Issuing Bank in the Loan
Documents are hereby expressly limited so that in no event shall
any of the Loans or other amounts payable by the Borrower under
any of the Loan Documents constitute "purpose credit" within the
meaning of Regulation U.

          15.20.  Confidentiality.??  Subject to Section
15.01(i), the Lenders and the Issuing Banks shall hold all
nonpublic information obtained pur-suant to the requirements of
this Agreement and iden-tified as such by the Borrower in
accordance with such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's cus-tomary
procedures for handling confidential informa-tion of this nature
and in accordance with safe and sound banking practices and in
any event may make disclosure (a) to its Affiliates or (b) as is
reasonably required by a bona fide offeree, transferee or
participant in connection with a contemplated assignment,
transfer or participation permitted under Section 15.01 or (c) as
required or requested by any Governmental Authority or
representative thereof or pursuant to legal process or (d) to any
direct or indirect contractual counterparties in swap agreements
or such contractual counterparties' professional advisors,
provided that such offeree, transferee, participant, contractual
counterparty or professional advisor to such contractual
counterparty is disclosed in writing to the Borrower and
Collateral Agent and  agrees, in writing, to keep such
information confidential to the same extent required of the
Lenders hereunder.  In no event shall any Lender or any Issuing
Bank be obligated or required to return any materials furnished
by the Borrower; provided, however, each offeree shall be
required to agree that if it does not become a transferee or
participant it shall return all materials furnished to it by the
Borrower in connection with this Agreement.  Any and all
confidentiality agreements entered into between any Lender or any
Issuing Bank or contractual counterparties and the Borrower or
Collateral Agent shall survive the execution of this Agreement.

          15.21.  ??Entire Agreement.??  This Agreement, taken
together with all of the other Loan Documents, embodies the
entire agreement and under-standing among the parties hereto and
supersedes all prior agreements and under-standings, written and
oral, relating to the subject matter hereof.

          15.22.  Advice of Counsel.??  The Borrower and each
Lender and Issuing Bank understand that the Collateral Agent's
counsel represents only the Collateral Agent's and its
Affiliates' interests and that the Borrower, other Lenders and
other Issuing Banks are advised to obtain their own counsel. The
Borrower represents and warrants to the Collateral Agent and the
other Holders that it has discussed this Agreement with its
counsel.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly exe-cuted
as of the date first above written.



Borrower:                THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION



                         By  Colin M. Cohen
                             Senior Vice President

                         Notice Address:

                         45025 Aviation Drive
                         Suite 400
                         Dulles, Virginia  20166-7516
                         Attn: Colin M. Cohen
                         Telecopier No. (703) 478-5767 and
                         Donald E. Miller
                         Telecopier No. (703) 478-5775

                         with a copy to:

                         Cahill Gordon & Reindel
                         Eighty Pine Street
                         New York, New York  10005-1702
                         Attn: James J. Clark
                         Telecopier No. (212) 269-5420

ADMINISTRATIVE AGENTS:   CITICORP USA, INC., as Administrative
                         Agent



                         By  Suzanne Crymes
                             Vice President



                         NATIONSBANK, N.A., as Administrative
                         Agent



                         By  Michael R. Heredia
                             Senior Vice President



COLLATERAL AGENT:        CITICORP USA, INC., as Collateral Agent


                         By  Suzanne Crymes
                             Vice President

                         Notice Address:

                         Citicorp USA, Inc.
                         399 Park Avenue
                         6th Floor, Zone 4
                         New York, New York  10043
                         Attn: John W. Podkowsky
                         Telecopier No. (212) 793-1290

                         with a copy to:

                         Sidley & Austin
                         One First National Plaza
                         Chicago, Illinois  60603
                         Attn: DeVerille A. Huston
                         Telecopier No.  (312) 853-7036


ISSUING BANK:            CITIBANK, N.A.


                         By  Suzanne Crymes
                             Vice President

                         Notice Address:

                         Citibank, N.A.
                         399 Park Avenue
                         6th Floor, Zone 4
                         New York, New York  10043
                         Attn: John W. Podkowsky
                         Telecopier No. (212) 793-1290



LENDER:                  CITICORP USA, INC.


                         By  Suzanne Crymes
                             Vice President

                         Notice Address:

                         Citicorp USA, Inc.
                         399 Park Avenue
                         6th Floor, Zone 4
                         New York, New York  10043
                         Attn: John W. Podkowsky
                         Telecopier No. (212) 793-1290

                         Domestic Lending Office and Eurodollar
                         Lending Office or Eurodollar Affiliate:

                         Citicorp USA, Inc.
                         c/o Citibank, N.A.
                         2 Penn's Way
                         Suite 200
                         New Castle, Delaware  19720
                         Attn: Amy Goretzka
                         Telecopier No. (302) 894-6120
LENDER:                  NATIONSBANK, N.A.


                         By  Michael R. Heredia
                             Senior Vice President

                         Notice Address
                         and Domestic and Eurodollar
                         Lending Office:

                         NationsBank, N.A.
                         6610 Rockledge Drive
                         6th Floor
                         Bethesda, Maryland 20817-1876
                         Attn:  Michael R. Heredia
                         Telecopier No.  (301) 571-0719




LENDER:                  CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON


                         By  Bill O'Daly
                             Vice President



                         By  Chris T. Horgan
                             Vice Presidnet


                         Notice Address, Domestic Lending Office
and                      Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:

                         Credit Suisse First Boston
                         11 Madison Avenue
                         New York, New York  10010
                         Attn: William O'Daly
                         Telecopier No. (212) 325-8314




LENDER:                  THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO


                         By  Juan J. Duarte
                             Vice president

                         Notice Address:

                         The First National Bank of Chicago
                         153 West 51st Street
                         New York, New York  10019
                         Attn: Andrea S. Kantor
                         Telecopier No. (212) 373-1180


                         Domestic Lending Office and
Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:


                         The First National Bank of Chicago
                         1 First National Plaza
                         Chicago, Illinois  60670
                         Attn:  Stevee Woods
                         Telecopier No.:  (312) 732-4840
LENDER:                  MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER PRIME INCOME
                         TRUST


                         By  Peter Gewirtz
                             Athorized Signatory

                         Notice Address, Domestic Lending Office and
Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:

                         Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Prime Income
                         Trust
                         c/o Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Advisors,
                         Inc.
                         Two World Trade Center
                         72nd Floor
                         New York, New York  10048
                         Attn: Peter Gewirtz
                         Telecopier No. (212) 392-5345



LENDER:                  BOEING CAPITAL CORPORATION


                         By  James C. Hammersmith
                             Senior Documentation Officer

                         Notice Address, Domestic Lending Office and
Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:

                         Boeing Capital Corporation
                         4060 Lakewood Blvd.
                         6th Floor
                         Long Beach, California  90808
                         Attn: April Wakeman
                         Telecopier No. (562) 627-3002


LENDER:                  NATEXIS BANQUE


                         By  Peter J. vanTulder
                             President and Manager Multinational
                             Group

                             John Reid
                             Vice President

                         Notice Address, Domestic Lending Office and
Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:

                         Natexis Banque
                         645 Fifth Avenue
                         New York, New York  10022
                         Attn: Christine Dirringer
                         Telecopier No. (212) 872-5045



LENDER:                  RIGGS BANK N.A.


                         By  Louanne Baily
                             Vice President

                         Notice Address, Domestic Lending Office and
Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:

                         Riggs Bank N.A.
                         808 17th Street, N.W.
                         Washington, D.C.  20005
                         Attn: Louanne Baily
                         Telecopier No. (202) 835-5977



LENDER:                  MERRILL LYNCH SENIOR FLOATING RATE FUND,
                         INC.


                         By  Paul Travers
                             Authorized Signatory

                         Notice Address:

                         Merrill Lynch Senior Floating Rate Fund,
                         Inc.
                         c/o Merrill Lynch Asset Management
                         800 Scudders Mill Road, Area 1B
                         Plainsboro, New Jersey  08536
                         Attn:  Colleen Cunniffe
                         Telecopier No. (609) 282-2756


                         Domestic Lending Office and
Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:

                         Merrill Lynch Senior Floating Rate Fund,
                         Inc.
                         c/o Merrill Lynch Asset Management
                         800 Scudders Mill Road, Area 1B
                         Plainsboro, New Jersey  08536
                         Attn:  Colleen Wade
                         Telecopier No.:  (609) 282-3542




LENDER:                  MERRILL LYNCH SENIOR FLOATING RATE FUND II,
                         INC.


                         By  Paul Travers
                             Authorized Signatory

                         Notice Address:

                         Merrill Lynch Senior Floating Rate Fund II,
                         Inc.
                         c/o Merrill Lynch Asset Management
                         800 Scudders Mill Road, Area 1B
                         Plainsboro, New Jersey  08536
                         Attn:  Colleen Cunniffe
                         Telecopier No. (609) 282-2756


                         Domestic Lending Office and
Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:

                         Merrill Lynch Senior Floating Rate Fund II,
                         Inc.
                         c/o Merrill Lynch Asset Management
                         800 Scudders Mill Road, Area 1B
                         Plainsboro, New Jersey  08536
                         Attn:  Colleen Wade
                         Telecopier No.:  (609) 282-3542



LENDER:                  CREDIT AGRICOLE INDOSUEZ


                         By  Raymond A. Palkenberg
                             Vice President, Manager

                         By  Ernest V. Hodge
                             Vice President
                             Senior Relationship Manager



                         Notice Address, Domestic Lending Office and
Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:

                         Credit Agricole Indosuez
                         55 East Monroe Street
                         Chicago, Illinois  60603
                         Attn: Richard Drennan
                         Telecopier No. (312) 372-9329



LENDER:                                 COMPAGNIE FINANCIERE DE CIC
                         ET DE L'UNION EUROPEENNE


                         By  Sean Mounier
                             First Vice President

                         By  Marcus Edward
                             Vice President

                         Notice Address, Domestic Lending Office and
Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:

                              Compagnie Financiere de CIC et de
                              l'Union Europeenne
                              520 Madison Avenue
                              37th Floor
                              New York, New York  10022
                              Attn: Brian O'Leary
                              Telecopier No. (212) 715-4535


LENDER:                  PROVIDENT BANK OF MARYLAND


                         By  Robert L. Smith
                             Assistant Vice Presdient


                         Notice Address, Domestic Lending Office and
Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:

                         Provident Bank of Maryland
                         114 East Lexington Street
                         Baltimore, Maryland  21202
                         Attn: Robert L. Smith
                         Telecopier No. (410) 277-2291



LENDER:                  CRESCENT/MACH I PARTNERS, L.P.
                         By TCW Asset Management Company
                            Its Investment Manager


                         By  Jonathan R. Insull
                             Vice Presdient

                         Notice Address, Domestic Lending Office and
Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:

                         Crescent/Mach I Partners, L.P.
                         c/o TCW Asset Management Company
                         200 Park Avenue
                         Suite 2200
                         New York, New York  10166-0228
                         Attn:  Mark L. Gold/Justin Driscoll
                         Telecopier No.: (212) 771-4159

                    cc:  Crescent/Mach I Partners, L.P.
                         c/o State Street Bank & Trust Co.
                         Two International Place
                         Boston, Massachusetts  02110
                         Attn:  Elizabeth Kennedy
                         Telecopier No.:  (617) 664-5368
LENDER:                  SEQUILS I, LTD
                         By TCW Advisors, Inc. as its
                            Collateral Manager


                         By  Mark L. Gold
                             Managing Director

                         By  Johnathan Insull
                             Vice President

                         Notice Address:

                         Sequils I, Ltd
                         c/o Trust Company of the West
                         200 Park Avenue
                         Suite 2200
                         New York, New York  10166
                         Attn:  Mark L. Gold/Justin L. Driscoll/
                                Jonathan Insull
                         Telecopier No.:  (212) 771-4159 or 4069


                         Domestic Lending Office and
Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:

                         Sequils I, Ltd
                         c/o Chase Bank of Texas, N.A.
                         Chase Tower, 9th Floor
                         Houston, Texas
                         Attn:  Omar El-Aazami
                         Telecopier No. (713) 216-3571





LENDER:                  KZH CRESCENT LLC


                         By  Virginia Conway
                             Authorized Agent


                         Notice Address, Domestic Lending Office and
Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:

                         KZH Crescent LLC
                         c/o The Chase Manhattan Bank
                         450 West 33rd Street
                         15th Floor
                         New York, New York  10001
                         Attn: Virginia Conway
                         Telecopier No. (212) 946-7776


LENDER:                  KZH CRESCENT-2 LLC


                         By  Virginia Conway
                             Authorized Agent


                         Notice Address, Domestic Lending Office and
Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:

                         KZH Crescent-2 LLC
                         c/o The Chase Manhattan Bank
                         450 West 33rd Street
                         15th Floor
                         New York, New York  10001
                         Attn: Virginia Conway
                         Telecopier No. (212) 946-7776


LENDER:                  KZH CRESCENT-3 LLC


                         By  Virginia Conway
                             Authorized Agent


                         Notice Address, Domestic Lending Office and
Eurodollar Lending Office or Eurodollar
Affiliate:

                         KZH Crescent-3 LLC
                         c/o The Chase Manhattan Bank
                         450 West 33rd Street
                         15th Floor
                         New York, New York  10001
                         Attn: Virginia Conway
                         Telecopier No. (212) 946-7776





LENDER:                  CITIBANK, N.A.



                         By  Suzanne Crymes
                             Vice President


                         Notice Address:

                         Citicorp USA, Inc.
                         399 Park Avenue
                         6th Floor, Zone 4
                         New York, New York  10043
                         Attn: John W. Podkowsky
                         Telecopier No. (212) 793-1290

                         Domestic Lending Office and Eurodollar
                         Lending Office or Eurodollar Affiliate:

                         Citicorp USA, Inc.
                         c/o Citibank, N.A.
                         2 Penn's Way
                         Suite 200
                         New Castle, Delaware  19720
                         Attn: Amy Goretzka
                         Telecopier No. (302) 894-6120
                              EXHIBITS

Exhibit A  --   Form of Assignment and Acceptance

Exhibit B  --   Forms of Notes

Exhibit C  --   Form of Notice of Borrowing

Exhibit D  --   Form of Notice of Conversion/Continuation

Exhibit E  --   Pro Forma Balance Sheet

Exhibit F  --   Projections

Exhibit G  --   Statement of Sources and Uses

Exhibit H  --   List of Closing Documents

Exhibit I  --   Forms of Financial Reports

Exhibit J  --   Form of Officer's Certificate to Accompany Reports

                             SCHEDULES

Schedule 1.01.1   --     Farmingdale Property

Schedule 1.01.2   --     Fiscal Quarter End Dates

Schedule 1.01.3   --     Subsidiary Guarantors as of the Closing
                         Date

Schedule 1.01.4   --     Operating Units

Schedule 1.01.5   --     Permitted Dispositions

Schedule 1.01.6   --     Permitted Equity Securities Options

Schedule 1.01.7   --     Permitted Existing Indebtedness

Schedule 1.01.8   --     Permitted Existing Investments

Schedule 1.01.9   --     Permitted Existing Liens

Schedule 1.01.10  --     Commitments

Schedule 3.02     --     Existing Letters of Credit

Schedule 6.01-J   --     AlliedSignal Inc. Stock Subject to
                         Escrow or Reservation

Schedule 7.01-A   --     Organizational Documents

Schedule 7.01-C   --     Organizational Structure

Schedule 7.01-J   --     Pending Actions

Schedule 7.01-Q   --     Environmental Matters

Schedule 7.01-T   --     Labor Contracts

Schedule 7.01-W   --     Patent, Trademark & Permit Claims
                         Pending

Schedule 7.01-Y   --     Insurance Policies

Schedule 10.02-G  --     Foreign Receivables Discounting
Arrangements

Schedule 10.09    --     Permitted Sale/Leaseback Transactions

Schedule 10.14    --     Collection Accounts

::ODMA\PCDOCS\CHICAGO4\815372\12   September 23, 1999 (4:04PM)

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>3
<TEXT>

                     BANNER AEROSPACE, INC.
                       DEFERRED BONUS PLAN
 January 21,1998; Amended January 7, 1999; and Amended April 8,
                              1999

Section 1.       Purpose

This Plan permits Recipients to elect to defer payment of their
Bonus.

Section 2.       Definitions

(a)      "Bonus" means the amount of Bonus (payable in shares of
AlliedSignal,
         Inc. common stock) a Participant is entitled to receive
as determined
         by the Committee in connection with 1998 or 1999
Extraordinary
         Transactions .

(b)      "Bonus Deferral Election" means an election to defer
payment of a
         Bonus until a date specified by the Participant, which
date shall not
         be later than December 31, 2005.

(c)      "Bonus Deferral Participant" means a Recipient who has
made a Bonus
         Deferral Election and who has been designated by the
Committee as
         eligible to participate in the Plan.

(d)      "Committee" means the Compensation and Stock Option
Committee of the
         Board, which Committee shall administer this Plan, as
provided in
         Section 10 hereof.

(e)      "Corporation" means Banner Aerospace, Inc. and its
corporate
         successors.

(f)      "Deferred Bonus" means Bonus deferred pursuant to the
terms of this
         Plan.

(g)      "Deferred Bonus Account" means the account or accounting
entry which
         signifies the total amount of Deferred Bonus for a
particular fiscal
         year with respect to each Bonus Deferral Participant.

(h)      "Deferred Bonus Election Form" means the form by which
an eligible
         person elects to become a Bonus Deferral Participant.

(i)      "Designation of Beneficiary Form" means the form by
which a
         Participant designates a beneficiary or beneficiaries,
or modifies a
         prior designation of a beneficiary or beneficiaries.





                                       1

(j)      "Participant" means a Recipient who is a Bonus Deferral
Participant.

(k)      "Plan" shall mean this Deferred Bonus Plan, or any
amendment thereto.

(1)      "Payment Date" means each date the Participant elects to
receive
         payment of all or a portion of the Deferred Bonus.

(m)      "Recipient" means a person who (i) has been designated
by the
         Committee to be entitled to participate in this Plan,
and (ii) is
         deemed to be an "Accredited Investor"(as defined under
Federal
         Securities Laws). A Recipient need not be an employee of
the
         Corporation. Recipients participating in the Plan shall
provide such
         certifications and other evidence as the Corporation may
reasonably
         require to establish that they are Accredited Investors.

(n)      "Undistributed Balance" of any Deferred Bonus means that
portion of
         any Deferred Bonus which has not been distributed to the
Bonus Deferral
         Participant by dint of his or her Bonus Deferral
Election.

Section 3.         Eligibility

     Each Recipient, or other person deemed eligible to receive a
Bonus as
determined by the Committee, is eligible to make a Bonus Deferral
Election and
become a Bonus Deferral Participant.

Section 4.         Participation

     In order to participate in the Plan, a Recipient must make a
valid Bonus
Deferral Election by executing and filing with the Corporation,
before the
period of time for which the Recipient would otherwise be
eligible to receive
the Bonus being deferred, a Bonus Deferral Election Form and a
Designation of
Beneficiary From.

     A Participant's Bonus Deferral Election defers payment of
Bonus awarded
after the date of the adoption of the Plan to the Payment Date
designated by
the Participant. Interest shall be paid by the Corporation on the
Undistributed
Balance of any Deferred Bonus at 8% per annum, compounded
annually, as computed
in accordance with Section 5. The Bonus Deferral Election is
irrevocable, but
each Participant may at any time or from time to time amend the
designation of
beneficiary or beneficiaries.

      Each  Participant may, at any time or from  time  to  time,
amend  the  designation  of  beneficiary  or  beneficiaries.   In
addition, each Participant may, at any time or from time to time,
amend the Bonus Deferral Election; provided, however, that:   (i)
such amendments are made before the applicable bonus is otherwise
payable;  (ii)  such  amendments may  only  extend  the  deferral
period,  and may not shorten the deferral period; and  (iii)  the
deferral period may not, in any event, extend beyond December 31,
2005.


                                       2

     The Corporation shall establish a single Deferred Bonus
Account and shall
credit to that Deferred Bonus Account the Bonus designated by
each and all
Participants.

Section 5.         Payment of Accounts and Method of Computation

     Except as provided in Section 7 below, payment shall be made
to each
Participant from the Deferred Bonus Account on the Payment Date
specified in
that Participant's Deferral Bonus Election Form.

Section 6.         Form of Bonus and Payment

     The Bonus eligible to be deferred represents a fixed number
of shares of
common stock of AlliedSignal Inc. owned by the Corporation. The
closing stock
price of such stock on the date the Bonus is awarded by the
Committee will be
used to calculate interest under Section 4, which amount will be
increased by
interest earned in prior periods for purposes of computing the
annual interest
to be calculated under Section 4. Any dividends payable on such
stock during
the deferral period shall be paid for the benefit of the
Corporation. The
number of Shares shall be adjusted to give effect to any stock
splits or other
recapitalization events of AlliedSignal Inc., which could affect
the number of
Shares held during the deferral period. Distributions of Bonus to
a Participant
shall be made in kind. Distributions of interest to a Participant
shall be made
in cash at such time and in such proportion as payments of Bonus,
as designated
on the Participant's Bonus Deferral Election.

Section 7.         Death of a Participant

     Upon the death of a Participant, the full amount held for
him or her in
the Deferred Bonus Account shall be paid to the beneficiary or
beneficiaries of
such Account designated by the Participant on his last submitted
Designation of
Beneficiary Form for such account.

Section 8.         Participant's Rights Unsecured

     The right of the Participant or any beneficiary of a
Participant to
receive any distribution hereunder shall be an unsecured claim
against the
general assets of the Corporation. Notwithstanding anything
herein to the
contrary, the Corporation shall not sell, transfer or otherwise
alienate the
Deferred Bonus Account, and the stock held therein, except for
distributions to
Participants or their beneficiary or beneficiaries in accordance
with this
Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may vote the
stock of
AlliedSignal, Inc. which is subject to the Plan, participate in
reorganizations, recapitalizations, mergers or other events and
receive all
proceeds in liquidation of AlliedSignal Inc.





                                       3

Section 9.         Participant's Interest is Nonforfeitable

     The interest of a Participant or any beneficiary of a
Participant in his
Deferred Bonus Account shall in all events be vested and
nonforfeitable,
irrespective of any continuing relationship between the
Participant and the
Corporation.

Section 10.        Administration of the Plan - Committee

     The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The
Committee shall act
by vote of a majority of its members or by unanimous written
consent. The Plan
may be amended, modified, or terminated by the Committee, except
that no such
action shall (without the consent of the Participant, or, if the
Participant
has deceased, any beneficiary or beneficiaries, distributed or
personal
representative) alter the rights of a Participant with respect to
the Deferred
Bonus Account established pursuant to this Plan prior to the date
of such
amendment, modification or termination.

Section 11.        Alienation

     Neither the Deferred Bonus Account nor any amount, the
payment of which
has been deferred under this Plan, shall be subject in any manner
to the
Participant's or his creditor's sale, transfer, levy or charge,
and any attempt
by such Participant or his creditors to so alienate, sell,
transfer, levy or
charge the same shall be void; nor shall any such amount be in
any manner
subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or
torts of the
Participant.

Section 12.        Taxes

     The Participants and their beneficiaries, distributees, and
personal
representative will bear all Federal, foreign, state, local or
other income or
other taxes imposed on amounts paid under this Plan. All such
taxes shall be
computed by, and remitted to, the Corporation at each Payment
Date, for deposit
by the Corporation with the appropriate taxing jurisdiction.

Section 13.        Consent

     By electing to become a Participant, each Recipient shall be
deemed
conclusively to have accepted and consented to all the terms of
this Plan and
all actions or decisions made by the Corporation, or the
Committee with regard
to the Plan. Such terms and consent shall also apply to and be
binding upon the
beneficiaries, distributees, and personal representatives and
other successors
in interest of each Participant.




                                       4

Section 14.        Severability

     In the event any provision of this Plan would serve to
invalidate the
Plan, that provision shall be deemed to be null and void, and the
Plan shall be
construed as if it did not contain the particular provision that
would make it
invalid.

Section 15.        Applicable Law

The Plan shall be interpreted and construed under the laws of the
State of
Delaware.

Section 16.        No Right of Continuing Employment

     Nothing contained herein shall be construed as conferring
upon the
Participant the right to continue in the employment of the
Corporation.


Amendment Date April 8, 1999

On April 8, 1999, Banner became a wholly-owned subsidiary of The
Fairchild Corporation.  The Boards of Directors of Fairchild and
Banner amended the Banner Deferred Bonus Plan to provide as
follows, effective as of May 21, 1999:

          1.   The Plan shall henceforth be administered by the
          Fairchild Compensation & Stock Option Committee rather
          than the Banner Compensation & Stock Option Committee.

          2.   The shares of AlliedSignal common stock presently
          held in each Participant's Deferred Bonus Account  may
          be sold, at the election of the Fairchild Board, and
          proceeds from such sale may be reinvested in other
          securities.  Each Participant's Deferred Bonus Account
          shall be credited with the proceeds or new securities,
          as applicable, from the sale and reinvestments of the
          AlliedSignal shares presently credited to such
          Participant's account.

          3.   In the future, the Fairchild Board may authorize
          further sales and reinvestments of any securities held
          at any time in each Participant's Deferred Bonus
          Account, and such Participant's account shall be
          credited with the proceeds or securities from any such
          sales and reinvestments.

          4.   Upon a Participant's request, the Participant
          shall be notified of the type and number of securities
          held in his/her Deferred Bonus Account.

          5.   Upon termination of each Participant's bonus
          deferral period, he/she shall be entitled to receive
          accrued interest (as provided in the Plan), and the
          proceeds or securities (as the case may be) credited to
          his/her Deferred Bonus Account as per paragraphs 2 and
          3 above.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>4
<TEXT>

NYDOCS02/473857 4

          SHARE PURCHASE AGREEMENT, dated as of July 27, 1999
between RHI HOLDINGS, INC., a Deleware corporation ("RHI"),
JEFFREY J STEINER (together with RHI, the "Sellers"), and
AMERICAN NATIONAL CAN GROUP, INC., a Delaware corporation (the
"Buyer").

                           WITNESSETH:

          WHEREAS, RHI owns 53,055,000 shares of Nacanco
Paketleme Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. ("Nacanco") and Jeffrey J
Steiner owns 5,220,000 shares of Nacanco (together with the
shares held by RHI, the "Sale Shares") and each Seller has the
right to sell or procure the sale of its Sale Shares free from
all liens, charges and encumbrances.

          WHEREAS, the Sellers have agreed with the Buyer to sell
to the Buyer or to its nominees the Sale Shares on the terms and
subject to the conditions of this Agreement.

          NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the
mutual agreements and covenants hereinafter set forth, the
Sellers and the Buyer hereby agree as follows:


1.   SALE AND PURCHASE OF SALE SHARES

     Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this
     Agreement, as at the Closing Date (as defined below), the
     Sellers shall sell or procure the sale of the Sale Shares
     and the Buyer or its nominees shall purchase for the
     Purchase Price (as defined below) all of the Sale Shares
     free from all liens, charges and encumbrances
     ("Encumbrances") and with all rights attached thereto.

2.   PURCHASE PRICE

     The aggregate purchase price for the Sale Shares shall be
     $53,000,000 (the "Purchase Price") allocated between the
     Sellers in proportion to the number of Sale Shares held by
     each Seller (as set forth under each Seller's name on the
     signature page hereof), and payable in the manner provided
     by Clause 4.2.2 below.

3.   FURTHER OBLIGATIONS

     As soon as practicable, and in any event within five days
     hereof, the Sellers will:

3.1  file with the Tuzla Court of First Instance a Stipulation of
     Withdrawal in form reasonably satisfactory to the Buyer,
     duly executed by counsel to Jeffrey J Steiner, agreeing to
     withdraw the legal action referenced therein;

3.2  file with the International Chamber of Commerce a letter in
     form reasonably satisfactory to the Buyer, signed by counsel
     to RHI and Jeffrey J Steiner, seeking to withdraw the
     arbitration proceedings referenced therein;

3.3  file with the Supreme Court of the State of New York a
     Stipulation of Discontinuance in form reasonably
     satisfactory to the Buyer, duly executed by counsel to RHI
     and Jeffrey J Steiner, agreeing to withdraw the legal action
     referenced therein;

3.4  deliver to the Buyer or relevant third party such documents
     as may be necessary to terminate any other legal actions
     pending or instigated against the Buyer or any of its
     affiliates by the Sellers in connection with Nacanco; and

3.5  deliver to the Buyer a resolution of the board of directors
     of Nacanco, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Buyer,
     duly signed by Jeffrey J Steiner and Eric Steiner, approving
     the transfer by Pechiney of its 108,220,158 shares of
     Nacanco to the Buyer.

4.   CLOSING

     The Closing of the sale and purchase of the Sale Shares
     contemplated by this Agreement shall take place at 10.00
     a.m. on July 28, 1999 (or at such later date as may be
     agreed between the Sellers and the Buyer) (the "Closing
     Date") at the offices of Shearman & Sterling, 599 Lexington
     Avenue, New York, New York.

     When:

4.1  the Sellers will each deliver to the Buyer:

     4.1.1     a document effecting transfer of title in the Sale
          Shares it holds, duly executed by the Seller in favor
          of the Buyer (or as it in writing directs) and such
          letters of direction, waivers, consents or other
          documents as may be required to give good legal and
          beneficial title to the Sale Shares and to enable the
          Buyer or its nominees to become registered holders
          thereof free and clear of all Encumbrances, together
          with, if relevant, any share certificate(s) duly
          endorsed in favor of the Buyer or its nominees; and

     4.1.2     a Release in the form set out in Exhibit A hereto
          (the "Release"), duly executed by each of the Sellers,
          releasing and discharging Pechiney and the Buyer, among
          others, from all claims and demands.

4.2  the Buyer shall:

     4.2.1     deliver to the Sellers the Release, duly executed
          by Pechiney and the Buyer, releasing and discharging
          the Sellers, among others, from all claims and demands;
          and

     4.2.2     effect payment to the Sellers of the Purchase
          Price by wire transfer in immediately available funds
          to accounts of the Sellers previously designated for
          the purpose, in the allocation set out in Clause 2
          above.

5.   RENUNCIATION

     The Sellers agree to renounce any intention to use in any
     way the order of the President of the Court of Grand
     Instance issued in Paris, France on July 26, 1999 against
     Pechiney (the "Order"), or to obtain any benefit from the
     Order.  If requested by Pechiney or the Buyer, the Sellers
     further agree to cooperate with Pechiney to obtain the
     withdrawal of the Order, including signature of such forms
     as may be reasonably necessary to obtain that result.

6.   REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

6.1  Each Seller hereby represents and warrants to the Buyer as
     follows:

     6.1.1     it owns of record and beneficially, and has good
          and marketable title to, free and clear of all
          Encumbrances, the Sale Shares stated to be owned by it
          in the recitals hereto, which Sale Shares constitute
          all of its interests in the shares or capital of
          Nacanco, and upon consummation of the transactions
          contemplated by this Agreement, the Buyer will acquire
          valid title to the Sale Shares, free and clear of all
          Encumbrances;

     6.1.2     the execution, delivery and performance of this
          Agreement by the Seller do not and will not result in
          any material breach of, constitute a default (or event
          which with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or
          both, would become a default) under, or give to others
          any rights of termination, amendment, acceleration or
          cancellation of, or result in the creation of any
          Encumbrance on any of the Sale Shares owned by the
          Seller pursuant to, any note, bond, mortgage or
          indenture, contract, agreement, lease or sublease to
          which the Seller is a party or by which any of the Sale
          Shares owned by the Seller is bound or affected; and

     6.1.3     it has all necessary power and authority to enter
          into this Agreement, to carry out its obligations
          hereunder and to consummate the transactions
          contemplated hereby, and this Agreement has been duly
          executed and delivered by it and (assuming due
          authorization, execution and delivery by the other
          parties hereto) constitutes a legal, valid and binding
          obligation of the Seller enforceable against it or him
          in accordance with its terms.

6.2  The Buyer hereby represents and warrants to the Seller that
     it has all necessary corporate power and authority to enter
     into this Agreement, to carry out its obligations hereunder
     and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby, and
     that the Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by
     it and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery
     by the Sellers) constitutes a legal, valid and binding
     obligation of the Buyer enforceable against it in accordance
     with its terms.

7.   CONSULTANCY ARRANGEMENTS

     For a period of three years from the Closing (the
     "Consulting Term"), the Buyer hereby agrees to engage the
     Sellers to perform consulting services with respect to the
     business and operations of Nacanco in accordance with the
     reasonable requests of the Buyer, and in the performance of
     such services the Sellers agree to use reasonable efforts to
     promote the business and interests of Nacanco.  As
     compensation for the consulting services to be performed by
     the Sellers, the Buyer shall pay the Sellers a quarterly fee
     of $400,000, payable on the last day of each of the twelve
     quarters during the Consulting Term, commencing on September
     30, 1999, by wire transfer to an account previously
     designated in writing by the Sellers (for a total payment of
     $4,800,000).

8.   FURTHER ACTION

     The parties hereto will after as well as before and upon the
     Closing Date do all acts and things and sign and execute all
     documents and deeds reasonably required for the purposes of
     implementing the terms hereof.

9.   AMENDMENT

     This Agreement may not be amended or modified except by an
     instrument in writing signed by each of the Sellers and the
     Buyer.

10.  SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE

     The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage would occur
     in the event any provision of this Agreement was not
     performed in accordance with the terms hereof and that the
     parties shall be entitled to specific performance of the
     terms hereof.

11.  GOVERNING LAW

     This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
     New York.  All actions and proceedings arising out of or
     relating to this Agreement shall be heard and determined in
     any New York state or federal court sitting in The City of
     New York, and the parties hereto hereby consent to the
     exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any such action or
     proceeding.
12.  COUNTERPARTS

     This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts,
     and by the different parties hereto in separate
     counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to
     be an original but all of which taken together shall
     constitute one and the same agreement.

13.  PUBLICITY

     Each party agrees not to issue any press releases or
     otherwise publicly disclose the matters covered by this
     Agreement and the Releases without the prior consent of the
     other parties, which consent shall not be unreasonably
     withheld; provided, however, that nothing in this Clause 13
     shall restrict the disclosure of this Agreement or the
     transactions contemplated thereby required in the
     Registration Statement on Form S-1 to be filed with the
     Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") by the
     Buyer in connection with its initial public offering, or in
     subsequent filings with the Commission if so required.

14.  WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL

     EACH OF THE SELLERS AND THE BUYER HEREBY EXPRESSLY
     IRREVOCABLY WAIVE ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION,
     PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT
     OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT
     OR THE ACTIONS OF THE SELLERS OR THE BUYER IN THE
     NEGOTIATION, ADMINISTRATION, PERFORMANCE AND ENFORCEMENT
     THEREOF.


          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this
Agreement to be duly executed, as of the day and year first above
written, by, in the case of RHI and the Buyer, their respectively
authorized signatories thereunto duly authorized.



                              RHI HOLDINGS, INC.

                              By:
                                      Name:  Donald E. Miller
                                      Title:  Vice President
                                       Proportion of Sale Shares:
91 %



                              JEFFREY J STEINER


                              Proportion of Sale Shares: 9 %




                              AMERICAN NATIONAL CAN GROUP, INC.

                              By:
                                      Name:  Edward A. Lapekas
                                            Title:      President
                            EXHIBIT A
                             RELEASE




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>5
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 5
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JUN-30-1999
<PERIOD-END>                               JUN-30-1999
<CASH>                                          54,860
<SECURITIES>                                    13,094
<RECEIVABLES>                                  136,563
<ALLOWANCES>                                     6,442
<INVENTORY>                                    190,239
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               462,240
<PP&E>                                         287,621
<DEPRECIATION>                                 103,556
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               1,328,786
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          233,266
<BONDS>                                        495,283
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         2,975
<OTHER-SE>                                     404,525
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 1,328,786
<SALES>                                        617,322
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                               621,321
<CGS>                                          504,893
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  667,132
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                     0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              30,346
<INCOME-PRETAX>                               (36,457)
<INCOME-TAX>                                    13,245
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                           (23,507)
<DISCONTINUED>                                (31,349)
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                (4,153)
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                  (59,009)
<EPS-BASIC>                                     (2.59)
<EPS-DILUTED>                                   (2.59)


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>6
<TEXT>

          Consent of the Independent Public Accountants



As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the
incorporation of our reports included in this Form 10-K, into the
Company's previously filed Registration Statement File Nos. 35-
27317, 33-21698, 33-06183, 333-49779, and 333-62037.


Arthur Andersen LLP

Vienna, Virginia
  September 27, 1999


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-22
<SEQUENCE>7
<TEXT>




                       THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION

                  Direct and Indirect Subsidiaries??
A10 Inc. [DE]
Aero International, Inc. [Ohio]
Aircraft Tire Corporation [DE]
Aviation Full Services (Hong Kong) Limited [Hong Kong]
Avilas, Inc. [DE]
Banner Aero (Australia) Pty, Ltd. [Australia]
Banner Aerospace Holding Company I, Inc.[DE]
Banner Aerospace Holding Company II, Inc.[DE]
Banner Aerospace, Inc. [DE]
Banner Aerospace Services, Inc. [Ohio]
Banner Aerospace-Singapore, Inc. [DE]
Banner Capital Ventures, Inc.[DE]
Banner Energy Corporation of Kentucky, Inc. [DE]
Banner Industrial Distribution, Inc.[DE]
Banner Industrial Products, Inc.[DE]
Banner Investments (U.K.) Limited [U.K.]
BP Herndon Aerospace, Inc. [Missouri]
Camloc (U.K.) Ltd. [U.K.]
BAR DE, Inc. [DE]
Camloc Holdings Inc. [DE]
Camloc (UK) Limited [UK]
Convac France S.A. [France]
DAC International, Inc. [TX]
Dallas Aerospace, Inc. [TX]
Discontinued Aircraft, Inc. [TX]
Discontinued Services, Inc. [DE]
Eurosim Componentes Mec??nicos de Seguran??a, Lda. [Portugal]
F. F. Handels GmbH [Germany]
Fairchild Arms International Limited [Ontario]
Fairchild Data Corporation [DE]
Fairchild Export Sales Corporation [Barbados]
Fairchild Fastener Group Ltd. [U.K.]
Fairchild Fasteners Corp.[DE]
Fairchild Fasteners Direct, Inc. [DE]
Fairchild Fasteners Direct oHG (GmbH & Co.) [Germany]
Fairchild Fasteners Europe--Camloc GmbH [Germany]
Fairchild Fasteners Europe--Simmonds S.A.R.L. [France]
Fairchild Fasteners Europe--VSD GmbH [Germany]
Fairchild Fasteners Germany GmbH [Germany]
Fairchild Finance Company [Republic of Ireland]
Fairchild France, Inc.[DE]
Fairchild Germany, Inc. [DE]
Fairchild Holding Corp. [DE]
Fairchild Retiree Medical Services, Inc. [DE]
Fairchild Technologies Europe Limited [U.K.]
Fairchild Technologies IP, Inc. [DE]
Fairchild Technologies Korea Limited [Korea]
Fairchild Technologies Optical Disc Equipment Group GmbH [Germany]
Fairchild Technologies Semiconductor Equipment Group GmbH [Germany]
Fairchild Technologies USA, Inc. [DE]
Fairchild Titanium Technologies, Inc.[DE]
Faircraft Sales Limited [DE]
GCCUS, Inc. [CA]
Georgetown Jet Center, Inc. [DE]
Gobble Gobble, Inc. [DE]
Jenkins Coal Dock Company, Inc.[DE]
JJS Limited [United Kingdom]
Kaynar Technologies Ltd. [UK
KT International Sales Corporation [Barbados]
K.T.I. Femipari Kft [Hungary]
M&M Machine & Tool Co. [DE]
Mairoll, Inc.  [DE]
Marcliff Corporation [DE]
Marson Creative Fastener, Inc. [DE]
Matrix Aviation, Inc. [KS]
M??caero SNC [France]
Meow, Inc. [DE]
Nasam Incorporated [CA]
Northking Insurance Company Limited [Bermuda]
Plymouth Leasing Company [DE]
Professional Aircraft Accessories, Inc. [FL]
Professional Aviation Associates, Inc. [GA]
Quack Quack, Inc. [DE]
Recoil Australia Holdings, Inc. [DE]
Recoil (Europe) Ltd. [UK]
Recoil Holdings, Inc. [DE]
Recoil Inc. [DE]
Recoil Limited [Thailand]
Recoil Marketing BVBA [Belgium]
Recoil Pte. Ltd. [Singapore]
Recoil Pty. [Australia]
Recycling Investments II, Inc. [DE]
Recycling Investments, Inc. [DE]
RHI Holdings, Inc.[DE]
Rooster, Inc. (The) [DE]
SCI de La Praz [France]
Simmonds Mecaero Fasteners, Inc.[DE]
Simmonds S.A. [France]
Snails, Inc. [DE]
SNEP SA [France]
Soci??t?? Nouvelle DEB SA [France]
Sovereign Air Limited [DE]
Suchomimous Terensis, Inc. [DE]
Technico SA [France]
Transfix S.A. [France]
VSI Holdings, Inc. [DE]
Warthog, Inc. [DE]
WIS LP, Ltd. [Bermuda]

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>8
<TEXT>

2

              Amendment Dated as of May 21, 1999 To
           Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plans of
                    The Fairchild Corporation


The Fairchild Corporation (the "Corporation") has entered into
various stock option plans for its non-employee directors (the
"NED Plans").

Each NED Plan is hereby amended to add the following provisions:

 DEFERRAL OF COMPENSATION

1.   Defined Terms.

          1.1   "Award" means an award of stock options to a Non-
          Employee Director under the Corporation's NED Plans.

          1.2   "Committee"  means the full  Board  of  Directors
          (excluding the participation of Non-Employee Directors)
          or  a  committee of three of more Directors  (excluding
          Non-Employee Directors).

     1.3  "Deferral Date" means, in connection with any  Deferred
          Compensation  Unit,  the date  on  which  any  deferred
          compensation with respect thereto would have been  paid
          if no deferral election had been made.

     1.4  "Deferred  Compensation Plan" means  the  Corporation's
          Stock  Option Deferral Plan dated February 9, 1998  (as
          amended  from time to time).   Generally, participation
          in  the Deferred Compensation Plan shall be limited  to
          Executive   Officers  and  Directors  who  are   deemed
          "Accredited   Investors"  for   purposes   of   Federal
          Securities Laws.

     1.5  "Deferred Compensation Units" means the right of a Non-
          Employee  Director to receive distributions of deferred
          compensation pursuant to the Deferred Compensation Plan
          in  the  form of Shares, determined in accordance  with
          the  terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan  and  this
          Amendment  to  the  NED Plans, and based  on  the  Fair
          Market Value of Shares on the Deferral Date.

     1.6  "Dividend  Equivalents"  means  the  right  of  a  Non-
          Employee Director to receive Shares equal to:

          (i)  the per Share cash dividends declared by the
               Corporation from time to time,

          (ii)  multiplied by the number of Deferred Compensation
          Units credited to the account of the Non-Employee
          Director as of each applicable dividend record date,

          (iii)  divided by the Fair Market Value on the related
               dividend payment date.

     1.7  "Fair   Market  Value"  means  with  respect   to   the
          Corporation's Shares the closing price of the Shares as
          of  the date on which the value is to be determined, as
          reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite  Tape
          or  such other source of quotation for, or reports  of,
          trading  activity in Shares as the Committee  may  from
          time to time select.

     1.8  "NED Plans" means all of the Corporation's stock option
          plans  for Non-Employee Directors, including individual
          stock option awards to Non-Employee Directors.

     1.9  "Non-Employee Director" means any director of the
          Corporation who is not also an employee or executive
          officer of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries.

     1.10 "Shares"  means  shares  of the Corporation's  Class  A
          Common Stock.


2.   Deferred Compensation Units

     2.1  Granting of Deferred Compensation Units:  To the extent
          elected  by any Non-Employee Director and permitted  by
          the Deferred Compensation Plan, the Committee may award
          Deferred   Compensation  Units  to   any   Non-Employee
          Director in lieu of all or any portion of the gain that
          would  otherwise  be  recognized by  such  Non-Employee
          Director upon exercise of a stock option.  All Deferred
          Compensation  Units shall be subject to  the  terms  of
          this  Amendment  to  the  NED Plans  and  the  Deferred
          Compensation Plan.

     2.2  Effect  of  Grants:  The number of Shares distributable
          to  Non-Employee  Directors pursuant to  each  Deferred
          Compensation Unit shall be charged against the  maximum
          number  of  Shares of Common Stock that may  be  issued
          under  the NED Plans at any time.  The number of Shares
          distributable  to  Non-Employee Directors  pursuant  to
          Dividend  Equivalents shall not be charged against  the
          number of Shares issuable under the NED Plans.

     2.3  Accounting; Fractional Units:

     (a)  The  number of Deferred Compensation Units credited  to
          the  account  of  any Non-Employee  Director  shall  be
          rounded  to the nearest one-thousandth of a  Unit.  The
          account  to  which  Deferred  Compensation  Units   are
          credited  shall be an unsecured general  obligation  of
          the  Corporation. The Corporation will maintain records
          of  the  number of Deferred Compensation Units for  the
          account  of  each Non-Employee Director,  in  part,  to
          prevent an issuance of shares of Common Stock in excess
          of the authorized shares.

     (b)  Notwithstanding paragraph (a) above, upon  distribution
          of  any  Shares  represented by  Deferred  Compensation
          Units,  the number of shares shall be rounded  downward
          to  the  nearest  whole share and no fractional  shares
          shall  be issued. Fractional Units remaining after  the
          final  distribution to any Non-Employee Director  shall
          be  cancelled  without obligation to  the  Non-Employee
          Director.

     2.4  Exercise of Rights Under Awards:

     Shares  used  to pay the purchase price on the  exercise  of
     Awards subject to the Deferred Compensation Plan, shall have
     been  held by the Non-Employee Director for a period of  not
     less  than  six  months (or such longer  period  as  may  be
     required under the terms of the Award).

Except as amended hereby, the NED Plans shall remain in full
force and effect.

This Amendment to the NED Plans is effective as of May 21, 1999.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3
<SEQUENCE>9
<TEXT>


On February 12, 1999, the Board of Directors of The Fairchild
Corporation adopted resolutions amending and restating in their
entirety the provisions of the Corporation's Bylaws relative to
the Audit Committee as set forth below:
                          REVISIONS TO
             ARTICLE III, SECTIONS 11 THROUGH 13 OF
               THE AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS OF
                    THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION

    (UPDATING THE PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE)


                           ARTICLE III
                            Directors

                          *  *  *  *  *

                         Audit Committee

     Section 11.  General.

      (a)   Membership.   The corporation  shall  have  an  audit
committee  (the  "Audit Committee") comprised of at  least  three
members of the corporation's board of directors.  Each member  of
the  Audit  Committee shall be independent of  the  corporation's
management  and  shall be free from any relationship  that  would
interfere  with  the  exercise  of judgment  independent  of  the
corporation's management.

      (b)  Purpose.  The purpose of the Audit Committee shall  be
to assist the corporation's board of directors in discharging its
responsibilities  with respect to (1) the corporation's  internal
accounting, auditing and financial reporting controls,  policies,
procedures and practices (collectively, "Internal Controls"), and
(2) the corporation's independent public accountants.

      (c)  Appointment and Term.  The Chairman and each member of
the Audit Committee shall be appointed by the corporation's board
of  directors  to  serve  a  term of  one  year  or  until  their
successors have been duly appointed and assume office.

      (d)  Committee Meetings.  The Audit Committee shall hold at
least  four  regular  meetings each  year,  and  such  additional
meetings  as  the Chairman or a majority of the  members  of  the
Audit  Committee  may  deem necessary or  advisable.   The  Audit
Committee  may  require  the presence and  participation  of  any
officer   or  employee  of  the  corporation,  the  corporation's
internal  auditors,  or  the  corporation's  independent   public
accountants at any meeting of the Audit Committee.

     (e)  Minutes.  The Audit Committee shall prepare and approve
minutes  of its meetings, and such minutes shall be submitted  to
the  corporation's  board of directors  for  review  and  to  the
corporation's Secretary for inclusion in the corporation's minute
books.

     (f)  Reports of Actions.  The Audit Committee shall promptly
report  all  actions it has taken to the corporation's  board  of
directors for ratification.

     Section 12.    Responsibilities of the Audit Committee.

      (a)   Internal Controls.  The Audit Committee shall  review
the  actions taken by the corporation's management to ensure that
the  corporation adopts, maintains and adheres  to  a  system  of
Internal  Controls that provides reasonable assurances  that  (1)
all  transactions of the corporation are properly authorized  and
are  reflected  in the books and records of the corporation,  (2)
the  risk  of  financial  misconduct is minimized  and  any  such
misconduct is promptly detected and reported, (3) the corporation
is  able  to  prepare and publish financial statements  that  are
fairly presented, have been prepared in accordance with generally
accepted  accounting principles, and comply with  all  applicable
requirements,  and (4) the internal and external  audits  of  the
corporation   are  adequate  and  comply  with   all   applicable
requirements.   The  Audit  Committee  shall  review   with   the
corporation's  Chief  Financial Officer  and  independent  public
accountants  at least annually the adequacy and effectiveness  of
the corporation's Internal Controls.

     (b)  Financial Statements.  The Audit Committee shall review
the   corporation's  published  financial  statements,  including
without  limitation  (1)  any  unusual  or  non-recurring   items
therein, (2) the accounting principles applied therein,  (3)  any
changes  in  previously applied accounting  principles,  and  (4)
management's   report   accompanying  the  corporation's   annual
financial statements included in the corporation's Annual  Report
to Shareholders.

      (c)  Internal Audit.  The Audit Committee shall review  (1)
the  corporation's internal audit plans with management  and  the
corporation's independent public accountants (which review  shall
be  conducted  at least annually), (2) management's  appointment,
replacement,  reassignment  or  dismissal  of  the  corporation's
internal  auditors,  (3) the progress and  key  findings  of  the
corporation's internal audits, (4) the compensation paid  by  the
corporation  to  its internal auditors for all services  rendered
(which  review  shall be conducted at least  annually),  (5)  all
reports,  criticisms, problems, issues, recommendations or  other
matters   submitted  or  raised  by  the  corporation's  internal
auditors, and management's responses, actions and follow-up  with
respect thereto, and (6) all disagreements between management and
the corporation's internal auditors.

      (d)   Independent Public Accountants.  The Audit  Committee
shall  annually  review  (1)  management's  recommendation   with
respect to the selection of the corporation's independent  public
accountants, and provide to the corporation's board of  directors
a recommendation with respect to such selection, (2) the scope of
the   corporation's  annual  examination  and  audit   with   the
corporation's  independent public accountants,  (3)  management's
evaluation  of the independence of the corporation's  independent
public   accountants,  (4)  the  letter  from  the  corporation's
independent public accountants with respect to their independence
from  the corporation's management and their unrestricted  access
to  the  Audit  Committee, (5) the report from the  corporation's
independent public accountants with respect to the services  that
they  have provided to the corporation and other related matters,
(6)  the  compensation paid by the corporation to its independent
public  accountants for all services rendered, (7)  all  reports,
criticisms,  problems, issues, recommendations or  other  matters
submitted  or  raised  by  the corporation's  independent  public
accountants,  and management's responses, actions  and  follow-up
with   respect   thereto,  and  (8)  all  disagreements   between
management and the corporation's independent public accounts.

      (e)   Second  Opinions.  The Audit Committee  shall  review
decisions  by management to obtain second opinions on significant
accounting issues and any actions taken by management in reliance
on such opinions.

      (f)   Meetings.  The Audit Committee shall  meet  at  least
annually  with  (1)  appropriate officers and  employees  of  the
corporation to discuss tax matters affecting the corporation, and
(2)  in-house  counsel  to discuss legal  matters  affecting  the
corporation.

      Section 13.    Independent Public Accountants.  In order to
ensure  that  the  Audit Committee receives all  the  information
necessary  to carry out its responsibilities, the Audit Committee
shall   request,  at  least  annually,  confirmation   from   the
corporation's  independent  public  accountants  that  they  have
informed  the Audit Committee as to (a) the initial selection  of
and   changes  in  significant  accounting  policies  and   their
application,  (b)  the  process  used  in  formulating  sensitive
accounting estimates, (c) adjustments proposed by the auditor but
not recorded by the corporation that could cause future financial
statements  to  be  materially misstated, (d) disagreements  with
management and whether or not satisfactorily resolved, (e)  cases
when  management consulted with other accountants about  auditing
and   accounting   matters,  (f)  difficulties   encountered   in
performing  the  annual  audit, and  (g)  any  other  significant
Internal Control or financial reporting matter.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>10
<TEXT>

                              - 4 -
               TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
                          LEROY A. DACK

                         April 16, 1999

       This  will  confirm  the  terms  and  conditions  of  your
employment  with  Fairchild Fasteners, a  division  of  Fairchild
Holding Corp., a subsidiary of The Fairchild Corporation.

Commencement   The    first    date   following   The   Fairchild
               Corporation's acquisition of Kaynar
Date:                    Technologies Inc.

Position:            Your  position will be Senior Vice President
               and  Chief  Operating Officer, U.S. Operations  of
               Fairchild Fasteners.

Duties:                    You  shall  report  to  Eric  Steiner,
               President of Fairchild Fasteners, and perform such
               duties and assume such responsibilities as may  be
               consistent with your position and as the President
               of  Fairchild Fasteners or the Board of  Directors
               of  The  Fairchild Corporation may determine  from
               time to time.

                          You agree to devote  substantially  all
               of  your  time, energy and ability to the business
               of  Fairchild Fasteners.  However, you  may,  upon
               approval  of the President of Fairchild Fasteners,
               serve   as   a  director  or  trustee   of   other
               corporations or businesses, provided that they are
               not  in competition with the business of Fairchild
               Fasteners   or  any  affiliate  of  The  Fairchild
               Corporation,  and provided that your service  does
               not  materially  interfere  with  your  duties  to
               Fairchild Fasteners.

Base Salary:        Your base salary ("Base Salary") will be at a
               rate  not  less  than $195,000 per  year,  payable
               weekly  in  accordance  with Fairchild  Fasteners'
               usual payroll policies.

Performance Bonus:   You will be eligible to participate  in  the
               Fairchild  Fasteners Executive  Bonus  Plan  at  a
               target  bonus of 90% of your Base Salary  ("Target
               Bonus").  The Fairchild Fasteners Executive  Bonus
               Plan is a performance-based incentive program that
               provides a yearly payout equal to the target  rate
               when  specified financial and personal  goals  are
               met.  The plan, and its targets and goals, may  be
               modified,  increased, reduced or  terminated  from
               time  to time and at any time by Compensation  and
               Stock  Option Committee of the Board of  Directors
               of The Fairchild Corporation.

Stock Options:       You will be eligible for consideration under
               The Fairchild Corporation's 1986 Non-Qualified and
               Incentive  Stock Option Plan, as  amended.   Stock
               options are granted on a discretionary basis under
               this  plan,  and you will be eligible  to  receive
               stock   options   as   deemed  appropriate.    The
               President of Fairchild Fasteners will recommend to
               the Compensation and Stock Option Committee of the
               Board  of  Directors of The Fairchild  Corporation
               that  you  be  awarded during your first  year  of
               employment with Fairchild Fasteners an  option  to
               purchase  up  to  10,000 shares of  The  Fairchild
               Corporation's common stock.

Housing:             Fairchild Fasteners will provide you with an
               apartment  located near its executive  offices  in
               Torrance, California, to be reasonably agreed upon
               by  Fairchild  Fasteners and you, for  up  to  one
               year.

Relocation:          If  you  relocate your household to an  area
               near  Fairchild  Fasteners' executive  offices  in
               Torrance,  California  within  one  year  of  your
               commencement   of   employment   with    Fairchild
               Fasteners, Fairchild Fasteners will reimburse  you
               for   reasonable  expenses  you   may   incur   in
               connection with the relocation, in accordance with
               Fairchild Fasteners' relocation policy.

Company Car:         Fairchild  Fasteners will provide  you  with
               $950  per month in lieu of a company car, and will
               reimburse  you  for reasonable  expenses  you  may
               incur  in  connection with its  use  for  business
               purposes,  in accordance with Fairchild Fastener's
               applicable policies and procedures

Business Expenses:   Fairchild Fasteners will reimburse  you  for
               reasonable business-related expenses that you  may
               incur  in connection with the performance of  your
               duties to Fairchild Fasteners, in accordance  with
               Fairchild   Fasteners'  applicable  policies   and
               procedures.

Vacation:            Vacation  will accrue based on the  date  of
               your  hire  by  Kaynar Technologies Inc.  and  its
               affiliates,    in   accordance   with    Fairchild
               Fasteners' vacation policies and procedures.

Other Benefits:           You will be eligible to participate  in
               all   of  the  employee  benefit  plans  generally
               available  to  employees  of  Fairchild  Fasteners
               under  its Flexible Benefits Program, all on terms
               and   conditions   commensurate   with   executive
               officers  of  Fairchild Fasteners at  your  level.
               These  employee benefit plans include sick  leave,
               group health and dental insurance plans, a pension
               plan,   a  retiree  medical  plan,  a  long   term
               disability plan, a savings (401(k)) plan, and life
               insurance.  You will receive credit for your prior
               service  with  Kaynar Technologies  Inc.  and  its
               affiliates for purposes of determining vesting  of
               benefits  under  Fairchild Fasteners'  401(k)  and
               pension  plans.  You will not receive  credit  for
               your  prior service with Kaynar Technologies  Inc.
               and its affiliates for purposes of calculating the
               amount  of  benefits under any  pension  or  post-
               retirement medical plan.

Physical Exam: Fairchild Fasteners' offer of employment to you is
               subject  to  your passing a company paid  physical
               examination,  including drug and alcohol  testing,
               within   one   month  of  your   commencement   of
               employment with Fairchild Fasteners.

At Will Employment: You acknowledge and understand that Fairchild
               Fasteners  is  an  At  Will  employer,   and   you
               acknowledge  and  agree that your  employment  may
               therefore be terminated at any time for any reason
               by you or Fairchild.

Termination:          If   Fairchild  Fasteners  terminates  your
               employment  for  any reason other than  Cause  (as
               defined  below), or you terminate your  employment
               for  Good Reason (as defined below), you shall  be
               entitled  to receive a lump-sum severance  payment
               equal  to six months of your Base Salary  plus  50
               percent  (50%)  of your Target Bonus,  subject  to
               normal withholding amounts.
Cause:                    Cause means any of the following:   (i)
               conduct,  at any time, which has involved criminal
               dishonesty,   conviction   of   any   felony,   or
               conviction   of  any  lesser  crime   or   offense
               involving the property of Fairchild Fasteners,  or
               any   of  its  subsidiaries  or  affiliates,  (ii)
               significant    conflict   of    interest,    (iii)
               misappropriation of any money or other  assets  or
               properties of Fairchild Fasteners, or that of  its
               subsidiaries or affiliates, (iv) willful violation
               in  any  material respect of specific and  written
               lawful  directions from the President of Fairchild
               Fasteners  or  the  Board  of  Directors  of   The
               Fairchild Corporation that are consistent with and
               clearly  within  the duties of  your  office,  (v)
               willful   misconduct   or  gross   negligence   in
               connection  with the performance of  any  of  your
               material duties, (vi) chronic alcoholism  or  drug
               addiction,  (vii) any other acts or conduct  which
               would   constitute  a  material  breach  of   your
               obligations   to   Fairchild  Fasteners   or   The
               Fairchild   Corporation,  and  which   breach   is
               injurious  to Fairchild Fasteners or The Fairchild
               Corporation,  and  (viii)  your  death,  or   your
               disability   as  defined  pursuant  to   Fairchild
               Fasteners' Long-Term Disability Plan.

Good Reason:         Good Reason means any of the following:  (i)
               a  reduction in your Base Salary, (ii) a  material
               reduction in your employee benefits, or (iii)  any
               requirement  that  you permanently  relocate  your
               office from Fairchild Fasteners' executive offices
               in  Torrance,  California, except  for  an  office
               relocation  that  will not increase  your  one-way
               commuting  distance from such office by more  than
               50 miles, unless we offer to relocate you on terms
               similar to those set forth herein.

No Other Agreement:   You  represent  and  warrant  to  Fairchild
               Fasteners that you have no covenant, agreement  or
               understanding with, or obligation to, anyone  else
               which  would  be  breached by this  Agreement,  or
               which  would  subject Fairchild Fasteners  or  The
               Fairchild Corporation to any liability as a result
               of hiring and utilizing your services.

Other Agreements:     You  shall  enter  into  a  Confidentiality
               Agreement,   a  Non-Compete  Agreement,   and   an
               Agreement to Assign to Fairchild Fasteners and The
               Fairchild Corporation all inventions and  designs,
               whether  patentable or not, conceived or  improved
               by  you  during  your  employment  with  Fairchild
               Fasteners.

Governing Law: Our  understandings regarding your employment with
               Fairchild   Fasteners   shall   be   governed   by
               applicable federal law and the laws of  the  State
               of  California, and all disputes relating  to  the
               terms of your employment set forth herein shall be
               resolved   in  any  state  or  federal  court   of
               competent jurisdiction in the State of California.

Entire Agreement:    These terms supersede all prior negotiations
               and represent the entire agreement of the parties,
               and our signatures hereon will bind us hereto.

                        *   *   *   *   *

      If  you agree to employment with Fairchild Fasteners on the
terms set forth in this memorandum, please sign and return a copy
to me.

                    FAIRCHILD FASTENERS,
                    a Division of Fairchild Holding Corp.



                    By:  _______________________________________
                         Eric I. Steiner,    President
                         Fairchild Holding Corp.


ACCEPTED AND AGREED TO BY
LEROY A. DACK AS OF THE DATE
FIRST ABOVE WRITTEN:


_____________________________
Leroy A. Dack

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>11
<TEXT>

                              - 3 -
               TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
                          JORDAN A. LAW

                         April 20, 1999

       This  will  confirm  the  terms  and  conditions  of  your
employment  with  Fairchild Fasteners, a  division  of  Fairchild
Holding Corp., a subsidiary of The Fairchild Corporation.

Term:                    Your employment with Fairchild Fasteners
               shall  commence  on the first date  following  The
               Fairchild  Corporation's  acquisition  of   Kaynar
               Technologies Inc. and shall terminate on June  30,
               2000,   unless  terminated  earlier  by  Fairchild
               Fasteners for Cause (as defined below).

Position:            Your  position will be Senior Vice President
               of Fairchild Fasteners.

Duties:                    You  shall  report  to  Eric  Steiner,
               President of Fairchild Fasteners, and perform such
               duties and assume such responsibilities as may  be
               consistent with your position and as the President
               of  Fairchild Fasteners or the Board of  Directors
               of  The  Fairchild Corporation may determine  from
               time to time.

                          You agree to devote  substantially  all
               of  your  time, energy and ability to the business
               of  Fairchild Fasteners.  However, you  may,  upon
               approval  of the President of Fairchild Fasteners,
               serve   as   a  director  or  trustee   of   other
               corporations or businesses, provided that they are
               not  in competition with the business of Fairchild
               Fasteners   or  any  affiliate  of  The  Fairchild
               Corporation,  and provided that your service  does
               not  materially  interfere  with  your  duties  to
               Fairchild Fasteners.

Base Salary:        Your base salary ("Base Salary") will be at a
               rate  not  less  than $285,000 per  year,  payable
               weekly  in  accordance  with Fairchild  Fasteners'
               usual payroll policies.

Signing Bonus: Promptly after the commencement of your employment
               with  Fairchild  Fasteners,  you  will  receive  a
               signing bonus of $80,000.

Fiscal 1999 Bonus:   No  later than September 15, 1999, Fairchild
               Fasteners shall pay you a bonus of no less than $-
               108,000 for the Fiscal Year ending June 30, 1999.

Fiscal 2000 Bonus:    You   shall  be  eligible  to   receive   a
               performance bonus for the Fiscal Year ending  June
               30, 2000, based on (1) cost savings to be achieved
               from  the  integration of Fairchild Fasteners  and
               Kaynar  Technologies Inc., and (2)  a  formula  or
               criteria  to  be  mutually  agreed  upon  by   the
               President of Fairchild Fasteners and you.

Company Car:         Fairchild  Fasteners will provide  you  with
               $950  per month in lieu of a company car, and will
               reimburse  you  for reasonable  expenses  you  may
               incur  in  connection with its  use  for  business
               purposes,  in accordance with Fairchild Fastener's
               applicable policies and procedures

Business Expenses:   Fairchild Fasteners will reimburse  you  for
               reasonable business-related expenses that you  may
               incur  in connection with the performance of  your
               duties to Fairchild Fasteners, in accordance  with
               Fairchild   Fasteners'  applicable  policies   and
               procedures.

Vacation:            Vacation  will accrue based on the  date  of
               your  hire  by  Kaynar Technologies Inc.  and  its
               affiliates,    in   accordance   with    Fairchild
               Fasteners' vacation policies and procedures.

Other Benefits:           You will be eligible to participate  in
               all   of  the  employee  benefit  plans  generally
               available  to  employees  of  Fairchild  Fasteners
               under  its Flexible Benefits Program, all on terms
               and   conditions   commensurate   with   executive
               officers  of  Fairchild Fasteners at  your  level.
               These  employee benefit plans include sick  leave,
               group health and dental insurance plans, a pension
               plan,   a  retiree  medical  plan,  a  long   term
               disability plan, a savings (401(k)) plan, and life
               insurance.  You will receive credit for your prior
               service  with  Kaynar Technologies  Inc.  and  its
               affiliates for purposes of determining vesting  of
               benefits  under  Fairchild Fasteners'  401(k)  and
               pension  plans.  You will not receive  credit  for
               your  prior service with Kaynar Technologies  Inc.
               and its affiliates for purposes of calculating the
               amount  of  benefits under any  pension  or  post-
               retirement medical plan.

Cause:                    Cause means any of the following:   (i)
               conduct,  at any time, which has involved criminal
               dishonesty,   conviction   of   any   felony,   or
               conviction   of  any  lesser  crime   or   offense
               involving the property of Fairchild Fasteners,  or
               any   of  its  subsidiaries  or  affiliates,  (ii)
               significant    conflict   of    interest,    (iii)
               misappropriation of any money or other  assets  or
               properties of Fairchild Fasteners, or that of  its
               subsidiaries or affiliates, (iv) willful violation
               in  any  material respect of specific and  written
               lawful  directions from the President of Fairchild
               Fasteners  or  the  Board  of  Directors  of   The
               Fairchild Corporation that are consistent with and
               clearly  within  the duties of  your  office,  (v)
               willful   misconduct   or  gross   negligence   in
               connection  with the performance of  any  of  your
               material duties, (vi) chronic alcoholism  or  drug
               addiction,  (vii) any other acts or conduct  which
               would   constitute  a  material  breach  of   your
               obligations   to   Fairchild  Fasteners   or   The
               Fairchild   Corporation,  and  which   breach   is
               injurious  to Fairchild Fasteners or The Fairchild
               Corporation,  and  (viii)  your  death,  or   your
               disability   as  defined  pursuant  to   Fairchild
               Fasteners' Long-Term Disability Plan.

No Other Agreement:   You  represent  and  warrant  to  Fairchild
               Fasteners that you have no covenant, agreement  or
               understanding with, or obligation to, anyone  else
               which  would  be  breached by this  Agreement,  or
               which  would  subject Fairchild Fasteners  or  The
               Fairchild Corporation to any liability as a result
               of hiring and utilizing your services.

Other Agreements:     You  shall  enter  into  a  Confidentiality
               Agreement,   a  Non-Compete  Agreement,   and   an
               Agreement to Assign to Fairchild Fasteners and The
               Fairchild Corporation all inventions and  designs,
               whether  patentable or not, conceived or  improved
               by  you  during  your  employment  with  Fairchild
               Fasteners.

Governing Law: Our  understandings regarding your employment with
               Fairchild   Fasteners   shall   be   governed   by
               applicable federal law and the laws of  the  State
               of  California, and all disputes relating  to  the
               terms of your employment set forth herein shall be
               resolved   in  any  state  or  federal  court   of
               competent jurisdiction in the State of California.

Entire Agreement:    These terms supersede all prior negotiations
               and represent the entire agreement of the parties,
               and our signatures hereon will bind us hereto.

                        *   *   *   *   *

      If  you agree to employment with Fairchild Fasteners on the
terms set forth in this memorandum, please sign and return a copy
to me.

                    FAIRCHILD FASTENERS,
                    a Division of Fairchild Holding Corp.



                    By:  _______________________________________
                         Eric I. Steiner,    President
                         Fairchild Holding Corp.


ACCEPTED AND AGREED TO BY
JORDAN A. LAW AS OF THE DATE
FIRST ABOVE WRITTEN:


_____________________________
Jordan A. Law

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>12
<TEXT>

                             A 4
                  THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION
                     OFFICER LOAN PLAN??


The  Fairchild  Corporation,  a  Delaware  corporation  (the
"Company"),  hereby  adopts the  following  loan  plan  (the
"Plan") for executive officers of the Company and presidents
or  other  senior executive officers of operating  divisions
("Executive Officers"):

1.   Objective.

     The  objective  of  the Plan is to  provide  additional
     incentive  to  Executive  Officers  by  granting  loans
     ("Loans") to such persons, the proceeds of which are to
     be  used  by  such  persons for  the  sole  purpose  of
     purchasing  Class  A  Common  Stock  of  The  Fairchild
     Corporation  ("Common Stock") in the open market.   The
     acquisition  of Common Stock with Loans is intended  to
     (i)   provide  an  increased  incentive  for  Executive
     Officers to exert their best efforts on behalf  of  the
     Company, (ii) strengthen the ability of the Company  to
     recruit and retain those persons possessing outstanding
     competence  and the ability to contribute significantly
     to  the  Company's success, (iii) award those Executive
     Officers who have made significant contributions to the
     Company  in  the  past, and (iv) further  identify  the
     interests of such Executive Officers with those of  the
     Company  and its stockholders by increasing the  desire
     of such officers to maximize the value of the Company.

2.   Definitions.

     2.1  "Acceptance Date" means the date when a Participant
          accepts the offer by the Company to loan the Participant the
          purchase price to purchase Shares in the open market.

     2.2   "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company
          provided that if any action taken by the Board relates to a
          Participant who is a director of the Company, the majority
          of  the  directors approving such action shall  be
          disinterested directors.

     2.3  "Committee" means the Compensation and Stock Option
          Committee of the Board.  The Committee shall consist of
          three or more of the members of the Board, all of whom shall
          be Non-Employee Directors (as that term is defined in Rule
          16b-3 of the General Rules and Regulations promulgated under
          the Exchange Act.

     2.4  "Common Stock" means shares of Class A Common Stock of
          The Fairchild Corporation.

     2.5  "Effective Date of the Plan" is defined under Section
          11 hereof.

     2.6  "Exchange Act" means the Securities and Exchange Act of
          1934 as amended.

     2.7  "Loan" means a loan made to a Participant to purchase
          Shares under the Plan.

     2.8  "Loan Availability Period" means the following two
          periods:

          (a)  Up to $750,000 in Loans will be available for
               a  period of ten (10) days, commencing on the
               Effective  Date  and  ending  ten  (10)  days
               thereafter.  Such period may be  extended  or
               renewed   by  the  Committee  in   its   sole
               discretion.

          (b)  The  balance  of  funds available  for  Loans
               under  this Plan shall not be available until
               after the Company's senior lender consents to
               such  Loans.   The Committee shall  determine
               the Loan Availability Period for such balance
               after such consent is obtained.

     2.9  "Participant" means any executive officer  of  the
          Company or any president or other senior executive officer
          of an operating division who has accepted to receive a Loan
          pursuant to this Plan for the purpose of purchasing Shares
          in the open market.

     2.10 "Shares" means shares of Common Stock purchased by a
          Participant pursuant to the Plan.


3.   Eligibility.

     Participation in the Plan shall be limited to executive
     officers of the Company and presidents or other  senior
     executive  officers of significant operating divisions.
     All  Participants  shall  be required  to  complete  an
     "accredited  investor  questionnaire,"  or  such  other
     documents as the Company may require to establish  that
     such Participants are aware of the risks of investment,
     and   to   comply  with  applicable  private  placement
     exemptions.

     Participation  in  the  Plan shall  be  limited  to  15
     persons, aggregate.

     Participants shall be designated by the Board from time
     to time upon the recommendation of the Committee.

     Eligibility confers no vested right to the grant of any
     Loans under this Plan.

4.   Grant of Loans.

     During the Loan Availability Period, the Committee  may
     make  recommendations  to  the  Board  concerning   the
     granting of Loans under the Plan to Participants.   The
     Board will meet to consider the recommendations of  the
     Committee  (or will act by written consent in  lieu  of
     such a meeting) and will make a final determination  as
     to   the   granting  of  Loans  under   the   Plan   to
     Participants.  The Board's determination may vary  from
     the  Committee's  recommendations  and  the  Board  may
     choose to make no Loans at all.  Immediately after  the
     action   of  the  Board,  the  Committee  will   notify
     individuals  to  whom the Loans have been  granted  and
     will permit such Participants to borrow money upon  the
     execution  and  delivery  of a  Loan  Agreement  and  a
     Promissory Note (as defined in Paragraph 5 herein).

5.   Terms of Loans.

     The  Company shall make a Loan to a Participant  in  an
     amount  not  to   exceed $100,000 per Participant,  for
     100%  of  the purchase price for Shares to be purchased
     by a Participant during the Loan Availability Period.

     Each  Loan  will  be made pursuant  to  the  terms  and
     conditions  of a loan agreement (the "Loan  Agreement")
     in  form  and  substance acceptable to the Company  and
     evidenced by a promissory note (the "Note") in form and
     substance acceptable to the Company.  No funds will  be
     advanced   until  the  Participant  has  executed   and
     delivered copies of such Loan Agreement and Note to the
     Committee.

     Each  Note shall be payable thirty (30) days after  the
     Company  makes  demand for payment  and  will  be  non-
     interest  bearing.  The Board will have sole discretion
     concerning when demand for payment of the Loans will be
     made,   but  the  Board  will  consider  the  following
     factors:

     A.   Whether the Company's needs for cash flow or financing
       make the calling  of the Loans advisable.

     B.   Whether the Participant has terminated  employment with
       the Company, and

     C.    Whether the Participant is able to repay the Loan
       without undue difficulty.

     Upon  direction from the Board, the Committee will make
     demand  for  payment and will seek to collect  on  each
     Loan  not later than five (5) years from the date funds
     are advanced under such Loan.

6.   Conditions to Loans.

     As  a  condition  to the granting  of  any  Loan  to  a
     Participant,   the  Participant  shall  represent   and
     warrant that he/she shall use the proceeds for the sole
     purpose  of  purchasing Shares.  The Board may  require
     the  Participant to execute and deliver to the  Company
     any     appropriate     or    necessary     agreements,
     representations, or documents in this regard.

7.   Limitation on Loans.

     The total amount of Loans outstanding at any time under
     this  Plan and at any time during the term of this Plan
     will  not  exceed  $1,000,000, of  which:   (a)  Up  to
     $750,000  shall be available on the date of this  Plan,
     and  (b)  the  balance  shall be  available  after  the
     Company's senior lender consents to such Loans.

8.     Term of Plan.

     This  Plan  will be effective until December 31,  2003.
     Determination of when demand for payment of  the  Loans
     will  be  made will be vested in the Board (subject  to
     the restriction that all Loans must be paid within five
     (5)  years  from  the date funds are advanced,  as  set
     forth in Paragraph 5 above).

9.     Disinterested Persons.

     All  actions  by the Committee regarding a  Loan  to  a
     member  of  the  Committee will be  taken  without  the
     participation of the Committee member and  all  actions
     by  the Board regarding a Loan to a member of the Board
     will  be  taken without the participation of the  Board
     member,  but the Committee member and the Board member,
     respectively, may be counted for purposes of a quorum.

10.    Administration.

     The  Plan  will be administered by the Board  upon  the
     recommendations of the Committee.

11.    Effective Date of Plan.

     The "Effective Date" of this Plan shall be February  5,
     1999.

     -----------------------

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>13
<TEXT>





                    THE FAIRCHILD CORPORATION
                 DIRECTOR AND OFFICER LOAN PLAN
                      Dated August 12, 1999

The   Fairchild   Corporation,  a   Delaware   corporation   (the
"Company"),  hereby adopts the following loan plan  (the  "Plan")
for  non-employee directors and executive officers of the Company
and  presidents or other senior executive officers  of  operating
divisions ("Participants"):

1.   Objective.

     The objective of the Plan is to provide additional incentive
     to Participants by granting loans ("Loans") to such persons,
     the proceeds of which are to be used by such persons for the
     sole  purpose  of  purchasing Class A Common  Stock  of  The
     Fairchild  Corporation ("Common Stock") in the open  market.
     The  acquisition of Common Stock with Loans is  intended  to
     (i) provide an increased incentive for Participants to exert
     their best efforts on behalf of the Company, (ii) strengthen
     the  ability  of  the Company to recruit  and  retain  those
     persons possessing outstanding competence and the ability to
     contribute  significantly  to the Company's  success,  (iii)
     award   those   Participants  who  have   made   significant
     contributions to the Company in the past, and  (iv)  further
     identify  the interests of such Participants with  those  of
     the Company and its stockholders by increasing the desire of
     such officers to maximize the value of the Company.

2.   Definitions.

     2.1  "Acceptance Date" means the date when a Participant accepts
          the offer by the Company to loan the Participant the purchase
          price to purchase Shares in the open market.

     2.2    "Board"  means the Board of Directors of the  Company
          provided that if any action taken by the Board relates to a
          Participant who is a director of the Company, the majority of the
          directors approving such action shall be disinterested directors.

     2.3  "Committee"  means the Compensation  and  Stock  Option
          Committee of the Board.  The Committee shall consist of three or
          more of the members of the Board, all of whom shall be Non-
          Employee Directors (as that term is defined in Rule 16b-3 of the
          General Rules and Regulations promulgated under the Exchange
          Act).

     2.4  "Common Stock" means shares of Class A Common Stock of The
          Fairchild Corporation.

     2.5  "Effective Date of the Plan" is defined under Section 11
          hereof.

     2.6  "Exchange Act" means the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934
          as amended.

     2.7  "Loan" means a loan made to a Participant to purchase Shares
          under the Plan.  Funds for all loans must be exclusively from
          Fairchild Technologies USA, Inc.

     2.8  "Loan Availability Period" means the one-year period in
          which  Loans  will  be  available,  commencing  on  the
          Effective  Date  and ending one year  thereafter.  Such
          period  may be extended or renewed by the Committee  in
          its sole discretion.

     2.9  "Participant" means any non-employee director  and  any
          executive  officer of the Company or any  president  or
          other senior executive officer of an operating division
          who  has  accepted to receive a Loan pursuant  to  this
          Plan  for the purpose of purchasing Shares in the  open
          market.

     2.10  "Shares" means shares of Common Stock purchased  by  a
     Participant pursuant
          to the Plan.

3.   Eligibility.

     Participation  in the Plan shall be limited to  non-employee
     directors   and  executive  officers  of  the  Company   and
     presidents or other senior executive officers of significant
     operating divisions.  All Participants shall be required  to
     complete  an  "accredited investor questionnaire,"  or  such
     other documents as the Company may require to establish that
     such Participants are aware of the risks of investment,  and
     to comply with applicable private placement exemptions.

     Participation  in the Plan shall be limited to  15  persons,
     aggregate.

     Participants shall be designated by the Board from  time  to
     time upon the recommendation of the Committee.

     Eligibility  confers no vested right to  the  grant  of  any
     Loans under this Plan.

4.   Grant of Loans.

     During the Loan Availability Period, the Committee may  make
     recommendations  to  the Board concerning  the  granting  of
     Loans  under the Plan to Participants.  The Board will  meet
     to  consider the recommendations of the Committee  (or  will
     act  by written consent in lieu of such a meeting) and  will
     make a final determination as to the granting of Loans under
     the  Plan  to  Participants.  The Board's determination  may
     vary from the Committee's recommendations and the Board  may
     choose  to  make  no  Loans at all.  Immediately  after  the
     action  of  the Board, the Committee will notify individuals
     to  whom  the  Loans have been granted and will permit  such
     Participants to borrow money upon the execution and delivery
     of  a  Loan  Agreement and a Promissory Note (as defined  in
     Paragraph 5 herein).

5.   Terms of Loans.

     The Company shall cause Fairchild Technologies USA, Inc.  to
     make  a  Loan to a Participant in an amount not  to   exceed
     $100,000 per Participant, for 100% of the purchase price for
     Shares  to  be  purchased by a Participant during  the  Loan
     Availability Period.

     Each  Loan will be made pursuant to the terms and conditions
     of  a  loan  agreement (the "Loan Agreement")  in  form  and
     substance   acceptable   to  the   Company   and   Fairchild
     Technologies  USA, Inc. and evidenced by a  promissory  note
     (the "Note") in form and substance acceptable to the Company
     and  Fairchild  Technologies USA, Inc.   No  funds  will  be
     advanced  until the Participant has executed  and  delivered
     copies of such Loan Agreement and Note to the Committee.

     Each  Note  shall  be  payable thirty (30)  days  after  the
     Company or Fairchild Technologies USA, Inc. makes demand for
     payment  and will be non-interest bearing.  The  Board  will
     have  sole discretion concerning when demand for payment  of
     the  Loans  will  be made, but the Board will  consider  the
     following factors:

     A.   Whether the Company's needs for cash flow or financing make
       the calling  of the Loans advisable.

     B.   Whether the Participant has terminated service with the
       Company, and

     C.   Whether the Participant is able to repay the Loan without
       undue difficulty.

     Upon  direction  from  the Board, the  Committee  will  make
     demand for payment and will seek to collect on each Loan not
     later  than five (5) years from the date funds are  advanced
     under such Loan.

6.   Conditions to Loans.

     As a condition to the granting of any Loan to a Participant,
     the  Participant  shall represent and  warrant  that  he/she
     shall  use  the proceeds for the sole purpose of  purchasing
     Shares.   The Board may require the Participant  to  execute
     and  deliver  to the Company  any appropriate  or  necessary
     agreements, representations, or documents in this regard.

7.   Limitation on Loans.

     The total amount of Loans outstanding at any time under this
     Plan  and at any time during the term of this Plan will  not
     exceed $2,000,000.

8.     Term of Plan.

     This  Plan  will  be  effective  until  December  31,  2004.
     Determination of when demand for payment of  the Loans  will
     be  made  will  be  vested  in the  Board  (subject  to  the
     restriction  that  all Loans must be paid  within  five  (5)
     years  from  the date funds are advanced, as  set  forth  in
     Paragraph 5 above).

9.     Disinterested Persons.

     All actions by the Committee regarding a Loan to a member of
     the Committee will be taken without the participation of the
     Committee  member and all actions by the Board  regarding  a
     Loan  to  a  member of the Board will be taken  without  the
     participation of the Board member, but the Committee  member
     and  the  Board  member, respectively, may  be  counted  for
     purposes of a quorum.

10.    Administration.

     The  Plan  will  be  administered  by  the  Board  upon  the
     recommendations of the Committee.

11.    Effective Date of Plan.

     The "Effective Date" of this Plan shall be August 12, 1999

                     -----------------------

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>14
<TEXT>



To the Board of Directors
of Nacanco Paketleme Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S


28 September 1999

We  hereby  consent  to the incorporation by  reference  in  this
Annual  Report on Form 10-K of The Fairchild Corporation  of  our
report  dated  12  February 1999 on the audit  of  the  financial
statements of Nacanco Paketleme Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S.  appearing
in  The Fairchild Corporation Current Report on Form 8-K dated 25
June 1999.

Regards



Zeynep Uras, SMMM
Partner
PricewaterhouseCoopers

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
