-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 JNKvWuhKHXstw1aZ7PPGRpQ8tdzmAxAt2t+v/NjaHG8l2Imfu6p9ZoGEwVTzMoz+
 mMNrxzne+4KmapNAoiOgSg==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000912057-00-011289.txt : 20000314
<SEC-HEADER>0000912057-00-011289.hdr.sgml : 20000314
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000912057-00-011289
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19991231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20000313

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ARGOSY GAMING CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895385
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES [7900]
		IRS NUMBER:				371304247
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11853
		FILM NUMBER:		568221

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		219 PIASA ST
		CITY:			ALTON
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			62002
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6184747500

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		219 PIASA STREET
		CITY:			ALTON
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			62002
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED: DECEMBER 31, 1999
                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 0-21122

                            ------------------------

                             ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY

             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

<TABLE>
<S>                                       <C>
                DELAWARE
    (State or other jurisdiction of                     37-1304247
     incorporation or organization)        (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

   219 PIASA STREET, ALTON, ILLINOIS                       62002
(Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip code)
</TABLE>

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (618) 474-7500
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 NAME OF EACH
                                                                   EXCHANGE
TITLE OF EACH CLASS                                           ON WHICH REGISTERED
- -------------------                                           -------------------
<S>                                                           <C>
13 1/4% First Mortgage Notes due 2004                               New York
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share                              New York
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:             None
</TABLE>

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /X/  No / /

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. / /

    As of March 8, 2000, the aggregate market value of the registrant's Common
Stock held by non-affiliates was $239,598,211. The closing price of the Common
Stock on March 8, 2000 as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, was $11.50.

    As of March 8, 2000, the number of shares outstanding of the registrant's
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, was 28,346,604.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Certain sections of the registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, and of the registrant's Notice of Annual
Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on April 18, 2000 as described in the Cross Reference
Sheet and a Table of Contents included herewith, are incorporated herein by
reference into Parts II and III of this Report.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
                             CROSS REFERENCE SHEET
                                      AND
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         PAGE REFERENCE
                                                                        OR REFERENCE (1)
                                                                        ----------------
<S>       <C>                                                           <C>
                                PART I
ITEM 1.   BUSINESS....................................................            1
ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES..................................................           26
ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS...........................................           27
ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.........           30

                               PART II
ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
          STOCKHOLDER MATTERS(2)......................................           31
ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.....................................           31
ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
          AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (3)...............................           31
ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (4).............           31
ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
          AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE....................................          101

                               PART III
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT (5)......          101
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (6)..................................          101
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
          MANAGEMENT (7)..............................................          101
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS (6)..........          101

                               PART IV
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM
          8-K.........................................................          102
</TABLE>

- ------------------------

(1) Certain information is incorporated by reference, as indicated below, from
    the Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 31,
    1999 (the "Annual Report") and the registrant's Notice of Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders and Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
    be held on April 18, 2000, (the "Proxy Statement").

(2) Proxy Statement section entitled "Market for Registrant's Common Equity and
    Related Stockholder Matters."

(3) Annual report, pages 26-33, section entitled "Management's Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

(4) Annual report, pages 34-55, sections entitled "Consolidated Balance Sheets,"
    "Consolidated Statements of Operations," "Consolidated Statements of Cash
    Flows, "Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity," "Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements," and "Report of Independent Auditors."

(5) Proxy Statement sections entitled "Election of Directors" and "Management."

(6) Proxy Statement sections entitled "Executive Compensation" and "Certain
    Transactions."

(7) Proxy Statement section entitled "Record Date, Required Vote, Outstanding
    Shares and Holdings of Certain Stockholder-Security Ownership of Certain
    Beneficial Owners and Management."
<PAGE>
                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

    Except where otherwise noted, the words "we," "us," "our," and similar
terms, as well as references to "Argosy" or the "Company" refer to Argosy Gaming
Company and all of its subsidiaries.

    We are a leading owner and operator of five riverboat casinos located in
emerging gaming markets of the central United States. We pioneered riverboat
gaming in St. Louis, Kansas City, Baton Rouge and Sioux City by opening the
first casino in each of those markets. Our newest riverboat casino serves the
Cincinnati market from Lawrenceburg, Indiana and is one of the largest revenue
producing riverboats in the United States gaming industry. We operate the
Lawrenceburg casino through a joint venture subsidiary of which we currently own
a 57.5% interest.

    We are a Delaware corporation. Our principal executive offices are located
at 219 Piasa Street, Alton, Illinois 62002 and our telephone number is
(618) 474-7500. You may obtain additional information about us at our website,
www.argosycasinos.com.

    The following summarizes our casino properties:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        PRINCIPAL METROPOLITAN                             GAMING
CASINO NAME                                 MARKETS SERVED            1999 NET REVENUES   POSITIONS
- -----------                        ---------------------------------  -----------------   ---------
                                                                       (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                <C>                                <C>                 <C>
Argosy Casino--Lawrenceburg        Cincinnati-Dayton-Columbus, Ohio       $332,235          2,652
Alton Belle Casino                 St. Louis, Missouri                      88,079          1,010
Argosy Casino--Riverside           Kansas City, Missouri                    89,813          1,324
Argosy Casino--Baton Rouge         Baton Rouge, Louisiana                   55,110          1,012
Belle of Sioux City Casino         Sioux City, Iowa                         28,889            553
</TABLE>

    In mid-1997, we began implementing a strategic plan that has helped
transform us from a company focused on developing casino properties to one
recognized for achieving superior operational performance. Our strategy
emphasizes increasing revenues and profits through expanding direct marketing
programs, investing in state-of-the-art gaming products, such as new slot
machines and player tracking systems, and improving cost controls.

    Our initiatives have had the greatest impact at our four western casinos in
Alton, Riverside, Baton Rouge and Sioux City. For the year ended December 31,
1999, net revenues at the western casinos combined increased 20% to
$262 million, while EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization) increased 70% to $58 million. At Lawrenceburg, 1999 net revenues
grew to $332 million while EBITDA increased to $123 million, due to increased
casino revenues and a full year of hotel operations. Overall, we reported record
results in 1999 with a 17% increase in net revenues to $559 million and a 30%
increase in EBITDA to $157 million.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

    By capitalizing on the extensive gaming industry experience of our
management team, we have developed a strategy to maximize the performance of our
operating assets and improve financial results. We continue to implement changes
at each of our properties to improve our competitive position, increase gaming
revenues and enhance profitability. The key elements of our business strategy
include: (1) utilizing direct marketing to encourage repeat business and foster
customer loyalty; (2) enhancing the gaming product at our casinos by investing
in state-of-the-art gaming equipment; (3) renovating our properties to create
more exciting gaming environments; and (4) increasing our financial flexibility
to enable us to pursue future business opportunities.

    - REDIRECT MARKETING EFFORTS TOWARDS DIRECT MARKETING. Our primary marketing
      focus is through direct and relationship marketing to encourage repeat
      business and foster customer loyalty. At each of our

                                       1
<PAGE>
      properties we use sophisticated player tracking systems to identify and
      reward premium players and our most loyal customers. Based on a player's
      gaming activity, we create targeted promotions including exclusive direct
      mail offers and "member's only" concerts, parties, tournaments,
      sweepstakes and special entertainment events.

    - INVEST IN NEW GAMING EQUIPMENT. Because slot machines represent 80% of our
      revenues, we began a program in 1998 to systematically upgrade our gaming
      product with state-of-the-art slot machines. During 1999, approximately
      80% of the maintenance capital was allocated to upgrade gaming product. We
      believe that regularly replacing slot machines with the most popular
      products creates a more exciting gaming experience and increases
      profitability. At our western casinos, the upgraded machines increased the
      average daily revenue over the older machines they replaced. At
      Lawrenceburg, additional new slot product helped us take advantage of
      increased market demand. Going forward we expect to replace an average of
      15-20% of our gaming equipment annually.

    - RENOVATE OUR RIVERBOAT AND DOCKSIDE ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES.To maintain a
      fresh and exciting gaming experience for our customers, we have developed
      a prudent capital investment plan to systematically renovate our casino
      and entertainment facilities. During 1999 we completed a $19 million
      project at Alton that replaced the existing entertainment pavilion with a
      newly renovated barge that was originally used as the Lawrenceburg
      temporary landing facility and an additional new barge. The Alton
      renovation significantly enhanced the facility's restaurant and
      entertainment amenities and added an additional 130 slot machines. In
      June 1999, we completed a $5 million renovation and retheming of our Baton
      Rouge riverboat. The renovation of the Baton Rouge riverboat's third deck
      features approximately 200 of the newest and most popular video poker
      machines and gaming product upgrades to target the video poker market. In
      July 1999, we began construction of a $20 million, 300 room convention
      hotel adjacent to the Baton Rouge riverboat casino.

    - INCREASE FINANCIAL FLEXIBILITY. In June of 1999, we completed a
      refinancing which has allowed us to lower our overall cost of capital,
      reduce our annual borrowing cost by approximately $13 million and provide
      the flexibility to take advantage of growth opportunities as they arise.
      In the future, we will look to invest in growth opportunities that add
      shareholder value while maintaining the proper capital structure. These
      opportunities could include the potential purchase of the minority
      interests in our Lawrenceburg casino as well as other strategic
      opportunities.

CASINO PROPERTIES

    ARGOSY CASINO LAWRENCEBURG

    PROPERTY:  The Lawrenceburg casino is located on the Ohio River in
Lawrenceburg, Indiana approximately 15 miles west of Cincinnati and is the
closest casino to the Cincinnati metropolitan area. The Lawrenceburg casino is
one of the largest riverboats in the United States with 74,300 square feet of
gaming space on three levels with 2,004 slot machines and 108 table games. The
vessel can accommodate 4,000 passengers; however, to enhance our customers'
comfort and enjoyment, we operate at a self-imposed capacity of 3,600
passengers. We typically conduct 9 two-hour cruises seven days a week, with an
additional cruise on Friday and Saturday evenings, for a total of 65 cruises per
week. Each cruise lasts two hours including a 30 minute boarding time and we
charge admission fees ranging from $5 to $9 depending on the time and day of the
cruise. Approximately 50% of our weekend cruises are sold out. Indiana gaming
law permits dockside gaming only when inclement weather or water conditions
prevent a riverboat from cruising. At such times, the Lawrenceburg casino
remains dockside and operates on its normal schedule.

    The complex also includes a 300 room hotel, which was completed in
June 1998, a 200,000 square foot land-based entertainment pavilion and support
facility featuring a 350 seat buffet restaurant, two specialty restaurants, an
entertainment lounge and a 1,800 space parking garage. Employee and overflow
parking is provided at a 1,400 space remote lot that is accessed by shuttle bus.
We opened the Lawrenceburg casino on December 10, 1996 and, through
September 30, 1997, operated from a temporary site utilizing a leased

                                       2
<PAGE>
vessel and entertainment and support barge that featured approximately 1,275
gaming positions. Parking for the temporary facility was provided by 1,400 space
remote lot from which we operated a shuttle to and from the casino. On
October 1, 1997, the Lawrenceburg casino commenced operations from its permanent
riverboat vessel, which it used on a limited capacity basis at the temporary
site. On December 9, 1997, the Lawrenceburg casino moved to its permanent site
and became fully operational in June 1998 with the completion of its hotel.

    We are the sole general partner of, and hold a 57.5% general partnership
interest in, Indiana Gaming Company, L.P., a joint-venture subsidiary of the
Company that operates the Lawrenceburg casino. Conseco Entertainment L.L.C.
("Conseco"), an indirect subsidiary of Conseco, Inc., holds a 29.0% limited
partnership interest and certain other investors hold the remaining 13.5%
limited partnership interest in the Lawrenceburg partnership. We manage the
operations of the Lawrenceburg casino and receive a management fee of 7.5% of
EBITDA, while Conseco receives a financial advisory fee of 5.0% of EBITDA. For a
more complete description of the partnership agreement see "Lawrenceburg Casino
Partnership Agreement."

    GAMING MARKET:  The Lawrenceburg casino draws from a population of
approximately 1.6 million residents in the Cincinnati metropolitan area and an
additional 5.4 million people who reside within 100 miles of Lawrenceburg,
including the major metropolitan markets of Dayton and Columbus, Ohio and, to a
lesser extent, Indianapolis, Indiana and Lexington, Kentucky. We are currently
adding approximately 18,000 customers to our Lawrenceburg casino database each
month.

    In the Cincinnati market, the Lawrenceburg casino directly competes with one
other riverboat casino, which opened in October 1996. A new riverboat casino is
expected to open in the third quarter of 2000 located approximately 40 miles
from Lawrenceburg in Switzerland County, Indiana. The two riverboat casinos
operating in the Cincinnati market generated $453 million of gaming revenues in
1999, a 6% increase from 1998. The Lawrenceburg casino represented 59% of gaming
position capacity in the Cincinnati market, and captured 68% of the market's
gaming revenues. Secondarily, the Company competes with a riverboat casino in
Bridgeport, Indiana in the Louisville, Kentucky area approximately 100 miles
from Lawrenceburg.

    Our closest competitor is located approximately 15 miles further south of
Lawrenceburg in Rising Sun, Indiana. A new riverboat casino is expected to open
in the third quarter of 2000 located approximately 40 miles from Lawrenceburg in
Switzerland County, Indiana. The new competitor will be located even further
from Lawrenceburg and we expect it will primarily draw customers from Lexington
and the Southern Indiana area.

    Indiana gaming law currently limits the number of gaming licenses to be
issued in the state to a total of 11, including a maximum of 5 licenses along
the Ohio River and a limit of one license per county. Casino gaming is not
currently permitted under the laws of either Ohio or Kentucky. Our Indiana
gaming license is subject to renewal in 2001 and on an annual basis thereafter.
Indiana gaming law does not restrict the size of a licensee's gaming facility or
place limits on customer losses or betting levels.

    CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS:  In 1999, we focused our capital improvements at
Lawrenceburg on a $1.4 million renovation and upgrade of the riverboat casino to
include a high stakes gaming area.

    ALTON BELLE CASINO

    PROPERTY:  The Alton Belle Casino is located on the Mississippi River in
Alton, Illinois approximately 20 miles northeast of downtown St. Louis. We
commenced operations in Alton, Illinois in September 1991 as the first gaming
facility in Illinois and the St. Louis metropolitan market. Following the
success of our original Alton riverboat casino, we built and opened a larger
three-deck contemporary style cruise liner. The cruise liner features 26,500
square feet of gaming space, 818 slot machines and 32 table games. In June,
Illinois passed a law permitting casinos to offer continuous dockside gaming. As
a result, the Alton

                                       3
<PAGE>
Belle Casino remains dockside and offers its customers unlimited ingress and
egress during its hours of operation.

    During 1999, we replaced our existing 37,000 square foot entertainment
pavilion with a newly-renovated barge that was originally used as the
Lawrenceburg temporary landing facility and an additional new barge. The new
entertainment pavilion is approximately 60,000 square feet and features a newly
designed entrance, 130 additional slot machines, larger and improved food and
beverage venues and a new 400 seat main showroom offering better viewing and
more comfortable seating. Parking is available at an adjacent city-owned surface
parking facility and at two sites in the city of Alton, to and from which we
provide valet parking as well as free shuttle service.

    GAMING MARKET:  The Alton Belle Casino generally draws from a population of
approximately 2.5 million within the St. Louis metropolitan area and an
additional 1.2 million within a 100-mile radius of the City of St. Louis. The
target customers of the Alton Belle Casino are drawn largely from the northern
and eastern regions of the greater St. Louis metropolitan area, as well as
portions of central and southern Illinois.

    The Alton Belle Casino faces competition from five other riverboat casino
companies currently operating in the St. Louis area and expects the level of
competition to remain intense in the future. As an Illinois licensee, the Alton
Belle Casino is not subject to Missouri's $500 loss limit and therefore has a
competitive advantage in attracting high-end customers over competitors
operating under Missouri licenses. The riverboat casinos operating in the St.
Louis market generated $613 million of gaming revenues in 1999, a 14% increase
from 1998. The Alton Belle Casino represented approximately 10% of gaming
position capacity in the St. Louis market, and captured approximately 14% of the
market's gaming revenues.

    Illinois gaming law currently limits the number of gaming licenses to be
issued in the state to 10. Each license permits the operation of up to two boats
as part of a single riverboat gaming operation with a combined maximum of 1,200
gaming positions. Our Illinois gaming license is subject to annual renewal in
October 2000.

    CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS:  During 1999, we replaced our existing entertainment
pavilion with the newly renovated barge originally used as the Lawrenceburg
temporary facility and an additional new barge. This $19 million project
features larger and improved food and beverage venues, approximately 130
additional slot machines and a new 400 seat main showroom offering better
viewing and more comfortable seating.

    ARGOSY CASINO OF GREATER KANSAS CITY

    PROPERTY:  The Argosy Casino of Greater Kansas City is located on the
Missouri River in Riverside, Missouri on a 55-acre site approximately five miles
from downtown Kansas City. The riverboat features approximately 36,000 square
feet of gaming space, 1,090 slot machines and 39 table games. The Kansas City
casino began operations in Kansas City, Missouri on June 22, 1994 as the first
gaming facility to open in the Kansas City market. During November 1999,
Missouri adopted open boarding, allowing customers unlimited ingress and egress,
eliminating the two hour mock cruising requirements.

    The Kansas City casino is complemented by an 85,000 square foot land-based
entertainment facility featuring specialty and buffet restaurants, a
sports/entertainment lounge and 8,000 square feet of banquet/ conference
facilities. A parking garage and surface parking areas with 2,027 spaces are
located adjacent to the pavilion.

    GAMING MARKET:  The Kansas City casino draws from a population of
approximately 1.6 million in the greater Kansas City metropolitan area and an
additional 900,000 within a 100-mile radius of Kansas City. The Kansas City
casino site offers convenient access from two major highways. The Kansas City
casino

                                       4
<PAGE>
primarily attracts customers who reside in the northern and western regions of
the Kansas City metropolitan area.

    We currently face competition from three other casinos in the Kansas City
area. The four riverboat casinos operating in the Kansas City market generated
$487 million of gaming revenues in 1999, a 6% increase from 1998. Our Kansas
City casino represented 14% of gaming position capacity in the Kansas City
market, and captured 17% of the market's gaming revenues.

    Our Missouri gaming license is subject to renewal in June 2000 and again
every two years thereafter.

    CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS:  Our primary capital investment focus at Kansas City
in 1999, was the replacement of 115 slot machines, expanded cage operations,
additional reserve fill slot stands and interior signage upgrades.

    ARGOSY CASINO--BATON ROUGE

    PROPERTY:  The Argosy Casino--Baton Rouge is located on the Mississippi
River in downtown Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The riverboat features approximately
28,000 square feet of gaming space, 790 slot machines and 37 table games. The
Argosy Casino--Baton Rouge began operations in September 1994 as the first
riverboat gaming facility in the Baton Rouge market. The Argosy Casino--Baton
Rouge is a three-level riverboat casino that typically conducts eight 3-hour
cruises seven days of the week. Louisiana gaming law provides that a gaming
vessel need not cruise if there is inclement weather or if the river conditions
endanger the passengers or crew. During such times that the Argosy Casino--Baton
Rouge is prevented from cruising it operates on an unlimited ingress and egress
schedule.

    The riverboat casino is complemented by our adjacent real estate development
known as Catfish Town. Catfish Town includes a 50,000 square foot glass-enclosed
atrium, entertainment/sports lounge, buffet/coffee shop, conference facilities
and approximately 150,000 square feet of retail space that is currently
available for lease. Catfish Town is located adjacent to Baton Rouge's
convention complex, the Centroplex, which has a 12,000-seat arena and a
30,000-square foot exhibition hall. The Argosy Casino--Baton Rouge provides
parking at a 733-space parking garage and a 271-space surface parking lot
adjacent to Catfish Town.

    GAMING MARKET:  The Argosy Casino--Baton Rouge draws from a population of
approximately 540,000 in the Baton Rouge metropolitan area. The Baton Rouge
casino faces competition from one casino located in downtown Baton Rouge, a
nearby Native American casino and multiple casinos throughout Louisiana. The two
riverboat casinos operating in the Baton Rouge market generated approximately
$139 million of gaming revenues in 1999, a 19% increase from 1998. The Argosy
Casino--Baton Rouge represented 45% of gaming position capacity in the Baton
Rouge market, and generated 38% of the market's gaming revenues.

    The casinos benefited from the elimination of video poker machines in
non-casino locations in the majority of Baton Rouge parishes as of July 1, 1999.
In June, we completed a renovation of the Argosy Casino--Baton Rouge's
facilities to aggressively pursue the approximately $80 million portion of the
video poker market that was eliminated.

    Our Louisiana license is subject to renewal in July of each year.

    CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS:  In June, 1999, we completed a nearly $5 million
renovation and retheming of all three levels of our Baton Rouge casino. The
major upgrade features an exciting new Caribbean pirate theme and a reconfigured
third deck including a video poker area with its own separate service and
featuring the newest and most popular video poker machines available.

    JAZZ ENTERPRISES:  Jazz Enterprises, Inc. owns and operates the Catfish Town
development adjacent to the riverboat casino. The development of the historical
Catfish Town riverfront warehouse district into a

                                       5
<PAGE>
retail/entertainment district was an integral element in obtaining a Louisiana
gaming license for the Argosy Casino--Baton Rouge. Our original intent was to
develop and operate the casino and our joint-venture partner would develop and
manage the Catfish Town real estate and hotel. In 1995 our real estate partner
experienced financial difficulties, and to preserve our gaming license, we
purchased Jazz Enterprises, Inc.

    Pursuant to a development agreement, Jazz Enterprises, Inc. has certain
obligations to the City of Baton Rouge including the obligation to construct a
convention size hotel or collect and pay to the City an incremental head tax of
$2.50 per passenger, fund a transportation system connecting downtown Baton
Rouge and Catfish Town and to develop the Catfish Town facility to accommodate
restaurants, retail space and entertainment and restaurant facilities. During
July 1999, we began construction of a $20 million 300-room hotel in Baton Rouge
to fulfill our obligations under the development agreement. We expect that
annual cash flows at Baton Rouge will benefit by $3 million due to the
elimination of the incremental head tax based on current passenger boarding
levels. The incremental head tax reduction for 1999 was approximately
$1.6 million.

    BELLE OF SIOUX CITY

    PROPERTY:  The Belle of Sioux City is located on the Missouri River in
downtown Sioux City, Iowa. The riverboat features 12,500 square feet of gaming
space, 427 slot machines and 21 table games. The Belle of Sioux City typically
conducts one two-hour cruise each day for 100 days per year. At all other times
the Belle of Sioux City remains dockside and operates with unlimited ingress and
egress. The casino is complemented by adjacent barge facilities featuring buffet
dining facilities, meeting space and administrative support offices.

    We became the manager of the Belle of Sioux City on October 4, 1994 and on
December 1, 1994 began operating the Belle of Sioux City through a partnership
in which we are a 70% general partner and Sioux City Riverboat Corp., Inc. is a
30% limited partner. As manager of the casino we receive a management fee of
4.5% based upon the facility's adjusted gross gaming revenues (as defined in the
management agreement).

    GAMING MARKET:  The Belle of Sioux City draws from a population of
approximately 80,000 in Sioux City and an estimated 100,000 residents within a
40-mile radius of Sioux City. The Belle of Sioux City competes primarily with
land-based Native American casinos that are not required to report gaming
revenues and other operating statistics, therefore market comparisons cannot be
made. We also compete with certain providers and operators of video gaming in
the neighboring state of South Dakota. In addition, we compete with slot
machines at a pari-mutual race track in Council Bluffs, Iowa and from two
riverboat casinos in the Council Bluffs/Omaha, Nebraska market. Our Iowa gaming
license is subject to annual renewal each March.

    CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS:  In 1999 we spent $2.4 million to enhance our
customers' gaming experience at the Belle of Sioux City. Specifically, we
replaced approximately 250 slot machines and completely renovated the
riverboat's interior, including new ceilings, lighting, wallcovering and
carpeting.

INSURANCE

    We carry property and casualty insurance on our land-based assets and our
vessels, generally in the amount of their replacement costs, with a nominal
deductible with respect to our land-based assets and a deductible equal to 2% of
the replacement value of the vessels. Our land-based assets are not currently
covered by flood insurance. Our general liability insurance with respect to
land-based operations has a limit of $1 million per occurrence and $2 million as
an annual aggregate with a $50,000 deductible. Our general liability insurance
with respect to our marine operations has a $100,000 per occurrence deductible
with per occurrence coverage up to a $75 million limit. With respect to worker's
compensation we have a $250,000 per occurrence deductible with a $1 million per
occurrence limit. We carry business interruption

                                       6
<PAGE>
insurance at our properties which carry a deductible ranging from 14 to 30 days
depending on the location and maximum coverage of up to $35 million.

COMPETITION

    The U.S. gaming industry is intensely competitive and features many
participants, including riverboat casinos, dockside casinos, land-based casinos,
video lottery and poker machines not located in casinos, Native American gaming
and other forms of gambling in the United States. Gaming competition is
particularly intense in each of the markets where we operate. Historically, we
have been an early entrant in each of our markets; however, as competing
properties have opened, our operating results in each of these markets have been
negatively affected. Many of our competitors have more gaming industry
experience, are larger and have significantly greater financial and other
resources. In addition, some of our direct competitors in certain markets may
have superior facilities and/or operating conditions in terms of: (i) dockside
versus cruising riverboat gaming; (ii) multiple riverboat casinos, which feature
more continuous boarding; (iii) amenities offered at the gaming facility and the
related support and entertainment facilities; (iv) convenient parking
facilities; (v) a location more favorably situated to the population base of a
market and ease of accessibility to the casino site; and (vi) favorable tax or
regulatory factors.

    There could be further competition in our markets as a result of the
upgrading or expansion of facilities by existing market participants, the
entrance of new gaming participants into a market or legislative changes. We
expect each market in which we participate, both current and prospective, to be
highly competitive.

MARKETING

    We have changed our marketing focus from mass marketing to direct and
relationship marketing in order to encourage repeat business and foster customer
loyalty. We have designed an overall marketing strategy to attain our objective
of utilizing direct marketing as our primary means of communicating with our
customers. Although the marketing plan for each of our properties is tailored to
the specific needs of the site, the overall strategic components are relatively
constant:

    - Further refine and enhance our database marketing efforts;

    - Create a full-service player development program to service our premium
      customers;

    - Aggressively market our gaming product and facility improvements;

    - Refine, enhance and expand the schedule of parties, events and
      entertainment; and

    - Utilize public relations as a tool to increase awareness, and reinforce
      marketing efforts by publicizing winners.

    A key tactic in implementing our overall strategy is the effective use of
the information we obtain regarding our customers' playing activity. At each of
our properties, we encourage patrons to join the Argosy Preferred Club. We then
track the member's level of play through the use of sophisticated player
tracking systems. As of December 31, 1999, we had over 800,000 active Preferred
Club members and we are adding, on average, over 20,000 new members each month.
In 1998, we engaged database managers to enhance our database and oversee our
data collection and utilization programs. Utilizing the information from our
database, we create targeted promotions including exclusive direct mail offers
and "members only" parties, tournaments, sweepstakes and special entertainment
events.

EMPLOYEES

    As of December 31, 1999, we employed approximately 4,394 full-time and 656
part-time employees. Approximately 2,286 employees, located throughout our
properties, are represented by the Seafarers International Union of North
America. We have collective bargaining agreements with that union which

                                       7
<PAGE>
expire at various times between June 2003 and June 2004. In Alton eleven of our
employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
and approximately 85 employees are represented by the United Plant Guard Workers
of America. In addition, 23 employees located throughout our properties except
Alton are represented by American Maritime Officers Union.

    We have not experienced any work stoppages and believe our labor relations
are generally satisfactory.

                   LAWRENCEBURG CASINO PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT

    GENERAL.  Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, The Indiana Gaming Company,
we are the majority partner in Indiana Gaming Company L.P., the Indiana
partnership that owns and operates the Lawrenceburg casino. The Indiana Gaming
Company, is the sole manager of the partnership and receives a fee of 7.5% of
EBITDA (as defined in the partnership agreement). The Indiana Gaming Company's
management of the casino is subject only to certain actions or major decisions
which require the consent of a majority in interest of the limited partners. The
largest minority partner, Conseco, receives a financial advisory fee of 5.0% of
EBITDA.

    PARTNER DISTRIBUTIONS.  After principal and interest on capital loans is
repaid, cash flow is distributed to the partners as follows:

    - first, to the partners pro rata for tax payments in an amount equal to
      their taxable net income for such period;

    - second, to the partners as a prepayment of principal on capital loans to
      be applied in the inverse order of maturity, up to 75% of the remaining
      cash flow;

    - third, in payment of a preferred return of 14% on any preferred equity
      contributed by the partners;

    - fourth, as a return of the preferred equity contributed by the partners;

    - fifth, as a return of common equity contributed by the partners; and

    - sixth, to the partners in accordance with their respective percentage
      interests.

    These distributions are required to be made no less frequently than
quarterly, but historically, they have been made monthly. The partnership
agreement provides that the net cash proceeds from a sale or refinancing are
distributed by the general partner in the same order as cash flow except that
the proceeds will be used to repay 100% of outstanding capital loans by the
partners.

    PARTNERSHIP INTEREST BUY-SELL OBLIGATIONS.  The Lawrenceburg partnership
agreement provides that: (i) after December 10, 1999, each limited partner has
the right to sell its interest to the other partners (pro rata in accordance
with their respective percentage interests) or (ii) at any time after a deadlock
by the partners with respect to significant items in any annual operating budget
of the partnership for budget year 1999 and thereafter, any partner has a right
to sell its interest to the other partners.

    After the selling partner gives notice of its intent to sell, the partners
have 60 days to attempt in good faith to agree to a purchase price. If no
agreement is reached within 60 days, then the selling partner's interest is
appraised to determine its fair market value. After the appraised fair market
value of the selling partner's interest is determined, the other partners have
60 days to reject a purchase at that price. After such a rejection, the general
partner is required to solicit bids and sell all of the assets of the
Lawrenceburg partnership within twelve months to the highest bidder and
following such sale, dissolve Indiana Gaming Company L.P.

    No assurance can be given that we will have sufficient funds to acquire any
selling partner's interest in the circumstances provided for above or that we
will choose to make such a purchase. In such an event, the assets of the
Lawrenceburg partnership would have to be sold to the highest bidder as provided
above,

                                       8
<PAGE>
which could result in our losing control of the Lawrenceburg casino. If we sold
the assets of the Lawrenceburg partnership, any outstanding amounts under the
credit facility would be accelerated and under the indenture we would be
required to make an offer to purchase the exchange notes.

    In addition, the partnership agreement provides all partners with a right of
first refusal on transfers of any partnership interest. A foreclosure by a
secured creditor, such as the lenders under the credit facility, would
constitute a transfer of our partnership interest and under the partnership
agreement provides all partners a right of first refusal on that partnership
interest.

    REMOVAL AS GENERAL PARTNER.  The partnership agreement provides that The
Indiana Gaming Company, can be removed as general partner of the partnership by
the limited partners under certain limited circumstances, including:

    - a material breach (after notice and expiration of applicable cure periods)
      of certain material provisions of the partnership agreement dealing with
      such things as distributions to partners or the failure to obtain the
      required consent of the limited partners for certain major decisions;

    - if the general partner is convicted of embezzlement or fraud;

    - certain bankruptcy events;

    - if our partnership interest in the Lawrenceburg partnership is less than
      40% due to sales or dilution for failure to pay required capital;

    - a final unappealable judgment against The Indiana Gaming Company in excess
      of $25 million which is uninsured and remains unsatisfied, unreleased or
      unstayed for 180 days;

    - certain acts by the general partner constituting "gross mismanagement;"
      and

    - if a secured creditor, such as the lenders under the credit facility, were
      to foreclose on the pledge of our partnership interest in the Lawrenceburg
      partnership.

    Upon removal, the general partnership interest becomes a "special limited
partner" interest with rights to partner distributions but only limited voting
rights on partnership matters. Also, if the reason for the removal is an event
described above, other than a less than 40% ownership, the limited partners may
acquire all, but not less than all, of The Indiana Gaming Company's interest for
fair market value as determined by an appraisal process.

                                       9
<PAGE>
                               REGULATORY MATTERS

ILLINOIS

    In February 1990, the State of Illinois pursuant to the Riverboat Gambling
Act (the "Riverboat Act") legalized riverboat gaming. The Riverboat Act
authorizes riverboat gaming upon any navigable stream within or forming a
boundary of the State of Illinois other than Lake Michigan. Newly enacted
legislation eliminated the prohibition on gaming operations in counties with
populations over 3,000,000. The Riverboat Act grants the Illinois Gaming Board
specific powers and duties, and all other powers which are necessary and proper
to effectuate the Riverboat Act. The Illinois Gaming Board's jurisdiction
extends to every person, association, corporation, partnership and trust
involved in riverboat gaming operations in the State of Illinois.

    The Riverboat Act authorized a five member Illinois Gaming Board to issue up
to ten owner's licenses statewide. Each owner's license permits the operation of
up to two boats as a part of a single riverboat gaming operation with a combined
maximum of 1,200 gaming positions (as defined by the Illinois Gaming Board). In
addition to the ten owner's licenses which may be authorized under the Riverboat
Act, the Illinois Gaming Board may issue special event licenses allowing persons
who are not otherwise licensed to conduct riverboat gaming on a specified date
or series of dates. Riverboat gaming under such a license may take place on a
riverboat not normally used for riverboat gaming.

    An owner's license is issued for an initial period of three years (with a
fee of $25,000 for the first year and $5,000 for each of the following two
years). Our Illinois gaming license is subject to renewal in October, 2000.
Newly enacted legislation has extended the renewal period from annually to once
every four years. Our license is eligible for renewal upon:

    - payment of a $5,000 fee; and

    - the Illinois Gaming Board's determination that we continue to meet all of
      the requirements of the Riverboat Act.

    The Illinois Gaming Board also requires that officers, directors and
employees of a gaming operation be licensed. Licenses issued by the Illinois
Gaming Board may not be transferred to another person or entity. All licensees
must maintain their suitability for licensure and have a continuing duty to
disclose any material changes in information provided to the Illinois Gaming
Board.

    Pursuant to its rule making authority under the Illinois Riverboat Act, the
Illinois Gaming Board has adopted certain regulations that provide that any
beneficial owner of the legal or beneficial interests of a gaming company may be
required, and in the case of a beneficial owner of 5% or more of the legal or
beneficial interests (a "5% Holder") is required, to furnish a detailed personal
disclosure form to the Illinois Gaming Board. The Illinois Gaming Board uses the
personal disclosure form as the basis for its investigation to determine such
holder's suitability as a stockholder of the company. In the case of a 5%
Holder, the Illinois Gaming Board conducts such an investigation. The Illinois
Gaming Board's decisions as to suitability are based on the same criteria used
for a finding of preliminary suitability for licensure including:

    - character;

    - reputation;

    - experience; and

    - financial integrity.

    If the Illinois Gaming Board determines that a holder is not suitable, the
holder is entitled to request a hearing; however, if no hearing is requested
after such determination or such finding is upheld after a

                                       10
<PAGE>
hearing, the holder is required to divest his shares of common stock of the
company. After a holder is required to divest and until divestiture, the
licensee is unable to distribute profits to such stockholder.

    We are required to obtain formal approval from the Illinois Gaming Board for
changes in:

    - our key personnel, including our officers, directors, managing agents, or
      holders of a 5% or greater ownership interest in the business entity;

    - our organizational form;

    - our equity and debt capitalization;

    - our investors and/or debt holders;

    - our sources of funds;

    - our economic development plan;

    - the Alton Belle Casino's capacity or significant design changes;

    - the number of gaming positions available on the Alton Belle Casino;

    - anticipated economic impact; or

    - oral or written agreements relating to the acquisition or disposition of
      property of a value greater than $1 million.

    A holder of an owner's license is allowed to make distributions to its
partners, stockholders or itself only to the extent that such distribution would
not impair the financial viability of the gaming operation. Factors to be
considered by the licensee include, but are not limited to, the following:

    - working capital requirements;

    - debt service requirements;

    - requirements for repairs and maintenance; and

    - capital expenditure requirements.

    Minimum and maximum wagers on games are set by the licensee. Wagering may
not be conducted with money or negotiable currency. No person under the age of
21 is permitted to wager in Illinois, and wagers may only be taken from a person
present on a licensed riverboat. With respect to electronic gaming devices, the
payout percentage may not be less than 80% nor more than 100%.

    Under the Riverboat Act, vessels must have:

    - the capacity to hold a minimum of 500 persons if operating on the
      Mississippi River or the Illinois River south of Marshall County, and a
      minimum of 400 persons on any other waterway;

    - be accessible to disabled persons;

    - be either a replica of a 19th century Illinois riverboat or be a casino
      cruise ship design; and

    - comply with applicable federal and state laws, including but not limited
      to U.S. Coast Guard regulations.

    Pursuant to legislation enacted in June, 1999, we are not required to cruise
and may conduct gaming activities while remaining dockside offering unlimited
ingress and egress to our patrons. In addition, the legislation removed the
ownership restriction. The legality of the legislation is currently being
challenged in the Illinois Court system. There can be no assurance that the
legislation will be found to be valid. If found invalid, we would be required to
cruise.

                                       11
<PAGE>
    The Riverboat Act imposes a graduated wagering tax based on adjusted gross
receipts from gambling games at the following rates:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
ADJUSTED GROSS RECEIPTS                           TAX RATE
- -----------------------                           --------
<S>                                               <C>
Up to $25,000,000...............................     15%
$25,000,001 to $50,000,000......................     20%
$50,000,001 to $75,000,000......................     25%
$75,000,001 to $100,000,000.....................     30%
$100,000,001 and above..........................     35%
</TABLE>

The tax imposed is to be paid by the licensed owner by wire transfer to the
Illinois Gaming Board on the day after the day when the wagers were made. The
Riverboat Act also requires that licensees pay a $2.00 admission tax for each
person admitted to the Alton Belle Casino. In addition, all use, occupancy and
excise taxes that apply to food and beverages and all taxes imposed on the sale
or use of tangible property apply to sales aboard riverboats. We also pay a $.25
admission tax to the City of Alton for each person admitted to the Alton Belle
Casino.

    The Illinois Gaming Board is authorized to conduct investigations into the
conduct of gaming as it may deem necessary and proper and into alleged
violations of the Riverboat Act. Employees and agents of the Illinois Gaming
Board have access to and may inspect any facilities relating to riverboat gaming
operations at all times.

    A holder of any license is subject to the imposition of fines, suspension or
revocation of such license, or other action for any act or failure to act by
himself or his agents or employees, that is injurious to the public health,
safety, morals, good order and general welfare of the people of the State of
Illinois, or that would discredit or tend to discredit the Illinois gaming
industry or the State of Illinois. Any riverboat operation not conducted in
compliance with the Riverboat Act may constitute an illegal gaming place and
consequently may be subject to criminal penalties, which penalties include
possible seizure, confiscation and destruction of illegal gaming devices and
seizure and sale of riverboats and dock facilities to pay any unsatisfied
judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied fine that may be levied. The
Illinois Gaming Board may revoke or suspend licenses, as the Illinois Board may
see fit and in compliance with applicable laws of Illinois regarding
administrative procedures and may suspend an owner's license, without notice or
hearing, upon a determination that the safety or health of patrons or employees
is jeopardized by continuing a riverboat's operation. The suspension may remain
in effect until the Illinois Gaming Board determines that the cause for
suspension has been abated and it may revoke the owner's license upon a
determination that the owner has not made satisfactory progress toward abating
the hazard.

    The Illinois Gaming Board may waive any licensing requirement or procedure
provided by rule if it determines that such waiver is in the best interests of
the public and the gaming industry.

INDIANA

    In June 1993, the Indiana legislature adopted legislation permitting
riverboat gambling in counties contiguous to Lake Michigan, the Ohio River and
Patoka Lake. The legislation granted authority to supervise gaming activities to
the seven-member Indiana Gaming Commission. The Indiana Gaming Commission is
empowered to administer, regulate and enforce the system of riverboat gaming
established under Indiana's Riverboat Gambling Act (the "Indiana Riverboat Act")
and has jurisdiction and supervision over all riverboat gaming operations in
Indiana, as well as all persons on riverboats where gaming operations are
conducted. The Indiana Gaming Commission has broad powers to regulate riverboat
gaming operations and to approve the form of ownership and financial structure
of not only riverboat owner licensees, but also their entity qualifiers, and
intermediary and holding companies. Further, the Indiana General Assembly has
the power to promulgate new laws and implement amendments to the

                                       12
<PAGE>
Indiana Riverboat Act, which can materially affect the operation or economic
viability of the gaming industry in Indiana.

    The Indiana Riverboat Act requires the owner of a riverboat gaming operation
to hold an owner's license issued by the Indiana Gaming Commission. The Indiana
Gaming Commission is authorized to issue not more than 11 owner's licenses
statewide. Each license entitles the licensee to own and operate one riverboat
and gaming equipment as part of the gaming operation. A licensee may own no more
than a 10% interest in any other owner's license under the Indiana Riverboat
Act.

    The Indiana Riverboat Act restricts the granting of the 11 owner's licenses
by location. The 11 licenses must be awarded as follows:

    - two licenses for riverboats operating from Gary;

    - one license for a riverboat operating in Hammond;

    - one license for a riverboat operating in East Chicago;

    - one license for a riverboat operating in any city located in LaPorte,
      Porter or Lake counties, not including the above-named cities;

    - five licenses for riverboats that operate upon the Ohio River from
      counties contiguous thereto and with no more than one operating in any
      county; and

    - one license for a riverboat operating in Patoka Lake from either DuBois,
      Crawford or Orange Counties.

    Each owner's license runs for a period of five years after the effective
date of the license. Thereafter, the license is subject to renewal on an annual
basis upon a determination by the Indiana Gaming Commission that the licensee
continues to be eligible for an owner's license pursuant to the Indiana
Riverboat Act and the rules and regulations adopted thereunder. Our Indiana
gaming license is subject to renewal in 2001. A licensed owner undergoes a
complete investigation every three years. A licensed owner may apply for and may
hold other licenses that are necessary for the operation of a riverboat,
including licenses to sell alcoholic beverages, a license to prepare and serve
food and any other necessary license. Furthermore, the Indiana Riverboat Act
requires that officers, directors and employees of a gaming operation and
suppliers of gaming equipment, devices and supplies and certain other suppliers
be licensed. All Indiana state excise taxes, use taxes and gross retail taxes
apply to sales on a riverboat.

    Applicants for licensure must submit comprehensive application and personal
disclosure forms and undergo an exhaustive background investigation prior to the
issuance of a license. The applicant must also disclose the identity of any
person in which the applicant has an equity interest of at least one percent
(1%) of all shares. The Indiana Gaming Commission has the authority to request
specific information on any shareholder.

    A riverboat owner licensee or any other person may not lease, hypothecate,
borrow money against or loan money against an owner's riverboat gaming license.
An ownership interest in an owner's riverboat gaming license may only be
transferred in accordance with the regulations promulgated under the Indiana
Riverboat Act.

    Pursuant to rules promulgated by the Indiana Gaming Commission, any person
(other than an institutional investor) who individually, or in association with
others, acquires directly or indirectly the beneficial ownership of 5% or more
of any class of voting securities of a publicly-traded corporation that is a
riverboat licensee or 5% or more of the beneficial interest in a riverboat
licensee, directly or indirectly, through any class of the voting securities of
any holding or intermediary company of a riverboat licensee shall apply to the
Indiana Gaming Commission for finding of suitability within 45 days after
acquiring the securities. Each institutional investor who, individually or in
association with others, acquires, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership
of 5% or more of any class of voting securities of a publicly-traded

                                       13
<PAGE>
corporation that is a riverboat licensee or 5% or more of the beneficial
interest in a riverboat licensee through any class of the voting securities of
any holding or intermediary company of a riverboat licensee shall notify the
Indiana Gaming Commission within 10 days after the institutional investor
acquires the securities and shall provide additional information and may be
subject to a finding of suitability as required by the Indiana Gaming
Commission.

    An institutional investor who would otherwise be subject to a suitability
finding shall, within 45 days, after acquiring the interests submit information
to the Indiana Gaming Commission including the following:

    - a description of the institutional investor's business

    - a statement as to why the institutional investor satisfies the
      definitional requirements of an institutional investor under Indiana
      gaming rule requirements;

    - a certification made under oath and the penalty of perjury that the voting
      securities were acquired and are held for investment purposes only and
      were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an
      institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or
      indirectly, the election of a majority of the board of directors, any
      change in the corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or
      operations of a riverboat licensee;

    - the name, address, telephone number, social security number or federal tax
      identification number of the officers and directors, or their equivalents,
      of the institutional investor, as well as each person who has the power to
      direct or control the institutional investor's exercise of its voting
      rights as a holder of voting securities of the riverboat licensee;

    - the name of each person who beneficially owns 5% or more of the
      institutional investor's voting securities or equivalent;

    - a list of the institutional investor's affiliates;

    - a list of all securities of the riverboat licensee that are or were
      beneficially owned by the institutional investor or its affiliates within
      the preceding one year;

    - a list of all regulatory agencies with which the institutional investor,
      or an affiliate that beneficially owns voting securities of the riverboat
      licensee, files periodic reports; a disclosure of all criminal and
      regulatory sanctions imposed during the preceding ten years; a copy of any
      filing made under 15 U.S.C. 18(a); and

    - any other additional information the Indiana Gaming Commission may request
      to insure compliance with Indiana gaming laws.

    Each institutional investor who, individually or in association with others,
acquires, directly or indirectly, the beneficial ownership of 15% or more of any
class of voting securities of a publicly-traded corporation that owns a
riverboat owner's license or 15% or more of the beneficial interest in a
riverboat licensee directly or indirectly through any class of voting securities
of any holding company or intermediary company of a riverboat licensee shall
apply to the Indiana Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability within
45 days after acquiring the securities.

    An institutional investor means any of the following:

    - a retirement fund administered by a public agency for the exclusive
      benefit of federal, state or local public employees;

    - an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940;

    - a collective investment trust organized by banks under Part 9 of the Rules
      of the Comptroller of the Currency;

                                       14
<PAGE>
    - a closed end investment trust;

    - a chartered or licensed life insurance company or property and casualty
      insurance company;

    - a banking, chartered or licensed lending institution;

    - an investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers Act of
      1940; and

    - any other entity the Indiana Gaming Commission determines constitutes an
      institutional investor.

    The Indiana Riverboat Act imposes a tax on admissions to gaming excursions
at a rate of $3.00 for each person admitted to each gaming excursion. This
admission tax is imposed upon the license owner conducting the gaming excursion
on a per-person basis without regard to the actual fee paid by the person using
the ticket, with the exception that no tax shall be paid by admittees who are
actual and necessary officials, employees of the licensee or other persons
actually working on the riverboat. The number and issuance of tax-free passes is
subject to the rules of the Indiana Gaming Commission. A list of all persons to
whom the tax-free passes are issued must be filed with the Indiana Gaming
Commission. A tax is imposed on the adjusted gross receipts received from gaming
games under the Indiana Riverboat Act at a rate of twenty percent (20%) of the
amount of the adjusted gross receipts. Adjusted gross receipts is defined as the
total of all cash and property (including checks received by a licensee),
whether collected or not, received by a licensee from gaming operations less the
total of all cash paid out as winnings to patrons including a provision for
uncollectible gaming receivables as is further set forth in the Indiana
Riverboat Act. The Indiana Gaming Commission may, from time to time, impose
other fees and assessments on riverboat owner licensees. In addition, all use,
excise and retail taxes apply to sales aboard riverboats.

    Riverboats operating in Indiana must:

    - have a valid certificate of inspection from the U.S. Coast Guard to carry
      at least 500 passengers; and

    - be at least 150 feet long.

Any riverboat that operates on the Ohio River must replicate, as nearly as
possible, historic Indiana steamboat passenger vessels of the nineteenth
century. Riverboats operating in Lake Michigan or Patoka Lake need not meet this
requirement.

    Gaming sessions are generally required to be at least two hours and are
limited to a maximum duration of four hours. No gaming may be conducted while
the boat is docked, except

    - for 30-minute time periods at the beginning and end of each cruise while
      the passengers are embarking and disembarking (total gaming time is
      limited to four hours, however, including the pre- and post-docking
      periods); and

    - when weather or water conditions prevent the boat from cruising.

The Indiana Gaming Commission may grant extended cruise hours at its discretion.
If the master of the riverboat reasonably determines and certifies in writing
that specific weather conditions or water conditions present a danger to the
riverboat and the riverboat's passengers and crew, the riverboat may remain
docked and gaming may take place until:

    - the master determines that the conditions have sufficiently diminished for
      the riverboat to safely proceed; or

    - the duration of the authorized excursion has expired.

    No riverboat licensee or riverboat license applicant may enter into or
perform any contract or transaction in which it transfers or receives
consideration which is not commercially reasonable or which does not reflect the
fair market value of the goods or services rendered or received as determined at
the time the contract is executed. Any contract entered into by a riverboat
licensee or riverboat license

                                       15
<PAGE>
applicant that exceeds the total dollar amount of $50,000 shall be a written
contract. A riverboat license applicant means an applicant for a riverboat
owner's license that has been issued a certificate of suitability.

    Pursuant to Indiana Gaming Commission rules, riverboat licensees and
riverboat license applicants must submit:

    - an internal control procedure regarding purchasing transactions which must
      contain provisions regarding ethical standards, compliance with state and
      federal laws, and prohibitions on the acceptance of gifts and gratuities
      by purchasing and contracting personnel from suppliers of goods or
      services;

    - any contract, transaction or series of transactions greater than $500,000
      in any 12-month period to the Indiana Gaming Commission within 10 days of
      execution; and

    - submit a summary of all contracts or transactions greater than $50,000 in
      any 12-month period on a quarterly basis.

The rules provide that contracts submitted to the Indiana Gaming Commission are
not submitted for approval, but grant the Indiana Gaming Commission authority to
cancel or terminate any contract that is not in compliance with Indiana law and
Indiana Gaming Commission rules or that does not maintain the integrity of the
riverboat gambling industry.

    A riverboat owner licensee may not enter into or perform any contract or
transaction in which it transfers or receives consideration which is not
commercially reasonable or which does not reflect the fair market value of the
goods and services rendered or received. All contracts are subject to
disapproval by the Indiana Gaming Commission. A riverboat owner licensee or an
affiliate may not enter into a debt transaction of $1.0 million or more without
prior approval of the Indiana Gaming Commission. The Indiana Gaming Commission
has a rule requiring the reporting of certain currency transactions, which is
similar to that required by Federal authorities. See "--Other Applicable
Non-Gaming Regulations."

    Indiana gaming laws provide that the opportunity for full minority and
women's business enterprise participation in the riverboat industry in Indiana
is essential to social and economic parity for minority and women business
persons. The Indiana Gaming Commission has the power to review compliance with
the goals of participation by minority and women business persons and impose
appropriate conditions on licensees to insure that goals for such business
enterprises are met. Under the Indiana Riverboat Act, a riverboat licensee or a
riverboat license applicant shall designate certain minimum percentages of the
value of its contracts for goods and services to be expended with minority
business enterprises and women's' business enterprises such that 10% of the
dollar value of the riverboat licensee's or the riverboat license applicant's
contracts for goods and services be expended with minority enterprises and 5% of
the dollar value of the riverboat licensee's or the riverboat license
applicant's contracts for goods and services be expended with women's business
enterprises. Expenditures with minority and women business enterprises are not
mutually exclusive. Licensees are required to report the dollar value and
percentage of contracts awarded to minority business enterprises and women's
business enterprises annually. If the Indiana Gaming Commission determines that
a licensee has not met these requirements, it may suspend, limit or revoke the
owner's license or fine or impose appropriate conditions on the licensee.
However, if a determination is made that a person holding an owner's license has
failed to demonstrate compliance, the person has ninety (90) days from the date
of determination to comply.

    All licensees subject to the jurisdiction of the Indiana Gaming Commission
have a continuing duty to maintain suitability for licensure. The Indiana Gaming
Commission may initiate an investigation or disciplinary action or both against
a licensee about whom the commission has reason to believe is not maintaining
suitability for licensure, is not complying with licensure conditions, and/or is
not complying with Indiana gaming laws or regulations. The Indiana Gaming
Commission may suspend, revoke, restrict or place conditions on the license of a
licensee; require the removal of a licensee or an employee of a

                                       16
<PAGE>
licensee; impose a civil penalty or take any other action deemed necessary by
the Indiana Gaming Commission to insure compliance with Indiana gaming laws.

    The Indiana Riverboat Act prohibits contributions to a candidate for a
state, legislative, or local office, or to a candidate's committee or to a
regular party committee by the holder of a riverboat owner's license or a
supplier's license, by an officer of a licensee or by an officer of a person
that holds at least a 1% interest in the licensee. The Indiana Gaming Commission
has promulgated a rule requiring quarterly reporting by the holder of a
riverboat owner's license or a supplier's license or officers of the licensee,
officers of persons that hold at least a 1% interest in the licensee, and of
persons who directly or indirectly own a 1% interest in the licensee.

    The Indiana Gaming Commission adopted a rule which prohibits a distribution
by a riverboat licensee to its partners, shareholders, itself, or any affiliated
entity, if the distribution would impair the financial viability of the
riverboat gaming operation. The Indiana Gaming Commission has adopted a rule
which requires riverboat licensees to maintain, on a quarterly basis, a cash
reserve in the amount of the actual payout for three days, and the cash reserve
would include cash in the casino cage, cash in a bank account in Indiana or cash
equivalents not committed or obligated.

    The Governor of Indiana has appointed a Gaming Impact Study Commission
chaired by the Attorney General to review the impact of all forms of gaming in
Indiana and to issue its final report by December 31, 1999.

IOWA

    In 1989, the State of Iowa legalized riverboat gaming on the Mississippi and
Missouri Rivers and certain other waterways located in Iowa. The Excursion
Gambling Act grants the Iowa Racing and Gaming Commission (the "Iowa
Commission") jurisdiction over all gambling operations.

    The legislation authorized the granting of licenses to conduct riverboat
gaming to nonprofit corporations which, in turn, are permitted to enter into
operating agreements with persons who are licensed by the Iowa Commission to
operate riverboat casinos. The number of licenses which may be granted is
limited to 10 and restricted to the counties where such boats were operating (or
licensed to operate in the future) as of May 1, 1998.

    Gaming is permitted only on riverboats which recreate, as nearly as
practicable, Iowa's riverboat history and have a capacity for at least 250
persons with tickets. In addition, the licensee must utilize Iowa resources,
goods and services in the operation of the riverboat. An excursion gambling boat
must operate at least one excursion each day for 100 days during the excursion
season, (from April 1 through October 31). Excursions consist of a minimum two
hours during the excursion season. While an excursion gambling boat is docked,
passengers may embark or disembark at any time during its business hours. If
during the excursion season it is determined that it would be unsafe to complete
any portion of an excursion, or if mechanical problems prevent the completion of
any portion of an excursion, the boat may be allowed to remain dockside.

    A gaming license will be issued for not more than three years and is subject
to annual renewals thereafter. Our Iowa gaming license is subject to renewal in
March 2000. The Iowa Commission has broad discretion with regard to such
renewals. The annual license fee to operate an excursion gambling boat is based
on the passenger carrying capacity, including crew, for which the excursion
gambling boat is registered. The annual fee is five dollars per person capacity.
Licenses issued by the Iowa Commission may not be transferred to another person
or entity. We must submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Iowa
Commission.

    Iowa statute stipulates that a referendum must be held in 2002 to reaffirm
gaming in each county that has gaming and further stipulates that similar
referenda be held every eight years thereafter. Minimum and maximum wagers on
games are set by the licensee. Wagering may only be conducted with chips,
wagering

                                       17
<PAGE>
debit cards or coins. Wagers may only be made by persons 21 years of age and
older. A licensee may not accept a credit card to purchase coins, tokens or
other forms of credit to be wagered on gambling games.

    The legislation imposes a graduated tax based on adjusted gross receipts at
the following rates:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    TAX
ADJUSTED GROSS RECEIPTS                             RATE
- -----------------------                           --------
<S>                                               <C>
Up to $1,000,000................................      1%
$1,000,001 to $3,000,000........................     10%
$3,000,001 and above............................     20%
</TABLE>

The tax is to be paid by the licensee within 10 days after the close of business
of the day when the wagers were made.

    An admission tax paid to the City of Sioux City and the Casino's non profit
partner is imposed for each person admitted to the Belle of Sioux City Casino
based upon a graduated scale at the following rates:

                  $2.00 for each passenger up to 300,000
                  $3.00 for each passenger over 300,000 but not over 500,000
                  $3.50 for each passenger over 500,000

Additionally, the Belle of Sioux City is required to pay a fee to Woodbury
County in the amount of $.25 per passenger, up to $300,000.

    Pursuant to its rule making authority, the Iowa Commission requires
officers, directors, owners, partners, joint venturers, trustees or other
persons who have a beneficial interest, direct or indirect, of 5 percent or
more, of the Company to be licensed by the Iowa Commission. The Iowa Commission
has jurisdiction to deny, suspend or revoke the license of an applicant or
licensee in which a director, officer, or holder of a beneficial interest
includes or involves any person or entity which would be, or is, ineligible in
any respect, such as through want of character, moral fitness, financial
responsibility, professional qualifications or due to failure to meet other
criteria employed by the Iowa Commission, to participate in gaming. The Iowa
Commission may order the ineligible person or entity to terminate all
relationships with the licensee or applicant, including divestiture of any
ownership interest or beneficial interest at acquisition cost. Any contract in
excess of $50,000 must be submitted to and approved by the Iowa Commission.

LOUISIANA

    In July 1991, the Louisiana legislature adopted legislation permitting
certain types of gaming activity on certain rivers and waterways in Louisiana.
The legislation granted authority to supervise riverboat gaming activities to
the Louisiana Riverboat Gaming Commission and the Riverboat Gaming Enforcement
Division of the Louisiana State Police (the "Louisiana Enforcement Division").
The Louisiana Riverboat Gaming Commission was authorized to hear and determine
all appeals relative to the granting, suspension, revocation, condition or
renewal of all licenses, permits and applications. In addition, the Louisiana
Riverboat Gaming Commission was to establish rules providing for and
determining, among other things, authorized routes, duration of excursions and
the stops a riverboat may make, minimum levels of insurance, construction of
riverboats, periodic inspections and procedures for negotiable instrument
transactions involving patrons. The Louisiana Enforcement Division was
authorized, among other things, to investigate applicants and issue licenses,
investigate violations of the statute, conduct continuing reviews of gaming
activities and exercise other broad oversight powers. A gaming license is issued
for five years and the Company's license will be subject to renewal in
March 2000.

    In an April 1996 special session of the Louisiana legislature, Louisiana
lawmakers passed a measure which established the Louisiana Gaming Control Board
and provides that such board shall be the successor to all prior authorities,
and the sole and exclusive authority, with regard to the regulation and

                                       18
<PAGE>
supervision of gaming operations and activities in Louisiana except for the
regulation of horse racing and offtrack betting and the conducting of charitable
gaming operations. Effective May 1, 1996, the powers, duties, functions, and
responsibilities of the Louisiana Riverboat Gaming Commission and the Louisiana
Enforcement Division, including those with respect to riverboat gaming, were
transferred to the Louisiana Gaming Control Board. The Louisiana Enforcement
Division retains certain enforcement powers and responsibilities relative to
investigations, audits, and imposing regulatory sanctions that are subject to
administrative review.

    The laws and regulations of Louisiana seek to:

    - prevent unsavory or unsuitable persons from having any direct or indirect
      involvement with gaming at any time or in any capacity;

    - establish and maintain responsible accounting practices and procedures;

    - maintain effective control over the financial practices of licensees,
      including establishing procedures for reliable record keeping and making
      periodic reports to the Board;

    - prevent cheating, and fraudulent practices;

    - provide a source of state and local revenues through fees; and

    - ensure that gaming licensees, to the extent practicable, employ and
      contract with Louisiana residents, women and minorities.

    The Louisiana Act specifies certain restrictions and conditions relating to
the operation of riverboat gaming, including but not limited to the following:

    - in parishes bordering the Red River, gaming may be conducted dockside;
      however, in all other authorized locations, gaming is not permitted while
      a riverboat is docked, other than for forty-five minutes between
      excursions, unless dangerous weather or water conditions exist;

    - each round trip riverboat cruise may not be less than three nor more than
      eight hours in duration, subject to specified exceptions;

    - agents of the Board are permitted on board at any time during gaming
      operations;

    - gaming devices, equipment and supplies may be purchased or leased from
      permitted suppliers;

    - gaming may only take place in the designated gaming areas and upon
      designated rivers or waterways;

    - gaming equipment may not be possessed, maintained, or exhibited by any
      person on a riverboat except in the specifically designated gaming area,
      or a secure area used for inspection, repair, or storage of such
      equipment;

    - wagers may be received only from a person present on a licensed riverboat;

    - persons under 21 are not permitted in designated gaming areas;

    - except for slot machine play, wagers may be made only with tokens, chips
      or electronic cards purchased from the licensee aboard a riverboat;

    - licensees may only use docking facilities and routes for which they are
      licensed and may only board and discharge passengers at the riverboat's
      licensed berth;

    - licensees must have adequate protection and indemnity insurance;

    - licensees must have all necessary federal and state licenses, certificates
      and other regulatory approvals prior to operating a riverboat; and

                                       19
<PAGE>
    - gaming may only be conducted in accordance with the terms of the license
      and the rules and regulations adopted by the Board.

    The transfer of a license or permit or an interest in a license or permit is
prohibited without prior approval of the Louisiana Gaming Control Board. The
sale, purchase, assignment, transfer, pledge or other hypothecation, lease,
disposition or acquisition by any person of securities which represents 5% or
more of the total outstanding shares issued by a corporation that holds a
license is subject to Louisiana Gaming Control Board review and approval or
disapproval. A security issued by a corporation that holds a license must
disclose these restrictions, although a publicly traded corporation incorporated
before January 15, 1992 is only required to include the statement of
restrictions for certificates issued after the corporation applies for a
license. Section 2501 of the regulations enacted by the Louisiana State Police
Riverboat Gaming Division pursuant to the Louisiana Act (the "Regulations")
requires prior written approval of the Board of all persons involved in the
sale, purchase, assignment, lease, grant or foreclosure of a security interest,
hypothecation, transfer, conveyance or acquisition of an ownership interest
(other than in a corporation) or economic interest of five percent (5%) or more
in any licensee.

    Section 2523 of the Regulations requires 60 days prior notification to and
prior approval from the Board of:

    - the application for, receipt, acceptance or modification of a loan;

    - the use of any cash, property, credit, loan or line of credit; or

    - guarantee or granting of other forms of security for a loan by a licensee
      or person acting on a licensee's behalf.

There are exceptions to prior written approval including exceptions for any
transaction for less than $2.5 million in which all of the lending institutions
are federally regulated, or if the transaction involves publicly registered debt
and securities registered with the SEC and sold pursuant to a firm underwriting
agreement.

    The failure of a licensee to comply with the requirements set forth above
may result in the suspension or revocation of that licensee's gaming license.
Additionally, if the Board finds that the individual owner or holder of a
security of a corporate license or intermediary company or any person with an
economic interest in a licensee is not qualified under the Louisiana Act, the
Board may require, under penalty of suspension or revocation of the license,
that the person not:

    - receive dividends or interest on securities of the corporation;

    - exercise directly or indirectly a right conferred by securities of the
      corporation;

    - receive remuneration or economic benefit from the licensee; or

    - continue in an ownership or economic interest in the licensee.

    Fees for conducting gaming activities on a riverboat include:

    - $50,000 per riverboat for the first year of operation and $100,000 per
      year per riverboat thereafter;

    - a state franchise fee of 15% of net gaming proceeds;

    - a state license fee of 3.5% of net gaming proceeds; and

    - a local fee of up to $2.50 per passenger.

    A licensee must periodically report the following information to the Board,
which is not confidential and is to be available for public inspection: the
licensee's net gaming proceeds from all authorized games; the amount of tax paid
on net gaming proceeds; and all quarterly and annual financial statements

                                       20
<PAGE>
presenting historical data that are submitted to the Board, including annual
financial statements that have been audited by an independent certified public
accountant.

    The Board has adopted rules governing the method for approval of the area of
operations and the rules and odds of authorized games and devices permitted, and
prescribing grounds and procedures for the revocation, limitation or suspension
of licenses and permits.

    In April 1996, the Louisiana legislature approved legislation mandating
local option elections to determine whether to prohibit or continue to permit
three individual types of gaming in Louisiana on a parish-by-parish basis. The
referendum was brought before the Louisiana voters at the time of the
November 1996 presidential election. Voters elected to permit riverboat gaming
in all parishes where it is presently conducted and to allow land-based casino
gaming in Orleans Parish. Voters in 31 parishes elected to permit video draw
poker devices, but in 33 parishes, including East Baton Rouge Parish, voters
elected to prohibit the devices in non-casino locations commencing July 1, 1999.

MISSOURI

    Gaming was originally authorized in the State of Missouri on November 3,
1992, although no governmental action was taken to enforce or implement the
original law. On April 29, 1993, Missouri enacted the Missouri Gaming Law which
replaced the original law and established the Missouri Gaming Commission, which
is responsible for the licensing and regulation of riverboat gaming in Missouri.
The number of licenses which may be granted is not limited by statute or
regulation. The Missouri Gaming Law grants specific powers and duties to the
Missouri Gaming Commission to supervise riverboat gaming and implement the
Missouri Gaming Law and take any other action as may be reasonable or
appropriate to enforce the Missouri Gaming Law. The Missouri Gaming Commission
has discretion to approve permanently moored ("dockside") riverboat casinos if
it finds that the best interest of Missouri and the safety of the public
indicate the need for continuous docking of an excursion gambling boat.

    Opponents of gaming in Missouri have brought several legal challenges to
gaming in the past and may possibly bring similar challenges in the future.
There can be no assurances that any future challenges, if brought, would not
further interfere with full-scale gaming operations in Missouri, including the
operations of the Company and its subsidiaries.

    On November 3, 1998, the citizens of the State of Missouri approved a
Constitutional amendment which was proposed by initiative petition, that
retroactively legalized lotteries, gift enterprises and games of chance aboard
excursion gambling boats and floating facilities located within artificial
spaces containing water that are within 1,000 feet of the closest edge of the
main channel of the Mississippi or Missouri Rivers. This amendment to the
Constitution was certified on November 23, 1998.

    Under the Missouri Gaming Law, the ownership and operation of riverboat
gaming facilities in Missouri are subject to extensive state and local
regulation. If a company is granted a gaming license in Missouri, such company,
any subsidiaries it may form and its officers, directors, significant
shareholders and employees will be subject to regulations. The initial license
and first subsequent license renewal of an excursion gambling boat operator
shall be for a period of one year. Thereafter, license renewal periods shall be
two years. The Company's gaming license will be subject to renewal in
June 2000. However, the Missouri Gaming Commission may reopen license hearings
at any time. As part of the application and licensing process for a gaming
license, the applicant must submit detailed financial, operating and other
reports to the Missouri Gaming Commission. Each applicant has an ongoing duty to
update the information provided to the Missouri Gaming Commission in the
application. In addition to the information required of the applicant,
directors, officers and other key persons must submit applications which include
detailed personal financial information and are subject to thorough
investigations. All gaming employees must obtain an annual occupational license
issued by the Missouri Gaming Commission. Operators'

                                       21
<PAGE>
licenses are issued through application to the Missouri Gaming Commission, which
requires, among other things:

    - investigations into an applicant's character, financial responsibility and
      experience qualifications;

    - the submission of an affirmative action plan for the hiring and training
      of minorities and women;

    - the submission of an economic development or impact report.

    License fees are a minimum of $50,000 for the initial application and a
minimum $25,000 annually thereafter.

    The Missouri Gaming Commission may revoke or suspend gaming licenses and
impose other penalties for violation of the Missouri Gaming Law and the rules
and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder. Penalties include, but are
not limited to, forfeiture of all gaming equipment used in the conduct of
unauthorized gambling games and fines of up to three times a licensee's highest
daily gross receipts derived from wagering on the gambling games, whether
authorized or unauthorized, conducted during the preceding twelve months. In
addition, the Missouri Gaming Commission requires 60 days notice of, and may
disapprove or require delay pending further investigation of, transactions in
excess of the greater of $500,000 or 30% of licensee's net worth, up to
$1,000,000, which transactions involve or relate to the gaming licensee.

    Pursuant to its rule making authority, the Missouri Gaming Commission has
adopted certain regulations which provide, among other things, that:

    (1) riverboat excursions are limited to a duration of four hours, and gaming
       may be conducted at any time during the excursion;

    (2) no gaming licensee or occupational licensee may pledge, hypothecate or
       transfer in any way any license, or any interest in a license, issued by
       the Missouri Gaming Commission;

    (3) without first notifying the Missouri Gaming Commission at least 60 days
       prior to such consummation of any of the following transactions (and
       during such period the Missouri Gaming Commission may disapprove the
       transaction or require the transaction to be delayed pending further
       investigation):

       (a) any transfer or issuance of an ownership interest in a gaming
           licensee (or holding company) that is not a publicly held entity or

       (b) any pledge or hypothecation of, or grant of any type of security
           interest (collectively, a "lien") in, an ownership interest in a
           gaming licensee (or a holding company) that is not a publicly held
           entity (which lien may only be made to or held by a financial
           institution), provided that no such ownership interest may be
           transferred pursuant to any such lien without a separate notice being
           given to the Missouri Gaming Commission;

    (4) at least 15 day's prior notice must be given to the Missouri Gaming
       Commission of the intention to consummate any of the following
       transactions (and the Missouri Gaming Commission may reopen the licensing
       hearing of the applicable gaming licensee prior to or following the
       consummation of such transaction to consider the effect of the
       transaction on the gaming licensee's suitability):

       (a) any issuance of ownership interests in a publicly held gaming
           licensee (or holding company), if such issuance would involve,
           directly or indirectly, an amount of ownership interests equaling 5%
           or more of the ownership interests in the gaming licensee (or holding
           company),

       (b) any private incurrence of debt of $1,000,000 or more by a Class A
           licensee (or any affiliated holding company),

                                       22
<PAGE>
       (c) any public issuance of debt by a Class A licensee (or any affiliated
           holding company) or

       (d) any significant related party transactions;

    (5) consummation of the following transactions must be reported to the
       Missouri Gaming Commission no later than 7 days after such consummation:

       (a) any transfer or issuance of ownership interests in a publicly held
           gaming licensee (or holding company), if such transfer or issuance
           has resulted in any entity or group of entities acting in concert
           owning, directly or indirectly, a total amount of ownership interests
           equaling 5% or more of the ownership interests in the gaming licensee
           or holding company or

       (b) the creation of any lien in 5% or more of the ownership interests in
           a publicly held gaming licensee (or holding company), provided that
           no such ownership interest may be transferred voluntarily or
           involuntarily pursuant to any such lien without a separate notice
           being given to the Missouri Gaming Commission;

    (6) any Class A licensee must notify the Missouri Gaming Commission of its
       intention or the intention of any affiliated entity to consummate any
       transaction that involves or relates to the gaming licensee and has a
       dollar value of $1,000,000 or more no later than 7 days after the
       consummation of such transaction;

    (7) the license held by a gaming licensee automatically becomes null and
       void upon any change in control of the licensee (or its holding company)
       unless the Missouri Gaming Commission has given its prior approval for
       such change in control;

    (8) no withdrawals of capital, loans, advances or distributions of any type
       of assets in excess of 5% of the accumulated earnings of a Class A
       licensee to anyone with an ownership interest in the licensee may occur
       without the prior approval of the Missouri Gaming Commission;

    (9) the Missouri Gaming Commission may take appropriate action against a
       licensee or other person who has been disciplined in another jurisdiction
       for gaming related activity; and

    (10) no holder of a Class A license may enter into any contract relating to
       its licensed activities for consideration in excess of fair market value.

    The Missouri Gaming Law imposes operational requirements on riverboat
operators, including a charge of two dollars per gaming customer per excursion
that licensees must pay to the Missouri Gaming Commission, a minimum payout
requirement of 80% for gambling devices, a 20% tax on adjusted gross receipts,
prohibitions against providing credit to gaming customers (except for the use of
credit cards and cashing checks) and a requirement that each licensee reimburse
the Missouri Gaming Commission for all costs of any Missouri Gaming Commission
staff necessary to protect the public on the licensee's riverboat. Licensees
must also submit to the Commission on a quarterly basis an audit of compliance
and of the financial transactions and condition of the licensee's total
operations for the calendar quarter and pay the associated auditing fees. The
Missouri Gaming Law provides for a loss limit of $500 per person per excursion.
Although the Missouri Gaming Law provides no limit on the amount of riverboat
space that may be used for gaming, the Missouri Gaming Commission is empowered
to impose such space limitations through the adoption of rules and regulations.
Additionally, U.S. Coast Guard safety regulations could affect the amount of
riverboat space that may be devoted to gaming. The Missouri Gaming Law also
includes requirements as to the form of riverboats, which must resemble
Missouri's riverboat history to the extent practicable and include certain
non-gaming amenities. With respect to the availability of dockside gaming, which
may be more profitable than cruise gaming, the Missouri Gaming Commission is
empowered to determine on a site by site basis where such gaming is in the best
interest of Missouri and the safety of the public and shall be permitted. All
licensees currently operating riverboat gaming operations in Missouri are
authorized to conduct all or a portion of their operations on a dockside basis.
We began dockside operations in August 1995. Dockside gaming in Missouri may
differ from dockside gaming in

                                       23
<PAGE>
other states, such as Mississippi, because the Missouri Gaming Commission has
the ability to require "simulated cruising." This requirement permits customers
to board dockside riverboats only at specific times and prohibits boarding
during a certain portion of each simulated cruise, which are required to be a
minimum of two hours and a maximum of four hours. Dockside gaming in Missouri
may not be as profitable as dockside gaming in other states, that allow for
continuous customer ingress and egress.

    The licensee may receive wagers only from a person present on a licensed
excursion gambling boat. Wagering shall not be conducted with money or other
negotiable currency. A person under 21 years of age may not make a wager on an
excursion gambling boat and may not be allowed in the area of the excursion boat
where gambling is being conducted.

    The Missouri Gaming Commission is authorized to enter the premises of
excursion gambling boats, facilities, or other places of business of a licensee
in Missouri to determine compliance with the Missouri Gaming Law and to
investigate alleged violations of the Missouri Gaming Law or Missouri Gaming
Commission rules, orders or final decisions. A holder of any license shall be
subject to imposition of penalties, suspension or revocation of such license, or
other action for any act or failure to act by himself or his agents or employees
that is injurious to the public health, safety, morals, good order and general
welfare of the people of the state of Missouri, or that would discredit the
Missouri gaming industry or the state of Missouri. The Missouri Gaming
Commission may waive any licensing requirement or procedure for any type of
license if it determines that the waiver is in the best interests of the public.
In addition, an annual supplier's license is required of persons who sell or
lease gambling equipment, gambling supplies or both to any licensee. A licensee
licensed to conduct gambling games shall acquire all gambling games or
implements of gambling from a licensed supplier.

LEGISLATIVE AND REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS IN CERTAIN ADJACENT JURISDICTIONS

    KANSAS.  Casino gaming is currently illegal in Kansas as a constitutionally
prohibited form of lottery. In order to amend the Kansas constitution,
two-thirds of the members of each house of the Kansas legislature and a majority
of Kansas voters would have to approve a proposed amendment. Several Kansas
racetracks have publicly lobbied for the right to conduct casino games. In early
1999, the Kansas state legislature failed to pass a bill which would have
authorized casino gambling within its borders.

    The State of Kansas has approved Class III Indian compacts with four
separate tribes authorizing the tribes to conduct table and keno games, but not
slot machines, on their respective reservation lands. One such casino is open
and is located approximately 60 miles from Kansas City.

    KENTUCKY.  Casino gaming is illegal in Kentucky as a constitutionally
prohibited form of lottery. In order to amend the Kentucky constitution,
three-fifths of the members of each house of the Kentucky legislature and a
majority of Kentucky voters would have to approve a proposed amendment. Several
Kentucky racetracks have publicly lobbied for the right to conduct casino games
and the current governor of Kentucky recently has withdrawn a previously
proposed constitutional amendment to allow 12 to 14 land-based casinos to
operate, mainly along Kentucky's borders, at convention hotels. The Kentucky
attorney general's office has stated that a constitutional amendment is
necessary to permit casino gaming.

    OHIO.  Casino gaming is illegal in Ohio as a constitutionally prohibited
form of lottery. In order to amend the Ohio constitution, three-fifths of the
members of each house of the Ohio legislature and a majority of Ohio voters
would have to approve any proposed amendment.

    NEBRASKA. A number of efforts to expand gaming in Nebraska failed during
1996. After an effort to present a statewide referendum on legalizing casino
gaming failed in the Nebraska legislature, three separate voter petition drives
also failed. A proposed constitutional amendment which would allow casino
gambling on Indian lands in Nebraska subject to a vote of the people was
introduced in the Nebraska legislature in January 2000. The Resolution failed to
receive the necessary five affirmative committee votes needed to advance for
further consideration.

                                       24
<PAGE>
FEDERAL AND NON-GAMING REGULATIONS

    We are subject to certain federal, state and local safety and health laws,
regulations and ordinances that apply to businesses generally, such as the Clean
Air Act, Clean Water Act, Occupational Safety and Health Act, Resource
Conservation Recovery Act and Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and Liability Act. We have not made, and do not anticipate making, material
expenditures with respect to such environmental laws and regulations. However,
the coverage and attendant compliance costs associated with such laws,
regulations and ordinances may result in additional costs to us. For example, in
1990 the U.S. Congress enacted the Oil Pollution Act to consolidate and
reconcile mechanisms under various oil spill response laws. The Department of
Transportation has proposed regulations requiring owners and operators of
certain vessels to establish through the U.S. Coast Guard evidence of financial
responsibility in the amount of $5.5 million for clean-up of oil pollution. This
requirement would be satisfied by either proof of adequate insurance (including
self-insurance) or the posting of a surety bond or guaranty.

    All vessels operated by us must comply with U.S. Coast Guard requirements as
to safety and must hold a Certificate of Seaworthiness or must be approved by
the American Bureau of Shipping ("ABS") for stabilization and flotation, and may
also be subject to local zoning and building codes. These requirements set
limits on the operation of the vessels and require individual licensing of all
personnel involved with the operation of the vessel. Loss of the Certificate of
Seaworthiness of a vessel would preclude its use as a riverboat. Every five
years, the outside of the hull of the vessels must be inspected. The U.S. Coast
Guard has developed a pilot program which utilizes underwater equipment to
complete a hull inspection while the vessel remains in service. This procedure
was utilized to inspect the Alton casino in February 1998. If the procedure is
ever disapproved by the U. S. Coast Guard, we would be required to remove a
riverboat from service and seek to lease another riverboat casino or discontinue
operations for the inspection period.

    All of our shipboard employees employed on U.S. Coast Guard regulated
vessels, including those who have nothing to do with the actual operation of the
vessel, such as dealers, waiters and security personnel, may be subject to the
Jones Act which, among other things, exempts these employees from state limits
on workers' compensation awards.

    We are subject to the provisions of the Americans With Disabilities Act but
do not anticipate incurring significant expenses to bring our facilities or
procedures into compliance with such Act.

    The Bank Secrecy Act (the "BSA"), enacted by Congress in 1985, requires
banks, other financial institutions and casinos to monitor receipts and
disbursements of currency in excess of $10,000 and report them to the United
States Department of the Treasury (the "Treasury"). In management's opinion, the
BSA may have resulted in a reduction in the volume of play by high level
wagerers. The Treasury has proposed tentative amendments to the BSA which would
apply solely to casinos and their reporting of currency transactions. The most
significant proposed change in the BSA is a reduction in the threshold at which
customer identification data must be obtained and documented by the casino, from
$10,000 to $3,000 (which may include the aggregation of smaller denomination
transactions). Additionally, the amendments would substantially increase the
record-keeping requirements imposed upon casinos relating to customer data,
currency and non-currency transactions. Management believes the proposed
amendments, if enacted in their current form, could result in a further
reduction in the volume of play by upper-and middle-level wagerers while adding
operating costs associated with the more extensive record-keeping requirements.
However, we do not expect that the effect on our operations would be material.

                                       25
<PAGE>
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

    The following is a list of the Company's principal properties as of
December 31, 1999. Substantially all of the properties of the Company are
subject to the lien of the Company's senior lenders under its $235 million First
Mortgage Note Indenture dated June 5, 1996 and its $200 million Senior Secured
Credit Facility Agreement dated June 8, 1999.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                 INTEREST               FUNCTION (1)                 LEASE EXPIRATION
                                 --------   ------------------------------------  -----------------------
<S>                              <C>        <C>                                   <C>
ALTON, ILLINOIS
Office Building                  Leased     Executive Offices
Real Property                    Leased     Landing Rights
Alton Belle II                   Owned      Riverboat Casino
Office Building                  Owned      Offices
Support Barges                   Owned      Landing and Office facilities         Month to Month
Spirit of America Barge          Owned      Staging Vessel                        April 2001(3)

RIVERSIDE, MISSOURI
Real Property                    Leased     Landing Rights
Real Property                    Owned      Permanent Landing Site
Argosy IV                        Owned      Riverboat Casino                      December 2004(3)

BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA
Real Property                    Owned      Vessel Access
Argosy III                       Owned      Riverboat Casino
Support Barge                    Owned      Staging Barge

LAWRENCEBURG, INDIANA(2)
Real Property                    Owned      Permanent Landing Site
Argosy VI                        Owned      Riverboat Casino
Docking Site                     Leased     Vessel Dock                           December 2002(3)

SIOUX CITY, IOWA
Argosy V                         Owned      Riverboat Casino
Support Barge                    Owned      Staging Barge
Real Property                    Leased     Landing Rights                        June 2002
</TABLE>

- ------------------------

(1) A significant portion of the Company's land-based assets are not covered by
    flood insurance for any loss or damage that may result from flooding.

(2) Owned by a partnership pursuant to which the Company, through a wholly-owned
    subsidiary, has a 57.5% partnership interest and serves as general partner.

(3) Renewal options available.

                                       26
<PAGE>
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The Company is from time to time a party to legal proceedings arising in the
ordinary course of business. Other than as disclosed below, the Company is
unaware of any legal proceedings which, even if the outcome were unfavorable to
the Company, would have a material adverse impact on either its financial
condition or results of operations.

    CAPITOL HOUSE PRESERVATION COMPANY, L.L.C. V. JAZZ ENTERPRISES, INC. ET. AL.

    In July 1995, Capitol House Preservation Company, L.L.C. ("Capitol House")
filed a cause of action in the U.S. District Court of the Middle District of
Louisiana against Jazz, the former shareholders of Jazz ("Former Jazz
Shareholders"), Catfish Queen Partnership (the "Partnership"), Argosy of
Louisiana, Inc. ("Argosy Louisiana") and the Company alleging that Jazz and
Argosy obtained the gaming license for Baton Rouge based upon false and
fraudulent pretenses and declarations and financial misrepresentations. The
complaint alleges unfair trade practices as well as violations of RICO and seeks
damages of $158 million plus court costs and attorneys' fees. The plaintiff was
an applicant for a gaming license in Baton Rouge whose application was denied by
the Louisiana Gaming Enforcement Division.

    On June 7, 1995, the Company consummated its purchase of all of the
outstanding capital stock of Jazz from the Former Jazz Shareholders. The Company
intends to seek indemnification from the Former Jazz Shareholders for any
liability the Company, Argosy Louisiana or Jazz suffers as a result of such
cause of action. As part of the consideration payable by the Company to the
Former Jazz Shareholders for the acquisition of Jazz, the Company agreed at the
time of such acquisition to annual deferred purchase price payments of
$1,350,000 for each of the first ten years after closing and $500,000 for each
of the next ten years. Payments are to be made quarterly by the Company. The
definitive acquisition documents provide the Company with offset rights against
such deferred purchase price payments for indemnification claims of the Company
against the Former Jazz Shareholders and for liabilities that the Former Jazz
Shareholders contractually agreed to retain. There can be no assurance that the
Former Jazz Shareholders will have assets sufficient to satisfy any claim in
excess of the Company's offset rights.

    The defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss, or alternatively to abstain and
stay the action, pending resolution of certain Louisiana state court claims
filed by Capitol House. The trial court decided in favor of the defendants and
dismissed the suit without prejudice to the rights of plaintiff to revive the
suit after the conclusion of the pending state court matters. The plaintiff
appealed this dismissal to the U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. While the
appeal was pending, several of the Louisiana state court claims were resolved.
On March 11, 1997, the U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals vacated the trial
court's dismissal and remanded the case to the district court for further
proceedings. The defendants have re-urged the previously filed motion to
dismiss. On November 17, 1997, the district court granted the motion and
dismissed, with prejudice, all of the federal claims under RICO. The claims of
Capitol House that arose under Louisiana state law were dismissed, without
prejudice. Capitol House filed an appeal of the district court dismissal on
January 9, 1998, with the U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. On November 4,
1998, the Fifth Circuit affirmed the district court's dismissal of Capitol
House's RICO claims. This matter is now concluded in federal court.

    Additionally, Capitol House filed an amended petition in the Nineteenth
Judicial District Court for East Baton Rouge Parish, State of Louisiana, on
November 26, 1997, amending its previously filed but unserved suit against
Richard Perryman, the person selected by the Louisiana Gaming Division to
evaluate and rank the applicants seeking a gaming license for East Baton Rouge
Parish, and now adding its state law claims against Jazz, the Former Jazz
Shareholders, Argosy Gaming Company, Argosy of Louisiana, Inc. and Catfish Queen
Partnership in Commendam, d/b/a the Belle of Baton Rouge Casino. This suit
alleges that these parties violated the Louisiana Unfair Trade Practices Act in
connection with obtaining the gaming license that was issued to the Company. The
suit alleges the same, or substantially similar, facts that formed the basis of
the federal claim which was dismissed on November 17, 1997. The defendants

                                       27
<PAGE>
have filed a Peremptory Exception of No Cause of Action, Peremption and
Prescription and Exception of Lis Pendens in response to Capitol House's state
court suit. A hearing on these exceptions was held June 1, 1998. The Court
granted the exception and dismissed the suit as to Argosy Gaming Company, Argosy
of Louisiana, Inc. and Catfish Queen Partnership in Commendam, d/b/a the Belle
of Baton Rouge Casino. The Court denied the exception as to Jazz and the Former
Jazz Shareholders. On behalf of Jazz and the Former Jazz Shareholders, a
supervisory writ was filed with the First Circuit Court of Appeal, State of
Louisiana, seeking a dismissal of the claims. Capitol House has also appealed
the dismissal of the claims as to the other parties. On December 10, 1998, the
Court of Appeal granted a hearing and then denied the supervisory writs of Jazz
and the Former Jazz Shareholders and affirmed the ruling of the trial court.
Jazz and the Former Jazz Shareholders filed a Motion for Rehearing before the
Court of Appeal, which was ultimately denied. Thereafter, Jazz and the Former
Jazz Shareholders filed a writ of certiorari to the Louisiana Supreme Court,
which writ was also denied. Jazz and the Former Jazz Shareholders are now
conducting discovery and intend to file additional exceptions and/or motions for
summary judgment in the trial court. Capitol House's appeal of the trial court's
dismissal of Argosy Gaming Company, Argosy of Louisiana, Inc. and Catfish Queen
Partnership in Commendam was finally argued before the First Circuit, which
reversed the trial court's ruling and overturned the defendants' peremptory
exception of no cause of action thereby causing these defendants to return to
this litigation. Argosy, Argosy of Louisiana and the Partnership have filed a
writ or certiorari with the Louisiana Supreme Court which is still pending. The
Louisiana Supreme Court denied to grant the defendants' writ application, thus
defendants will be joined with Jazz and the Former Jazz Shareholders to assert
their additional defenses in this matter by various exceptions and/or motions
for summary judgment. An adverse ruling in this matter could have a material
adverse effect on the Company.

    GAMEDEV OF SIOUX CITY, INC. F/K/A SIOUX CITY RIVERBOAT CORP., INC. V. ARGOSY
     GAMING COMPANY AND IOWA GAMING COMPANY

    This suit was filed on June 11, 1998 in the Iowa District Court in Woodbury
County, Iowa. Gamedev of Sioux City, Inc. ("Gamedev"), the limited partner of
the limited partnership, Belle of Sioux City, L.P., seeks damages based on
claims of breach of fiduciary duty and misrepresentation against the defendants.
Iowa Gaming Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is the general
partner of the Belle of Sioux City, L.P. On July 21, 1998, the defendants
responded to the Petition by filing a motion to dismiss on the grounds that
plaintiff's claims are derivative in nature, and that plaintiff has failed to
comply with the demand requirements under Iowa limited partnership law. Also,
plaintiff is not entitled to an equitable accounting because it has an adequate
remedy at law. In response, on August 4, 1998, plaintiff filed a First Amended
and Substituted Petition and added claims for fraudulent misrepresentation,
breach of the partnership agreement, and breach of the management agreement.
Defendants filed a motion to dismiss based on substantially similar grounds and
requested a more specific statement on the claims for breach of contract. On
September 25, 1998, the court denied the motion to dismiss and granted the
request for a more specific statement. Plaintiff subsequently filed a Second
Amended Petition on October 14, 1998. Plaintiff has since filed a Third and
Fourth Amended Petition, adding a claim for fraudulent nondisclosure. The Court
has denied one of Argosy's motions for partial summary judgment. The Court has
scheduled May 30, 2000 for the trial date. The discovery cutoff deadline for the
parties is April 28, 2000. Plaintiff designated its experts on February 28,
2000, and defendants must designate their experts by April 17, 2000. A
settlement conference, if required, is set for May 24, 2000. The parties have
exchanged discovery. Depositions are proceeding. The Company is unable to
determine what effect, if any, the suit would have on its business or
operations.

    PENDING INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE AUDIT

    In November 1994, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") began a combined
audit for the 1992 and 1993 tax years of Argosy Gaming Company (the "Company"),
and the Company's predecessors in interest, Metro Tourism & Entertainment, Inc.
("Metro"), Alton Riverboat Gambling Partnership ("ARGP").

                                       28
<PAGE>
Metro and J. Connors Group, Inc. ("Connors") were the partners of ARGP which
until the Company's initial public offering in February 1993 owned and operated
the Alton, Illinois riverboat casino. The principal issues raised by the IRS
involve the status of Metro as an S corporation and the deductibility of the
$8.5 million accommodation fee paid to William McEnery in 1992 and 1993. The
total Federal income tax liability asserted by the IRS against the Company is
approximately $11.5 million including interest through December 31, 1999. The
Company is currently contesting the proposed adjustments with the IRS Appeals
Office. Management does not expect the lawsuit will have a material adverse
effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

    STEVEN B. SMALL ET AL. V. HARRAHS ET AL.

    In November 1997, the Missouri Supreme Court issued a ruling striking down a
legislative definition of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers in the context of
a constitutional amendment permitting gaming on the Missouri and Mississippi
Rivers. Following the decision of the Missouri Supreme Court, Steven B. Small
filed a putative class action against the Missouri Gaming Company and other
gaming companies in the Kansas City area in the United States District Court for
the Western District of Missouri. STATE OF MISSOURI, EX. REL. STEVEN B. SMALL,
ET AL., V. HARRAH'S NORTH KANSAS CITY CORP., ET, AL. Small asserted that the
licenses of the Missouri Gaming Company and the other defendants were invalid
and that the defendants were violating federal and state laws, including the
Racketeer Influenced Corrupt Organizations Act. Small also asserted that the
Missouri Gaming Company and other defendants threatened him in violation of the
Hobbs Act. Small also claimed that for a period of time the Missouri Gaming
Company's boat cruised into Kansas. Small sought to recover his losses as well
as all losses sustained by the putative class plus injunctive relief.

    Small never obtained certification of a class. In June 1998, the District
Court of Missouri dismissed Small's action against the Missouri Gaming Company.
Small appealed the decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit. THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI, ET AL. V. HARRAH'S--NORTH KANSAS
CITY CORPORATION, ET AL. The Eighth Circuit affirmed the District Court's
decision.

    On October 30, 1998, Small filed an action seeking declaratory relief in the
Circuit Court of the Circuit Court of Cole County, Missouri. The relief sought
was a declaration that the gaming operators were conducting illegal games of
chance. The Circuit Court of Cole County dismissed Small's action without
providing the relief sought. Small has appealed the decision to the Missouri
Court of Appeals for the Western District of Missouri. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF
MISSOURI EX. RE. STEVEN B. SMALL, APPELLANT V. HARRAH'S NORTH KANSAS CITY CORP.,
ET AL. The appeal remains pending. Management believes that the claims are
without merit and does not expect that the lawsuit will have a material adverse
effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

    CONSERVANCY DISTRICT LEASE LITIGATION IN DEARBORN COUNTY, INDIANA

    On March 21, 1997, Deborah S. Whitacre filed an action in the Circuit Court
of Dearborn County, Indiana as Cause No. 15CO1-9703-CP-073, challenging the
validity of a lease to the City by the Conservancy District of Lawrenceburg,
Indiana (the "District") of certain land owned by the District, which land has
in turn been subleased by the City to the Company's affiliate Indiana Gaming
L.P. and is being used for development and operation of the riverboat gaming
facility in the City for which Indiana Gaming L.P. has been awarded a riverboat
owner's license by the Commission. Defendants are the District and its
individual directors. In 1998, Indiana Gaming L.P. was permitted to intervene
and is now contesting the action. The District and its directors have advised
that they are contesting the action and intend to continue to do so. An adverse
ruling in this matter could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

    GAMING INDUSTRY CLASS ACTIONS

    The Company has been named, along with two gaming equipment suppliers, 41 of
the country's largest gaming operators and four gaming distributors (the "Gaming
Industry Defendants") in three class

                                       29
<PAGE>
action lawsuits pending in Las Vegas, Nevada. The suits allege that the Gaming
Industry Defendants violated the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
Act ("RICO") by engaging in a course of fraudulent and misleading conduct
intended to induce people to play their gaming machines based upon a false
belief concerning how those gaming machines actually operate, as well as to the
extent to which there is actually an opportunity to win on any given play. The
suits seek unspecified compensatory and punitive damages. On January 14, 1997,
the Court consolidated all three actions under the case name WILLIAM H. POULOS,
ETC. V. CAESARS WORLD, INC., ET AL. On February 13, 1997 the plaintiffs filed a
consolidated amended complaint. The Court subsequently dismissed this complaint,
in part, and on January 8, 1998, the plaintiffs filed a second amended
complaint. The parties have fully briefed the Plaintiff's motion for class
certification and are awaiting a decision from the court. On June 22, 1999 the
Court ordered that the plaintiffs could conduct limited class discovery on the
defendants promotional and advertising documents. The Plaintiff's currently are
conducting such discovery. The Company is unable to determine what effect, if
any, the suit would have on its business or operations.

    INTERIM HOLDINGS, L.L.C. VS. ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY, ET AL

    On January 6, 2000, the Company was named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed
by Interim Holdings, L.L.C., in the Circuit Court of St. Louis County, Missouri,
in a case styled INTERIM HOLDINGS, L.L.C. V. ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY, ET AL. The
Company has removed the case to federal court, where a motion for remand is
pending. The lawsuit is styled as a "bill in equity." It concerns a loan and
consulting agreement entered into between Argosy and a Floyd Warmann and Interim
Holdings, Inc., as part of Argosy's attempt to obtain lease rights for a gaming
facility in downtown St. Louis. The complaint alleges that Argosy's consulting
payments and loans to Warmann, in return for his working to obtain lease rights
for a potential St. Louis gaming facility, defrauded the creditors of Warmann.
Management believes that the claims are without merit and does not expect that
the lawsuit will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
position or results of operations.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    None

                                       30
<PAGE>
                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    Incorporated by reference from Proxy Statement, page 18, section entitled
Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                     --------------------------------------------------------------
                                        1999         1998         1997         1996         1995
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
                                           (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
<S>                                  <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA:
  Net revenues.....................  $  594,554   $  506,668   $  344,083   $  244,817   $  252,691
  Income (loss) from operations....     123,025       87,811        6,530      (10,751)      27,662
  Net income (loss)................      11,479        5,741      (40,213)     (24,839)       6,953
  Diluted net income (loss)........        0.40         0.23        (1.65)       (1.02)        0.29
    Weighted average diluted common
      shares outstanding...........  28,920,656   24,604,485   24,333,333   24,333,333   24,333,333
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
PRO FORMA NET INCOME DATA
  (UNAUDITED):(1)
  Pro forma net income.............                                                      $    5,712
  Diluted pro forma net income per
    share..........................                                                            0.23
  Pro forma, diluted shares
    outstanding....................                                                      24,333,333
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
BALANCE SHEET DATA (AT END OF
  PERIOD):
  Total assets.....................  $  566,860   $  562,752   $  559,856   $  530,528   $  309,882
  Long-term debt, including current
  maturities.......................     379,373      424,000      449,790      380,208      169,702
  Total stockholders' equity.......      58,245       40,863       32,663       72,701       97,540
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
</TABLE>

- ------------------------

(1) Pro forma net income per share for the year ended December 31, 1995, reflect
    the Company's June 7, 1995, acquisition of Jazz Enterprises, Inc. as if the
    acquisition had occurred on January 1, 1995.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
  OF OPERATIONS

    Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, pages 26-33 entitled
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations."

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The following consolidated financial statements of Argosy Gaming Company are
included in this report:

AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY

    Incorporated by reference from the Annual Report, pages 34-55, sections
entitled "Consolidated Balance Sheets", "Consolidated Statements of Operations",
"Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows", "Consolidated Statements of
Stockholders' Equity", "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" and "Report
of Independent Auditors".

                                       31
<PAGE>
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF GUARANTOR SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY'S FIRST
MORTGAGE NOTES PROVIDED PURSUANT TO RULE 3-10 OF REGULATION S-X.

<TABLE>
<S>                                                           <C>
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ALTON GAMING COMPANY
            Report of Independent Auditors..................     33
            Balance Sheets..................................     34
            Statements of Income............................     35
            Statements of Stockholder's Equity..............     36
            Statements of Cash Flows........................     37
            Notes to Financial Statements...................     38
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE MISSOURI GAMING COMPANY
            Report of Independent Auditors..................     42
            Balance Sheets..................................     43
            Statements of Operations........................     44
            Statements of Stockholder's Equity..............     45
            Statements of Cash Flows........................     46
            Notes to Financial Statements...................     47
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ARGOSY OF LOUISIANA,
INC.
            Report of Independent Auditors..................     51
            Consolidated Balance Sheets.....................     52
            Consolidated Statements of Operations...........     53
            Consolidated Statements of Stockholder's
              Deficit.......................................     54
            Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows...........     55
            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements......     56
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CATFISH QUEEN PARTNERSHIP IN
COMMENDAM
            Report of Independent Auditors..................     61
            Balance Sheets..................................     62
            Statements of Operations........................     63
            Statements of Partners' Equity..................     64
            Statements of Cash Flows........................     65
            Notes to Financial Statements...................     66
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF JAZZ ENTERPRISES, INC.
            Report of Independent Auditors..................     70
            Balance Sheets..................................     71
            Statements of Operations........................     72
            Statements of Stockholder's Deficit.............     73
            Statements of Cash Flows........................     74
            Notes to Financial Statements...................     75
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE INDIANA GAMING
COMPANY
            Report of Independent Auditors..................     80
            Consolidated Balance Sheets.....................     81
            Consolidated Statements of Operations...........     82
            Consolidated Statements of Stockholder's
              Equity........................................     83
            Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows...........     84
            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements......     85
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF INDIANA GAMING COMPANY, L.P.
            Report of Independent Auditors..................     91
            Balance Sheets..................................     92
            Statements of Income............................     93
            Statements of Partners' Equity..................     94
            Statements of Cash Flows........................     95
            Notes to Financial Statements...................     96
</TABLE>

                                       32
<PAGE>
                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Board of Directors
Alton Gaming Company

    We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Alton Gaming Company as
of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related statements of income,
stockholder's equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1999. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Alton Gaming Company at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of its operations and its cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

                                          Ernst & Young LLP

Chicago, Illinois
January 28, 2000

                                       33
<PAGE>
                              ALTON GAMING COMPANY
                                 BALANCE SHEETS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
CURRENT ASSETS:
  Cash......................................................  $ 4,260    $ 4,383
  Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful
    accounts of $53 and $255, respectively..................      363        125
  Deferred income taxes.....................................      734        616
  Other current assets......................................      765        986
                                                              -------    -------
    Total current assets....................................    6,122      6,110
                                                              -------    -------
  Due from affiliates.......................................    3,485     10,046
  Net property and equipment................................   46,252     26,808
  Other assets..............................................        2          2
                                                              -------    -------
    TOTAL ASSETS............................................  $55,861    $42,966
                                                              =======    =======

CURRENT LIABILITIES:
  Accounts payable..........................................  $ 7,798    $ 1,597
  Accrued payroll and related expenses......................    1,692      1,515
  Income taxes payable to affiliate.........................    3,298         --
  Slot club liability.......................................      620        727
  Other accrued liabilities.................................    1,359      1,309
  Accrued insurance.........................................    1,710      1,073
                                                              -------    -------
    Total current liabilities...............................   16,477      6,221
                                                              -------    -------
OTHER LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS-RELATED PARTY...................      218        201
DEFERRED INCOME TAXES.......................................    2,813      3,201

STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY:
  Common stock--$1 par value, 1,000 shares authorized,
    issued and outstanding..................................        1          1
  Capital in excess of par..................................      256        256
  Retained earnings.........................................   36,096     33,086
                                                              -------    -------
    Total stockholder's equity..............................   36,353     33,343
                                                              -------    -------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY..................  $55,861    $42,966
                                                              =======    =======
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       34
<PAGE>
                              ALTON GAMING COMPANY
                              STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
REVENUES:
  Casino....................................................  $84,664    $67,798    $61,877
  Food, beverage and other..................................    6,262      6,564      7,433
                                                              -------    -------    -------
                                                               90,926     74,362     69,310
  Less promotional allowances...............................   (2,847)    (2,298)    (2,102)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Net revenues................................................   88,079     72,064     67,208
                                                              -------    -------    -------

COSTS AND EXPENSES:
  Casino....................................................   37,201     31,466     31,672
  Food, beverage and other..................................    5,096      5,728      7,113
  Other operating expenses..................................    5,583      5,398      5,623
  Selling, general and administrative.......................   12,811     11,637     10,856
  Allocation of corporate costs-related party...............    2,952      1,869      2,247
  Depreciation and amortization.............................    4,273      3,985      4,455
                                                              -------    -------    -------
                                                               67,916     60,083     61,966
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Income from operations......................................   20,163     11,981      5,242
                                                              -------    -------    -------

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE):
  Interest income...........................................      178         64         70
  Interest expense..........................................     (102)       (78)       (14)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
                                                                   76        (14)        56
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Income before income taxes..................................   20,239     11,967      5,298
Income tax expense..........................................    7,967      4,748      2,002
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Net income..................................................  $12,272    $ 7,219    $ 3,296
                                                              =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       35
<PAGE>
                              ALTON GAMING COMPANY
                       STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY
                       (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     CAPITAL IN                  TOTAL
                                                           COMMON    EXCESS OF    RETAINED   STOCKHOLDER'S
                                                SHARES     STOCK        PAR       EARNINGS      EQUITY
                                               --------   --------   ----------   --------   -------------
<S>                                            <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>
Balance, December 31, 1996...................   1,000        $1         $256      $35,988       $36,245
  Net income.................................      --        --           --        3,296         3,296
  Dividends..................................      --        --           --       (5,765)       (5,765)
                                                -----        --         ----      -------       -------
Balance, December 31, 1997...................   1,000         1          256       33,519        33,776
  Net income.................................      --        --           --        7,219         7,219
  Dividends..................................      --        --           --       (7,652)       (7,652)
                                                -----        --         ----      -------       -------
Balance, December 31, 1998...................   1,000         1          256       33,086        33,343
  Net income.................................      --        --           --       12,272        12,272
  Dividends..................................      --        --           --       (9,262)       (9,262)
                                                -----        --         ----      -------       -------
Balance, December 31, 1999...................   1,000        $1         $256      $36,096       $36,353
                                                =====        ==         ====      =======       =======
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       36
<PAGE>
                              ALTON GAMING COMPANY
                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Net income..................................................  $12,272     $7,219     $3,296
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
  operating activities:
  Depreciation and amortization.............................    4,273      3,985      4,455
  Loss on disposal of equipment.............................      412         26         90
  Deferred income taxes.....................................     (506)      (470)       192
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
    Accounts receivable.....................................     (238)        86        119
    Other current assets....................................     (196)      (647)       (28)
    Accounts payable........................................    6,201        798       (748)
    Other accrued liabilities...............................      746        240         96
    Income taxes payable to affiliate.......................    3,309       (225)       214
                                                              -------     ------     ------
      Net cash provided by operating activities.............   26,273     11,012      7,686
                                                              -------     ------     ------

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  Purchases of property and equipment.......................  (19,712)    (3,158)    (1,686)
                                                              -------     ------     ------
      Net cash used in investing activities.................  (19,712)    (3,158)    (1,686)
                                                              -------     ------     ------

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
  Dividends paid............................................   (9,262)    (7,652)    (5,765)
  Due from affiliate........................................    2,561        359         (6)
  Increase in other long term obligations-related party.....       17         15         15
                                                              -------     ------     ------
      Net cash used in financing activities.................   (6,684)    (7,278)    (5,756)
                                                              -------     ------     ------
  Net (decrease) increase in cash...........................     (123)       576        244
  Cash, beginning of year...................................    4,383      3,807      3,563
                                                              -------     ------     ------
  Cash, end of year.........................................  $ 4,260     $4,383     $3,807
                                                              =======     ======     ======
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       37
<PAGE>
                              ALTON GAMING COMPANY

                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    BASIS OF PRESENTATION--Alton Gaming Company ("Company"), an Illinois
Corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Argosy Gaming Company ("Argosy"), is
engaged in the business of providing casino-style gaming and related
entertainment to the public through the operation of the Alton Belle casino in
Alton, Illinois.

    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

    Certain 1998 and 1997 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 1999
presentation.

    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT--Property and equipment are recorded at cost.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the respective lease.
Depreciation is computed on the straight-line method over the following
estimated useful lives:

<TABLE>
<S>                                                           <C>
Shore improvements..........................................  5 to 30 years
Riverboat, dock and improvements............................  5 to 20 years
Furniture, fixtures and equipment...........................  5 to 10 years
</TABLE>

    IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS--When events or circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of long-lived assets to be held and used might not be
recoverable, the expected future undiscounted cash flows from the assets is
estimated and compared with the carrying amount of the assets. If the sum of the
estimated undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the
assets, an impairment loss is recorded. The impairment loss is measured by
comparing the fair value of the assets with their carrying amount. Long-lived
assets that are held for disposal are reported at the lower of the assets'
carrying amount or fair value less costs related to the assets' disposition.

    REVENUES AND PROMOTIONAL ALLOWANCES--The Company recognizes as casino
revenues the net win from gaming activities, which is the difference between
gaming wins and losses. Food, beverage and other revenue is recognized at the
time the related service is performed.

    The retail value of food, beverage and other items provided to customers
without charge has been included in revenues, and a corresponding amount has
been deducted as promotional allowances. The estimated direct cost of providing
promotional allowances has been included in costs and expenses as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        1999       1998       1997
                                                      --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                   <C>        <C>        <C>
Food, beverage and other............................   $2,774     $2,311     $2,358
</TABLE>

    ADVERTISING COSTS--The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred.
Advertising expense was $1,062, $1,499 and $2,807 for the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

    INCOME TAXES--Earnings or losses from the Company are included in the
consolidated income tax returns of Argosy. The Company computes federal and
state income taxes on a separate return basis. Taxes due are settled between the
Company and Argosy in accordance with the terms of a tax sharing arrangement.

                                       38
<PAGE>
                              ALTON GAMING COMPANY

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

2. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Property and equipment consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             DECEMBER 31,
                                                          -------------------
                                                            1999       1998
                                                          --------   --------
<S>                                                       <C>        <C>
Leasehold and shore improvements........................  $  2,309   $  1,936
Riverboat, dock and improvements........................    45,006     30,469
Furniture, fixtures and equipment.......................    20,932     15,089
                                                          --------   --------
                                                            68,247     47,494
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization..........   (21,995)   (20,686)
                                                          --------   --------
Net property and equipment..............................  $ 46,252   $ 26,808
                                                          ========   ========
</TABLE>

    During December 1999, the Company replaced certain dockside barges and
related facilities with a net book value of $7.3 million as part of a major
renovation. The Company is currently evaluating the future use of these replaced
assets which may include utilization by an Argosy affiliate or sale of the
assets. If these assets are sold, a loss could be recorded for a substantial
portion of the $7.3 million net book value.

3. INCOME TAXES

    Income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,
consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        1999       1998       1997
                                                      --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                   <C>        <C>        <C>
Current:
  Federal...........................................   $7,421     $4,570     $1,586
  State.............................................    1,052        648        224
                                                       ------     ------     ------
                                                        8,473      5,218      1,810
                                                       ------     ------     ------
Deferred:
  Federal...........................................     (443)      (411)       155
  State.............................................      (63)       (59)        37
                                                       ------     ------     ------
                                                         (506)      (470)       192
                                                       ------     ------     ------
    Income tax expense..............................   $7,967     $4,748     $2,002
                                                       ======     ======     ======
</TABLE>

    The provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998
and 1997, differs from that computed at the Federal Statutory tax rate as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         1999          1998          1997
                                                       --------      --------      --------
<S>                                                    <C>           <C>           <C>
Federal statutory rate...........................        35.0          34.0%         34.0%
State income taxes, net of federal benefit.......         4.8           4.8           4.8
Other............................................        (0.4)          0.9          (1.0)
                                                        -----         -----         -----
                                                         39.4%         39.7%         37.8%
                                                        =====         =====         =====
</TABLE>

                                       39
<PAGE>
                              ALTON GAMING COMPANY

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

3. INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    The tax effects of significant temporary differences representing deferred
tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 1999 and 1998, are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              1999       1998
                                                            --------   --------
<S>                                                         <C>        <C>
Depreciation..............................................  $(2,859)   $(3,247)
Start-up costs............................................       46         46
Other.....................................................      734        616
                                                            -------    -------
Net deferred tax liability................................  $(2,079)   $(2,585)
                                                            =======    =======
</TABLE>

4. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

    The Company paid $102, $52 and $14 for interest for the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, and $5,224, $5,390 and $1,597
for income taxes in 1999, 1998 and 1997 to Argosy.

    During 1997, the Company transferred equipment to affiliates with a carrying
value of $278. Amounts due from affiliates increased by this amount as a result
of the transfer.

    During 1997, Argosy transferred a barge to the Company with a carrying value
of $432. Amounts due from affiliates decreased by this amount as a result of the
transfer.

5. OTHER RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

    The Company has entered into a management agreement with Argosy based on a
cost allocation model which was approved by the Illinois Gaming Board.

    The Company is restricted from making certain dividends unless approved by
the Illinois Gaming Board.

    The Company participates in Argosy's property, general liability, worker's
compensation and other insurance programs. The Company's estimated share of
these costs, which is allocated directly to the Company by Argosy, was $1,070,
$1,104 and $2,023 for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

    In January 1996, the Company entered into a 5 year operating lease agreement
with Argosy for certain office space. The lease carries annual rentals of
approximately $126 throughout the lease term.

    During 1994, the Company transferred the original Alton Belle along with
other barge facilities having a total cost of approximately $11,300 and
accumulated depreciation of approximately $3,300 to an affiliate. This amount is
included in due from affiliates in the accompanying balance sheets. No interest
is charged on this advance. During 1999, an affiliate transferred a barge with a
net book value of approximately $4,000 to the Company. This amount reduced the
due from affiliates in the accompanying balance sheets.

6. EMPLOYEES BENEFIT PLAN

    The Company participates in the Argosy Gaming Company Employees Savings
Trust, a 401(k) defined contribution plan, which covers substantially all of its
full time employees. Participants may contribute a portion of their eligible
salaries (as defined) subject to maximum limits, as determined by provisions of
the

                                       40
<PAGE>
                              ALTON GAMING COMPANY

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

6. EMPLOYEES BENEFIT PLAN (CONTINUED)
Internal Revenue Code. The Company will match a portion of participants
contributions in an amount determined annually by the Company. Expenses
recognized by the Company under the Plan were $242, $223 and $530 for the years
ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

7. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    Future minimum lease payments for operating leases with initial terms in
excess of one year as of December 31, 1999, are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31,
- -------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>
2000.......................................................    $741
2001.......................................................     176
2002.......................................................      18
2003.......................................................       5
</TABLE>

    Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, was $767,
$466 and $532, respectively.

    A predecessor entity to the Company ("Predecessor"), as a result of a
certain shareholder loan transaction, could be subject to federal and certain
state income taxes (plus interest and penalties, if any) if it is determined
that it failed to satisfy all of the requirements of the S-Corporation
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code relating to the prohibition concerning a
second class of stock. An audit is currently being conducted by the Internal
Revenue Service ("IRS") of the Company's federal income tax returns for the 1992
and 1993 tax years, and the IRS has asserted the S-Corporation status as one of
the issues although the IRS has yet to make a formal claim of deficiency. If the
IRS successfully challenges the Predecessor's S-Corporation status, the Company
would be required to pay federal and certain state income taxes on the
Predecessor's taxable income from the commencement of its operations until
February 25, 1993 (plus interest and penalties, if any, thereon until the date
of payment). If the Predecessor was required to pay federal and certain state
income taxes on its taxable earnings through February 25, 1993, such payments
could amount to approximately $14,800, including interest through December 31,
1999, but excluding penalties, if any. While the Company believes the
Predecessor has legal authority for its position that it is not subject to
federal and certain state income taxes because it met the S-Corporation
requirements, no assurances can be given that the Predecessor's position will be
upheld. This contingent liability could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. No
provision has been made for this contingency in the accompanying financial
statements.

    In June 1996, Argosy issued $235 million of 13 1/4% First Mortgage Notes,
due 2004 ("Mortgage Notes"). The assets of the Company are pledged as
collateral, and the Company is a guarantor, under the terms of the Mortgage
Notes. As part of a refinancing, in June 1999, Argosy retired through a tender
offer $212.7 million of its Mortgage Notes and at December 31, 1999,
$22.2 million of the Mortgage Notes remain outstanding. On June 8, 1999, Argosy
issued $200 million Senior Secured Subordinated Notes due 2009 ("Subordinated
Notes") and entered into a five year, $200 million Senior Secured revolving bank
credit agreement ("Credit Facility"). The Company is a named borrower under the
Credit Facility and borrowings are secured by substantially all of the assets of
the Company. The Company is a guarantor, under the terms of the Subordinated
Notes. The Subordinated Notes rank junior to all of the senior indebtedness of
Argosy, including borrowings under the Credit Facility.

                                       41
<PAGE>
                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Board of Directors
The Missouri Gaming Company

    We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of The Missouri Gaming
Company as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related statements of
operations, stockholder's equity and cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1999. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of The Missouri Gaming Company
at December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of its operations and its cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

                                          Ernst & Young LLP

Kansas City, Missouri
January 28, 2000

                                       42
<PAGE>
                          THE MISSOURI GAMING COMPANY
                                 BALANCE SHEETS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
CURRENT ASSETS:
  Cash......................................................  $ 5,027    $ 3,905
  Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful
    accounts of $18 and $55, respectively...................      187         34
  Prepaid rent..............................................       --        960
  Other current assets......................................    1,108        365
  Deferred income taxes.....................................      162        312
                                                              -------    -------
    Total current assets....................................    6,484      5,576
                                                              -------    -------
NET PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT..................................   63,574     66,819

OTHER ASSETS:
  Deposits..................................................      205        221
  Other.....................................................      753        913
                                                              -------    -------
    Total other assets......................................      958      1,134
                                                              -------    -------
TOTAL ASSETS................................................  $71,016    $73,529
                                                              =======    =======

CURRENT LIABILITIES:
  Accounts payable..........................................  $ 1,528    $ 1,405
  Accrued payroll and related expenses......................    1,544      1,383
  Slot club liability.......................................    1,128        924
  Accrued insurance.........................................    1,082        752
  Installment contracts payable.............................      147        500
  Income taxes payable to affiliate.........................    3,282        269
  Other current liabilities.................................      641        586
                                                              -------    -------
    Total current liabilities...............................    9,352      5,819
                                                              -------    -------
DUE TO AFFILIATES,..........................................   37,996     49,056
DEFERRED INCOME TAXES.......................................    2,555      2,260
STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY:
  Common stock--$.01 par value, 1,000 shares authorized,
    issued and outstanding..................................       --         --
  Capital in excess of par..................................    5,000      5,000
  Retained earnings.........................................   16,113     11,394
                                                              -------    -------
    Total stockholder's equity..............................   21,113     16,394
                                                              -------    -------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY..................  $71,016    $73,529
                                                              =======    =======
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       43
<PAGE>
                          THE MISSOURI GAMING COMPANY
                            STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
REVENUES:
  Casino....................................................  $84,892    $71,955    $61,750
  Food, beverage and other..................................   10,995     11,163     10,050
                                                              -------    -------    -------
                                                               95,887     83,118     71,800
  Less promotional allowances...............................   (6,074)    (6,157)    (5,252)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
  Net revenues..............................................   89,813     76,961     66,548
                                                              -------    -------    -------

COSTS AND EXPENSES:
  Casino....................................................   42,352     38,144     33,568
  Food, beverage and other..................................    8,122      8,602      8,583
  Selling, general and administrative.......................   16,224     14,201     11,871
  Other operating expenses..................................    4,863      4,722      4,098
  Depreciation and amortization.............................    5,688      5,924      5,947
                                                              -------    -------    -------
                                                               77,249     71,593     64,067
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Income from operations......................................   12,564      5,368      2,481
                                                              -------    -------    -------

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE):
  Interest income...........................................       31         56        231
  Interest expense..........................................   (4,719)    (4,381)    (5,162)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
                                                               (4,688)    (4,325)    (4,931)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Income (loss) before income taxes...........................    7,876      1,043     (2,450)
Income tax (expense) benefit................................   (3,157)      (443)       929
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Net income (loss)...........................................  $ 4,719    $   600    $(1,521)
                                                              =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       44
<PAGE>
                          THE MISSOURI GAMING COMPANY
                       STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY
                       (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     CAPITAL IN                  TOTAL
                                                           COMMON    EXCESS OF    RETAINED   STOCKHOLDER'S
                                                SHARES     STOCK        PAR       EARNINGS      EQUITY
                                               --------   --------   ----------   --------   -------------
<S>                                            <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>
Balance, December 31, 1996...................   1,000         --       $5,000     $12,315       $17,315
  Net loss...................................      --         --           --      (1,521)       (1,521)
                                                -----     --------     ------     -------       -------
Balance, December 31, 1997...................   1,000         --        5,000      10,794        15,794
  Net income.................................      --         --           --         600           600
                                                -----     --------     ------     -------       -------
Balance, December 31, 1998...................   1,000         --        5,000      11,394        16,394
  Net income.................................      --         --           --       4,719         4,719
                                                -----     --------     ------     -------       -------
Balance, December 31, 1999...................   1,000         --       $5,000     $16,113       $21,113
                                                =====     ========     ======     =======       =======
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       45
<PAGE>
                          THE MISSOURI GAMING COMPANY
                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Net income (loss)...........................................  $ 4,719     $  600    $(1,521)
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash
  provided by
  (used in) operating activities:
  Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets.............    5,528      5,777      5,740
  Amortization of other assets..............................      160        147        207
  Deferred income taxes.....................................      445        467        455
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
    Accounts receivable.....................................     (153)       235        (49)
    Other current assets....................................      217       (148)        85
    Accounts payable........................................      123         96     (2,153)
    Accrued liabilities.....................................    3,763        316     (4,868)
    Other assets............................................       16        998        867
                                                              -------     ------    -------
    Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities.....   14,818      8,488     (1,237)
                                                              -------     ------    -------

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  Purchases of property and equipment.......................   (2,283)    (1,339)      (998)
                                                              -------     ------    -------
    Net cash used in investing activities...................   (2,283)    (1,339)      (998)
                                                              -------     ------    -------

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
  Payments on installment contracts.........................     (353)      (207)       (94)
  Payments to affiliate.....................................  (11,060)    (6,666)      (185)
                                                              -------     ------    -------
    Net cash used in financing activities...................  (11,413)    (6,873)      (279)
                                                              -------     ------    -------
Net increase (decrease) in cash.............................    1,122        276     (2,514)
Cash, beginning of year.....................................    3,905      3,629      6,143
                                                              -------     ------    -------
Cash, end of year...........................................  $ 5,027     $3,905    $ 3,629
                                                              =======     ======    =======
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       46
<PAGE>
                          THE MISSOURI GAMING COMPANY

                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    BASIS OF PRESENTATION--The Missouri Gaming Company ("Company") (a Missouri
company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Argosy Gaming Company, ("Argosy")) owns
and operates a riverboat casino and related facilities in Riverside, Missouri.

    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

    Certain amounts in 1998 and 1997 have been reclassified to conform to the
1999 presentation.

    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS--The Company considers cash and all highly liquid
investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.

    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT--Property and equipment is recorded at cost.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the respective lease.
Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the following
estimated useful lives:

<TABLE>
<S>                                                           <C>
Buildings and shore improvements............................  5 to 30 years
Riverboat, dock and improvements............................  5 to 20 years
Furniture, fixtures and equipment...........................  5 to 10 years
</TABLE>

    IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS--When events or circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of long-lived assets to be held and used might not be
recoverable, the expected future undiscounted cash flows from the assets is
estimated and compared with the carrying amount of the assets. If the sum of the
estimated undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the
assets, an impairment loss is recorded. The impairment loss is measured by
comparing the fair value of the assets with their carrying amount. Long-lived
assets that are held for disposal are reported at the lower of the assets'
carrying amount or fair value less costs related to the assets' disposition.

    CASINO REVENUES AND PROMOTIONAL ALLOWANCES--The Company recognizes as casino
revenues the net win from gaming activities, which is the difference between
gaming wins and losses. Food, beverage and other revenue is recognized at the
time the related service is performed.

    The retail value of admissions, food and beverage and other items which were
provided to customers without charge, has been included in revenues, and a
corresponding amount has been deducted as promotional allowances. The estimated
direct cost of providing promotional allowances has been included in operating
costs and expenses as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        1999       1998       1997
                                                      --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                   <C>        <C>        <C>
Food, beverage and other............................   $5,002     $5,231     $4,918
</TABLE>

    ADVERTISING COSTS--The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred.
Advertising expense for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 was
$1,234, $1,148 and $2,548, respectively.

    INCOME TAXES--Earnings or losses from the Company are included in the
consolidated income tax returns of Argosy. The Company computes federal and
state income taxes on a separate return basis. Taxes due are settled between the
Company and Argosy in accordance with the terms of a tax sharing arrangement.

                                       47
<PAGE>
                          THE MISSOURI GAMING COMPANY

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

2. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Property and equipment consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               DECEMBER 31,
                                                            -------------------
                                                              1999       1998
                                                            --------   --------
<S>                                                         <C>        <C>
Land and improvements.....................................  $14,657    $14,657
Buildings and improvements................................   29,527     29,152
Riverboat, dock and improvements..........................   23,372     23,372
Furniture, fixtures and equipment.........................   21,648     19,740
                                                            -------    -------
                                                             89,204     86,921
Accumulated depreciation and amortization.................  (25,630)   (20,102)
                                                            -------    -------
Net property and equipment................................  $63,574    $66,819
                                                            =======    =======
</TABLE>

3. RIVERSIDE AGREEMENT

    The Company entered into a Lease and Development Agreement ("Agreement")
with the City of Riverside, Missouri. The Agreement, as amended, required the
Company to pay $1,600 for the construction of a city park and for the
development of a golf course. These payments were capitalized, and are included
as a component of other assets in the accompanying balance sheet, and are being
amortized over ten years using the straight-line method.

    Under the terms of the Agreement, the Company leases a portion of its site
from the City of Riverside. The $5,000 minimum rent due for the initial
five-year term of the lease was paid in advance as required by the Agreement. In
addition to minimum rent, during the initial five-year lease term, percentage
rent was payable at 3% of revenues, as defined, over $100 million annually. The
Company has the option to extend the Agreement for three successive five-year
terms. The initial term expired in November, 1999 and the Company extended the
agreement for five years. During the extension periods, there is no minimum rent
and percentage rent is payable as follows: (i) 3% on the first $50 million of
revenues; (ii) 4% on revenues between $50 million and $100 million; and
(iii) 5% on revenues in excess of $100 million.

    The Agreement requires the Company to maintain a net worth of $5,000 at all
times, unless approved by the City of Riverside.

4. INCOME TAXES

    Income tax (expense) benefit for years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and
1997, consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       1999       1998       1997
                                                     --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                  <C>        <C>        <C>
Current:
  Federal..........................................  $(2,419)    $   21     $1,240
  State............................................     (293)         3        144
                                                     -------     ------     ------
                                                      (2,712)        24      1,384
                                                     -------     ------     ------
Deferred:
  Federal..........................................     (397)      (417)      (417)
  State............................................      (48)       (50)       (38)
                                                     -------     ------     ------
                                                        (445)      (467)      (455)
                                                     -------     ------     ------
    Income tax (expense) benefit...................  $(3,157)    $ (443)    $  929
                                                     =======     ======     ======
</TABLE>

                                       48
<PAGE>
                          THE MISSOURI GAMING COMPANY

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

4. INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    The provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998
and 1997 differs from that computed at the Federal Statutory corporate tax rate
as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           1999       1998       1997
                                                         --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>        <C>
Federal statutory rate.................................    34.0%      34.0%      (34.0)%
State income taxes, net of federal benefit.............     4.1        4.1        (4.1)
Other..................................................     2.0        4.3         0.2
                                                           ----       ----      ------
                                                           40.1%      42.4%      (37.9)%
                                                           ====       ====      ======
</TABLE>

    The tax effects of significant temporary differences representing deferred
tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 1999 and 1998 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              1999       1998
                                                            --------   --------
<S>                                                         <C>        <C>
Start-up costs............................................  $    --    $   105
Depreciation..............................................   (2,555)    (2,365)
Other, net................................................      162        312
                                                            -------    -------
Net deferred tax liability................................  $(2,393)   $(1,948)
                                                            =======    =======
</TABLE>

5. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

    The Company acquired equipment of $707 in 1998, which was financed through
installment contracts.

    The Company paid $4,719, $6,752 and $5,393 for interest and $400, $114 and
$3,518 for income taxes in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

6. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

    The Company participates in Argosy's property, general liability, worker's
compensation and other insurance programs. The Company's estimated share of
these costs, which is allocated directly to the Company by Argosy, was $913,
$994 and $2,603 for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

    The Company has outstanding long-term debt with Argosy in the amounts of
$37,996 and $49,056 at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. These amounts
represent funds received in connection with the construction of the permanent
facility. The Company accrues interest on the long-term debt at a rate of 12%
annually. There are no stated repayment terms on the long-term debt and payments
are made from available cash flow. Argosy has indicated that it will not demand
payment on the long-term debt prior to January 1, 2001.

7. EMPLOYEES BENEFIT PLAN

    The Company participates in the Argosy Gaming Company Employees Savings
Trust, a 401(k) defined contribution plan, which covers substantially all of its
full time employees. Participants may contribute a portion of their eligible
salaries (as defined) subject to maximum limits, as determined by provisions of
the Internal Revenue Code. The Company will match a portion of participants
contributions in an amount

                                       49
<PAGE>
                          THE MISSOURI GAMING COMPANY

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

7. EMPLOYEES BENEFIT PLAN (CONTINUED)
determined annually by the Company. Expense recognized by the Company under the
Plan was $73, $203 and $422 for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively.

8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    Future minimum lease payments for operating leases with initial terms in
excess of one year as of December 31, 1999, are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31,
- -------------------------
<S>                                                     <C>
2000..................................................         $320
2001..................................................           20
2002..................................................           20
2003..................................................           20
</TABLE>

    Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 was
$1,727, $1,483 and $1,539, respectively.

    The Company is restricted from making certain distributions to Argosy and
other affiliates unless approved by state gaming authorities.

    In June 1996, Argosy issued $235 million of 13 1/4% First Mortgage Notes,
due 2004 ("Mortgage Notes"). The assets of the Company are pledged as
collateral, and the Company is a guarantor, under the terms of the Mortgage
Notes. As part of a refinancing, in June 1999, Argosy retired through a tender
offer $212.7 million of its Mortgage Notes and at December 31, 1999,
$22.2 million of the Mortgage Notes remain outstanding. On June 8, 1999, Argosy
issued $200 million of Senior Subordinated Notes due 2009 ("Subordinated Notes")
and entered into a five year, $200 million Senior Secured revolving bank credit
agreement ("Credit Facility"). The Company is a named borrower under the Credit
Facility and borrowings are secured by substantially all the assets of the
Company. The Company is a guarantor, under the terms of the Subordinated Notes.
The Subordinated Notes rank junior to all of the senior indebtedness of Argosy,
including borrowings under the Credit Facility.

                                       50
<PAGE>
                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Board of Directors
Argosy of Louisiana, Inc.

    We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Argosy of
Louisiana, Inc. as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholder's deficit and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1999. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Argosy of
Louisiana, Inc. at December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the consolidated results of
its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States.

                                          Ernst & Young LLP

New Orleans, Louisiana
January 28, 2000

                                       51
<PAGE>
                           ARGOSY OF LOUISIANA, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
CURRENT ASSETS:
  Cash and cash equivalents.................................  $ 4,192    $ 3,025
  Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful
    accounts of $290 and $708, respectively.................    1,049        301
  Income taxes receivable from related party................      717        717
  Other current assets......................................    1,039        577
                                                              -------    -------
    Total current assets....................................    6,997      4,620
                                                              -------    -------
NET PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT..................................   39,548     39,670
OTHER ASSETS:
  Deferred lease acquisition cost, net......................    1,592      1,700
  Other.....................................................        4         13
                                                              -------    -------
    Total other assets......................................    1,596      1,713
                                                              -------    -------
TOTAL ASSETS................................................  $48,141    $46,003
                                                              =======    =======
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
  Accounts payable..........................................  $   771    $   595
  Accrued payroll and related expenses......................    1,151        966
  Other accrued liabilities.................................    1,932      2,521
  Due to affiliates.........................................    7,397      3,149
  Accrued interest-related party............................    3,706      2,304
  Accrued insurance.........................................    1,689      1,166
  Notes payable and current maturities of long-term
    debt-related party......................................   16,687     13,349
                                                              -------    -------
Total current liabilities...................................   33,333     24,050
                                                              -------    -------
LONG-TERM DEBT-RELATED PARTY................................   31,382     34,709
DEFERRED INCOME TAXES.......................................      432        432
MINORITY INTEREST IN CONSOLIDATED PARTNERSHIP...............    1,132      1,484
STOCKHOLDER'S DEFICIT:
  Common stock--$1 par value, 1,000 shares authorized,
    issued and outstanding..................................        1          1
  Accumulated deficit.......................................  (18,139)   (14,673)
                                                              -------    -------
                                                              (18,138)   (14,672)
                                                              -------    -------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDER'S DEFICIT.................  $48,141    $46,003
                                                              =======    =======
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       52
<PAGE>
                           ARGOSY OF LOUISIANA, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
REVENUES:
  Casino....................................................  $53,262    $46,828    $47,628
  Food, beverage and other..................................    5,205      6,108      7,046
                                                              -------    -------    -------
                                                               58,467     52,936     54,674
Less promotional allowances.................................   (3,357)    (3,882)    (4,238)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Net revenues................................................   55,110     49,054     50,436
                                                              -------    -------    -------
COSTS AND EXPENSES:
  Casino....................................................   30,189     28,869     27,887
  Food, beverage and other..................................    4,403      5,612      6,799
  Other operating expenses..................................    5,140      4,798      5,147
  Selling, general and administrative.......................   12,617     11,036     12,346
  Depreciation and amortization.............................    5,219      5,272      5,468
                                                              -------    -------    -------
                                                               57,568     55,587     57,647
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Loss from operations........................................   (2,458)    (6,533)    (7,211)
INTEREST (EXPENSE) INCOME:
  Interest to related party.................................   (1,402)    (1,395)    (1,402)
  Interest, net.............................................       42         60         89
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Loss before income taxes and minority interest..............   (3,818)    (7,868)    (8,524)
Income tax benefit..........................................       --         --        420
Minority interest...........................................      352        756        838
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Net loss....................................................  $(3,466)   $(7,112)   $(7,266)
                                                              =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       53
<PAGE>
                           ARGOSY OF LOUISIANA, INC.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDER'S DEFICIT

                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     COMMON    ACCUMULATED
                                                          SHARES     STOCK       DEFICIT      TOTAL
                                                         --------   --------   -----------   --------
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>        <C>           <C>
Balance, December 31, 1996.............................   1,000        $1        $   (295)   $   (294)
  Net loss.............................................                            (7,266)     (7,266)
                                                          -----        --        --------    --------
Balance, December 31, 1997.............................   1,000         1          (7,561)     (7,560)
  Net loss.............................................                            (7,112)     (7,112)
                                                          -----        --        --------    --------
Balance, December 31, 1998.............................   1,000         1         (14,673)    (14,672)
  Net loss.............................................                            (3,466)     (3,466)
                                                          -----        --        --------    --------
Balance, December 31, 1999.............................   1,000        $1        $(18,139)   $(18,138)
                                                          =====        ==        ========    ========
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       54
<PAGE>
                           ARGOSY OF LOUISIANA, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Net loss....................................................  $(3,466)   $(7,112)   $(7,266)
Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash
  provided by (used in) operating activities:
  Depreciation..............................................    5,111      5,164      5,083
  Amortization..............................................      108        108        385
  Loss on writedown of assets...............................      129        317         --
  Minority interest.........................................     (352)      (756)      (838)
  Deferred income taxes.....................................       --         --       (420)
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
    Accounts receivable.....................................     (748)       183        127
    Income tax receivable from related party................       --         25        137
    Other current assets....................................     (462)      (148)       430
    Accounts payable........................................      176       (176)      (356)
    Accrued payroll and related expenses....................      185         47        170
    Accrued interest to related party.......................    1,402      1,402        902
    Other accrued liabilities...............................       64        342        467
                                                              -------    -------    -------
      Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities...    2,147       (604)    (1,179)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Purchases of property and equipment.........................   (5,117)      (919)      (444)
Proceeds from sale of equipment to affiliates...............       --         --        486
                                                              -------    -------    -------
      Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities...   (5,117)      (919)        42
                                                              -------    -------    -------
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Increase in amounts due to affiliates.......................    4,248      1,354      1,795
Proceeds from (payments on) notes payable and long-term
  debt......................................................       11        (52)      (280)
Payments on installment contracts...........................     (131)      (183)        --
Decrease in other assets....................................        9         --         --
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Net cash provided by financing activities...................    4,137      1,119      1,515
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents........    1,167       (404)       378
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year................    3,025      3,429      3,051
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year......................  $ 4,192    $ 3,025    $ 3,429
                                                              =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       55
<PAGE>
                           ARGOSY OF LOUISIANA, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    BASIS OF PRESENTATION--Argosy of Louisiana, Inc. (collectively with its
controlled partnership Catfish Queen Partnership in Commendam ("Partnership")
"the Company") was formed on July 29, 1993. The Company entered a partnership
agreement with Jazz Enterprises, Inc. ("Jazz") to form the Partnership to
provide riverboat gaming and related entertainment in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
The Company is the 90% general partner of the Partnership, along with the 10%
partner in commendam Jazz. Both the Company and Jazz are wholly owned
subsidiaries of Argosy Gaming Company ("Argosy").

    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. These
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and the
Partnership. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated.

    Certain 1998 and 1997 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 1999
presentation.

    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS--The Company considers cash and all highly liquid
investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.

    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT--Property and equipment is recorded at cost.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the respective lease.
Depreciation is computed on the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives or lease period as follows:

<TABLE>
<S>                                                           <C>
Riverboat, dock and improvements............................  15 to 20 years
Furniture, fixtures and equipment...........................  5 to 7 years
</TABLE>

    DEFERRED LEASE ACQUISITION COSTS--Deferred lease acquisition costs resulted
from the contribution of certain leases by Jazz to the Partnership. This cost is
amortized on the straight-line method over 20 years. Accumulated amortization
was $567 and $458 at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

    IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS--When events or circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of long-lived assets to be held and used might not be
recoverable, the expected future undiscounted cash flows from the assets is
estimated and compared with the carrying amount of the assets. If the sum of the
estimated undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the
assets, an impairment loss is recorded. The impairment loss is measured by
comparing the fair value of the assets with their carrying amount. Long-lived
assets that are held for disposal are reported at the lower of the assets'
carrying amount or fair value less costs related to the assets' disposition.

    CASINO REVENUES AND PROMOTIONAL ALLOWANCES--The Company recognizes as casino
revenues the net win from gaming activities, which is the difference between
gaming wins and losses. Food, beverage and other revenue is recognized at the
time the related service is performed.

    The retail value of food, beverage and other items which were provided to
customers without charge has been included in revenues, and a corresponding
amount has been deducted as promotional allowances.

                                       56
<PAGE>
                           ARGOSY OF LOUISIANA, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
The estimated direct cost of providing promotional allowances has been included
in costs and expenses as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        1999       1998       1997
                                                      --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                   <C>        <C>        <C>
Food, beverage and other............................   $3,206     $4,457     $4,974
</TABLE>

    ADVERTISING COSTS--The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred.
Advertising expense was $1,893, $1,552 and $1,656 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

    INCOME TAXES--Earnings or losses from the Company are included in the
consolidated tax returns of Argosy. The Company computes federal and state taxes
on a separate return basis. Taxes due are settled between the Company and Argosy
in accordance with the terms of a tax sharing arrangement.

2. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Property and equipment consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Leasehold and shore improvements............................  $  6,970   $  6,970
Riverboat, docks and improvements...........................    36,080     36,077
Furniture, fixtures and equipment...........................    21,287     18,065
                                                              --------   --------
                                                                64,337     61,112
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization..............   (24,789)   (21,442)
                                                              --------   --------
Net property and equipment..................................  $ 39,548   $ 39,670
                                                              ========   ========
</TABLE>

3. LONG-TERM DEBT-RELATED PARTY

    Notes payable and long-term debt consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
8% unsecured note payable to Argosy in quarterly
  installments of $931 including interest, through July
  2001......................................................  $17,527    $17,527
Noninterest-bearing unsecured note payable to Argosy due
  2000......................................................    1,844      1,844
Noninterest-bearing advances from Argosy, no stated
  maturity..................................................   28,698     28,687
                                                              -------    -------
                                                               48,069     48,058
Less current maturities.....................................  (16,687)   (13,349)
                                                              -------    -------
                                                              $31,382    $34,709
                                                              =======    =======
</TABLE>

    The carrying value of long-term debt approximates fair value at
December 31, 1999. During 1999 and 1998, the Company did not make scheduled debt
payments to Argosy. Argosy has agreed to provide operating support to the
Company and to the extent necessary will not demand payment on the current

                                       57
<PAGE>
                           ARGOSY OF LOUISIANA, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

3. LONG-TERM DEBT-RELATED PARTY (CONTINUED)
portion of the long-term debt during 2000 and has agreed to not demand payment
on the noninterest bearing advances prior to January 1, 2001.

    Maturities of long term debt, excluding the noninterest bearing advances,
but including scheduled payments under the notes payable to Argosy which were
due prior to December 31, 1999 and which have not yet been paid are as follows:

<TABLE>
<S>                                               <C>
2000............................................  $16,687
2001............................................    2,684
</TABLE>

4. INCOME TAXES

    Income tax benefit consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                       --------------------------------------
                                                         1999           1998           1997
                                                       ---------      ---------      --------
<S>                                                    <C>            <C>            <C>
Deferred:
  Federal............................................  $     --       $     --         $384
  State..............................................        --             --           36
                                                       ---------      ---------        ----
Total deferred.......................................        --             --          420
                                                       ---------      ---------        ----
Income tax benefit...................................  $     --       $     --         $420
                                                       =========      =========        ====
</TABLE>

    The tax effects of significant temporary differences representing deferred
tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 1999 and 1998 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              1999       1998
                                                            --------   --------
<S>                                                         <C>        <C>
Tax over book depreciation................................  $(4,224)   $(4,374)
Net operating loss carryforward...........................    9,925      8,654
Pre-opening...............................................       --        116
Other, net................................................      298        407
Minority interest.........................................     (432)      (432)
                                                            -------    -------
                                                              5,567      4,371
Valuation allowance.......................................   (5,999)    (4,803)
                                                            -------    -------
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities).....................  $  (432)   $  (432)
                                                            =======    =======
</TABLE>

                                       58
<PAGE>
                           ARGOSY OF LOUISIANA, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

4. INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    The provision for income taxes differs from that computed at the federal
statutory corporate tax rate as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                  ------------------------------------
                                                                    1999          1998          1997
                                                                  --------      --------      --------
<S>                                                               <C>           <C>           <C>
Tax at U. S. statutory rates................................       (34.0)%       (34.0)%       (35.0)%
State income tax, net of federal tax benefit................        (5.3)         (5.3)         (5.3)
Valuation allowance.........................................        35.6          37.7          28.6
Minority interest...........................................          --            --           4.0
Other, net..................................................         3.7           1.6           2.8
                                                                   -----         -----         -----
                                                                    (0.0)%        (0.0)%        (4.9)%
                                                                   =====         =====         =====
</TABLE>

    The Company has not recorded any income tax benefit on its operating losses
in 1999 or 1998 and has recorded a valuation allowance against its net deferred
tax assets in 1999 and 1998 due to the uncertainty of realization. The Company
has tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $25,300 which expire
from 2010 to 2019.

5. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

    The Company leases, a docking site, office and warehouse space from Jazz.
Rent under terms of the lease ranges from 6% to 10% of adjusted gross receipts.

    Rent expense was approximately $4,303, $3,354 and $3,398 in 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively. Approximately $3,291, $2,833 and $2,920 in 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively resulted from the above mentioned lease with Jazz.

    The Company participates in Argosy's property, general liability, workers
compensation and other insurance programs. The Company's share of these costs
was approximately $1,316, $1,474 and $2,511 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

6. EMPLOYEES BENEFIT PLAN

    The Company participates in the Argosy Gaming Company Employees Savings
Trust, a 401(k) defined contribution plan which covers substantially all of its
full-time employees. Participants may contribute a portion of their eligible
salaries (as defined) subject to maximum limits, as determined by provisions of
the Internal Revenue Code. The Company will match a portion of participants'
contributions in an amount determined annually by the Company. Expense
recognized by the Company under the Plan was approximately $42, $169 and $392 in
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

7. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

    The Company acquired equipment in the amount of $336 in 1998 which was
financed through installment contracts.

    The Company paid interest of $18, $3 and $500 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

                                       59
<PAGE>
                           ARGOSY OF LOUISIANA, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    Future minimum lease payments for operating leases with initial terms in
excess of one year as of December 31, 1999 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<S>                                                           <C>
YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31,
- ------------------------------------------------------------
2000........................................................    $444
2001........................................................     387
2002........................................................      33
2003........................................................       3
</TABLE>

    In June 1996, Argosy issued $235 million of 13 1/4% First Mortgage Notes,
due 2004 ("Mortgage Notes"). The assets of the Company are pledged as
collateral, and the Company is a guarantor, under the terms of the Mortgage
Notes. As part of a refinancing, in June 1999, Argosy retired through a tender
offer $212.7 million of its Mortgage Notes and at December 31, 1999,
$22.2 million of the Mortgage Notes remain outstanding. On June 8, 1999, Argosy
issued $200 million Senior Secured Subordinated Notes due 2009 ("Subordinated
Notes") and entered into a five year, $200 million Senior Secured revolving bank
credit agreement ("Credit Facility"). The Company is a named borrower under the
Credit Facility and borrowings are secured by substantially all of the assets of
the Company. The Company is a guarantor, under the terms of the Subordinated
Notes. The Subordinated Notes rank junior to all of the senior indebtedness of
Argosy, including borrowings under the Credit Facility.

                                       60
<PAGE>
                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Partners
Catfish Queen Partnership in Commendam

    We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Catfish Queen Partnership
in Commendam as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related statements of
operations, partners' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1999. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Partnership's management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Catfish Queen Partnership in
Commendam at December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of its operations and
its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
1999, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States.

                                          Ernst & Young LLP

New Orleans, Louisiana
January 28, 2000

                                       61
<PAGE>
                     CATFISH QUEEN PARTNERSHIP IN COMMENDAM
                                 BALANCE SHEETS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
CURRENT ASSETS:
  Cash and cash equivalents.................................  $ 4,182    $ 3,025
  Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful
    accounts of $290 and $708, respectively.................    1,049        301
  Inventories...............................................      175        209
  Other current assets......................................      750        254
                                                              -------    -------
    Total current assets....................................    6,156      3,789
                                                              -------    -------
NET PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT..................................   39,548     39,670
OTHER ASSETS:
  Deferred lease acquisition costs, net.....................    1,592      1,700
  Other.....................................................        4         13
                                                              -------    -------
    Total other assets......................................    1,596      1,713
                                                              -------    -------
TOTAL ASSETS................................................  $47,300    $45,172
                                                              =======    =======
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
  Accounts payable..........................................  $   771    $   595
  Accrued payroll and related expenses......................    1,151        966
  Accrued insurance.........................................    1,689      1,166
  Other accrued liabilities.................................    1,575      2,459
  Accrued interest-related party............................    3,706      2,304
  Due to affiliates.........................................    7,397      3,149
  Notes payable and current maturities of long-term
    debt-related party......................................   16,687     13,349
                                                              -------    -------
    Total current liabilities...............................   32,976     23,988
                                                              -------    -------
LONG-TERM DEBT--RELATED PARTY...............................    2,684      6,022
PARTNERS' EQUITY............................................   11,640     15,162
                                                              -------    -------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND PARTNERS' EQUITY......................  $47,300    $45,172
                                                              =======    =======
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       62
<PAGE>
                     CATFISH QUEEN PARTNERSHIP IN COMMENDAM
                            STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
REVENUES:
  Casino....................................................  $53,262    $46,828    $47,628
  Food, beverage and other..................................    5,205      6,108      7,046
                                                              -------    -------    -------
                                                               58,467     52,936     54,674
  Less promotional allowances...............................   (3,357)    (3,882)    (4,238)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Net revenues................................................   55,110     49,054     50,436
                                                              -------    -------    -------
COSTS AND EXPENSES:
  Casino....................................................   30,189     28,869     27,887
  Food, beverage and other..................................    4,403      5,612      6,799
  Other operating expenses..................................    5,140      4,798      5,147
  Selling, general and administrative.......................   12,321     10,716     12,201
  Depreciation and amortization.............................    5,219      5,272      5,468
                                                              -------    -------    -------
                                                               57,272     55,267     57,502
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Loss from operations........................................   (2,162)    (6,213)    (7,066)
INTEREST (EXPENSE) INCOME:
Related parties.............................................   (1,402)    (1,405)    (1,402)
Other, net..................................................       42         59         89
                                                              -------    -------    -------
                                                               (1,360)    (1,346)    (1,313)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
NET LOSS....................................................  $(3,522)   $(7,559)   $(8,379)
                                                              =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       63
<PAGE>
                     CATFISH QUEEN PARTNERSHIP IN COMMENDAM
                         STATEMENTS OF PARTNERS' EQUITY
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              ARGOSY OF        JAZZ         TOTAL
                                                              LOUISIANA,   ENTERPRISES,   PARTNERS'
                                                                 INC.          INC.        EQUITY
                                                              ----------   ------------   ---------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>            <C>
Partners' equity at December 31, 1996.......................   $27,990        $3,110       $31,100
  Net loss..................................................    (7,541)         (838)       (8,379)
                                                               -------        ------       -------
Partners' equity at December 31, 1997.......................    20,449         2,272        22,721
  Net loss..................................................    (6,803)         (756)       (7,559)
                                                               -------        ------       -------
Partners' equity at December 31, 1998.......................    13,646         1,516        15,162
  Net loss..................................................    (3,170)         (352)       (3,522)
                                                               -------        ------       -------
Partners' equity at December 31, 1999.......................   $10,476        $1,164       $11,640
                                                               =======        ======       =======
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       64
<PAGE>
                     CATFISH QUEEN PARTNERSHIP IN COMMENDAM
                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Net loss....................................................  $(3,522)   $(7,559)   $(8,379)
Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided by
  (used in) operating activities:
  Depreciation..............................................    5,111      5,164      5,083
  Amortization..............................................      108        108        385
  Loss on writedown of assets...............................      129         --         --
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
    Accounts receivable.....................................     (748)       183        127
    Other current assets....................................     (462)      (145)       205
    Accounts payable........................................      176       (176)      (356)
    Accrued payroll and related expenses....................      185         47        170
    Accrued interest to related parties.....................    1,402      1,402        902
    Other accrued liabilities...............................     (231)       320        404
                                                              -------    -------    -------
  Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities.......    2,148       (656)    (1,459)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Purchases of property and equipment.........................   (5,117)      (919)      (444)
Proceeds from sale of equipment to affiliates...............       --         --        486
                                                              -------    -------    -------
  Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities.......   (5,117)      (919)        42
                                                              -------    -------    -------
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Increase in advances from affiliates........................    4,248      1,354      1,795
Payments on installment contracts...........................     (131)      (183)        --
Decrease in other assets....................................        9         --         --
                                                              -------    -------    -------
  Net cash provided by financing activities.................    4,126      1,171      1,795
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents........    1,157       (404)       378
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year................    3,025      3,429      3,051
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year......................  $ 4,182    $ 3,025    $ 3,429
                                                              =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       65
<PAGE>
                     CATFISH QUEEN PARTNERSHIP IN COMMENDAM

                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    BASIS OF PRESENTATION--Catfish Queen Partnership in Commendam
("Partnership") provides riverboat gaming and related entertainment in Baton
Rouge, Louisiana. The Partnership is comprised of a 90% general partner, Argosy
of Louisiana, Inc. ("General Partner") and a 10% partner in commendam, Jazz
Enterprises, Inc. ("Jazz"), both wholly owned subsidiaries of Argosy Gaming
Company ("Argosy").

    Net loss is allocated to the partners based on their respective ownership
interests.

    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

    Certain 1998 and 1997 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 1999
presentation.

    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS--The Partnership considers cash and all highly
liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents. The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair
value at December 31, 1999 and 1998.

    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT--Property and equipment is recorded at cost.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the respective lease.
Depreciation and amortization is computed on the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives or lease period as follows:

<TABLE>
<S>                                                           <C>
Riverboat, dock and improvements............................  15 to 20 years
Furniture, fixtures and equipment...........................  5 to  7 years
</TABLE>

    DEFERRED LEASE ACQUISITION COSTS--Deferred lease acquisition costs resulted
from the contribution of certain leases by Jazz to the Partnership. These costs
are amortized on the straight-line method over 20 years. Accumulated
amortization was $567 and $458 at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

    IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS--When events or circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of long-lived assets to be held and used might not be
recoverable, the expected future undiscounted cash flows from the assets is
estimated and compared with the carrying amount of the assets. If the sum of the
estimated undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the
assets, an impairment loss is recorded. The impairment loss is measured by
comparing the fair value of the assets with their carrying amount. Long-lived
assets that are held for disposal are reported at the lower of the assets'
carrying amount or fair value less costs related to the assets' disposition.

    CASINO REVENUES AND PROMOTIONAL ALLOWANCES--The Partnership recognizes as
casino revenues the net win from gaming activities, which is the difference
between gaming wins and losses. Food, beverage and other revenue is recognized
at the time the related service is performed.

                                       66
<PAGE>
                     CATFISH QUEEN PARTNERSHIP IN COMMENDAM

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    The retail value of food, beverage and other items which were provided to
customers without charge has been included in revenues, and a corresponding
amount has been deducted as promotional allowances. The estimated direct cost of
providing promotional allowances has been included in costs and expenses as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        1999       1998       1997
                                                      --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                   <C>        <C>        <C>
Food, beverage and other............................   $3,206     $4,457     $4,974
</TABLE>

    ADVERTISING COSTS--The Partnership expenses advertising costs as incurred.
Advertising expense was $1,893, $1,552 and $1,656 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

    INCOME TAXES--No provision (credit) for federal or state income taxes is
recorded in the financial statements, as income taxes are the responsibility of
the individual partners.

2. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Property and equipment consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Leasehold and shore improvements............................  $  6,970   $  6,970
Riverboat, docks and improvements...........................    36,080     36,077
Furniture, fixtures and equipment...........................    21,287     18,065
                                                              --------   --------
                                                                64,337     61,112
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization..............   (24,789)   (21,442)
                                                              --------   --------
Net property and equipment..................................  $ 39,548   $ 39,670
                                                              ========   ========
</TABLE>

3. LONG-TERM DEBT

    Notes payable and long-term debt consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
8% unsecured note payable to Argosy in quarterly
  installments of including interest, through July 2001.....  $ 17,527   $ 17,527
Noninterest-bearing unsecured note payable to Argosy due
  2000......................................................     1,844      1,844
                                                              --------   --------
                                                                19,371     19,371
Less current maturities.....................................   (16,687)   (13,349)
                                                              --------   --------
                                                              $  2,684   $  6,022
                                                              ========   ========
</TABLE>

    The carrying value of long-term debt approximates fair value at
December 31, 1999. During 1999 and 1998, the Partnership did not make scheduled
debt payments to Argosy. Argosy has agreed to provide operating support to the
Partnership and, to the extent necessary, will not demand payment on the current
portion of the long-term debt during 2000.

                                       67
<PAGE>
                     CATFISH QUEEN PARTNERSHIP IN COMMENDAM

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

3. LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
    Maturities of long-term debt, including scheduled payments under the notes
payable to Argosy, which were due prior to December 31, 1999 and which have not
yet been paid are as follows:

<TABLE>
<S>                                               <C>
2000............................................  $16,687
2001............................................    2,684
</TABLE>

4. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

    The Partnership leases, a docking site, office and warehouse space from
Jazz. Rent under terms of the lease ranges from 6% to 10% of adjusted gross
receipts.

    Rent expense was $4,303, $3,354 and $3,398 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively. Approximately $3,291, $2,833 and $2,920 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, resulted from the above mentioned lease with Jazz.

    The Partnership participates in Argosy's property, general liability,
workers compensation and other insurance programs. The Partnership's estimated
share of these costs, which is allocated directly to the Partnership by Argosy,
was approximately $1,316, $1,474 and $2,511 for the years ended December 31,
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

    Indirect costs incurred by Argosy, on behalf of the Partnership are not
allocated as they are immaterial.

5. EMPLOYEES BENEFIT PLAN

    The Partnership participates in the Argosy Gaming Company Employees Savings
Trust, a 401(k) defined contribution plan which covers substantially all of its
full-time employees. Participants may contribute a portion of their eligible
salaries (as defined) subject to maximum limits, as determined by provisions of
the Internal Revenue Code. The Partnership will match a portion of participants'
contributions in an amount determined annually by the Company. Expense
recognized by the Partnership under the Plan was approximately $42, $169 and
$392 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

6. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

    The Partnership acquired equipment in the amount of $336 in 1998 which was
financed through installment contracts.

    The Partnership paid interest of $18, $3 and $500 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

                                       68
<PAGE>
                     CATFISH QUEEN PARTNERSHIP IN COMMENDAM

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

7. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    Future minimum lease payments for operating leases with initial terms in
excess of one year as of December 31, 1999 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<S>                                               <C>
Years ending December 31,
- ------------------------------------------------
2000............................................    $444
2001............................................     387
2002............................................      33
2003............................................       3
</TABLE>

    In June 1996, Argosy issued $235 million of 13 1/4% First Mortgage Notes,
due 2004 ("Mortgage Notes"). The assets of the Partnership are pledged as
collateral, and the Partnership is a guarantor, under the terms of the Mortgage
Notes. As part of a refinancing, in June 1999, Argosy retired through a tender
offer $212.7 million of its Mortgage Notes and at December 31, 1999,
$22.2 million of the Mortgage Notes remain outstanding. On June 8, 1999, Argosy
issued $200 million Senior Secured Subordinated Notes due 2009 ("Subordinated
Notes") and entered into a five year, $200 million Senior Secured revolving bank
credit agreement ("Credit Facility"). The Partnership is a named borrower under
the Credit Facility and borrowings are secured by substantially all of the
assets of the Partnership. The Partnership is a guarantor, under the terms of
the Subordinated Notes. The Subordinated Notes rank junior to all of the senior
indebtedness of Argosy, including borrowings under the Credit Facility.

                                       69
<PAGE>
                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Board of Directors
Jazz Enterprises, Inc.

    We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Jazz Enterprises, Inc. as
of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related statements of operations,
stockholder's deficit and cash flows for the each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1999. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Jazz Enterprises, Inc. at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of its operations and its cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999 in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

                                          Ernst & Young LLP

Chicago, Illinois
January 28, 2000

                                       70
<PAGE>
                             JAZZ ENTERPRISES, INC.

                                 BALANCE SHEETS

                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
CURRENT ASSETS:
  Cash and cash equivalents.................................  $     46   $     --
  Other current assets......................................       104        110
                                                              --------   --------
    Total current assets....................................       150        110
                                                              --------   --------
NET PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT..................................    50,631     52,733
GOODWILL, NET...............................................    18,728     19,325
NOTE RECEIVABLE.............................................     1,892      1,892
OTHER ASSETS................................................     1,303      1,636
                                                              --------   --------
TOTAL ASSETS................................................  $ 72,704   $ 75,696
                                                              ========   ========
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
  Accounts payable and accrued liabilities..................  $  2,923   $  2,843
  Current maturities of long-term debt......................       604        545
                                                              --------   --------
    Total current liabilities...............................     3,527      3,388
                                                              --------   --------
LONG-TERM DEBT..............................................     5,883      6,552
LONG-TERM DEBT--RELATED PARTY...............................    76,147     75,625
STOCKHOLDER'S DEFICIT:
  Common stock, no par value, 100,000 shares authorized, 200
    shares issued and outstanding...........................        --         --
  Accumulated deficit.......................................   (12,853)    (9,869)
                                                              --------   --------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDER'S DEFICIT.................  $ 72,704   $ 75,696
                                                              ========   ========
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       71
<PAGE>
                             JAZZ ENTERPRISES, INC.

                            STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
REVENUES:
  Lease revenue--related party..............................  $ 3,291    $ 2,833    $ 2,920
  Rent revenue..............................................      397        349        378
                                                              -------    -------    -------
                                                                3,688      3,182      3,298
                                                              -------    -------    -------
COSTS AND EXPENSES:
  Operating expenses........................................    1,119      1,100      1,071
  Selling, general and administrative.......................    1,695      2,882      1,608
  Depreciation and amortization.............................    2,701      2,679      2,354
                                                              -------    -------    -------
                                                                5,515      6,661      5,033
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Loss from operations........................................   (1,827)    (3,479)    (1,735)
OTHER (EXPENSE) INCOME:
  Interest expense..........................................     (805)      (860)      (909)
  Equity in loss of unconsolidated partnership..............     (352)      (756)      (838)
  Interest income...........................................       --         --        200
                                                              -------    -------    -------
NET LOSS....................................................  $(2,984)   $(5,095)   $(3,282)
                                                              =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       72
<PAGE>
                             JAZZ ENTERPRISES, INC.

                      STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDER'S DEFICIT

                       (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     COMMON     ACCUMULATED
                                                          SHARES      STOCK       DEFICIT      TOTAL
                                                         --------   ---------   -----------   --------
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>         <C>           <C>
Balance, December 31, 1996.............................    200      $     --      $ (1,492)   $ (1,492)
  Net loss.............................................     --            --        (3,282)     (3,282)
                                                           ---      ---------     --------    --------
Balance, December 31, 1997.............................    200            --        (4,774)     (4,774)
  Net loss.............................................     --            --        (5,095)     (5,095)
                                                           ---      ---------     --------    --------
Balance, December 31, 1998.............................    200            --        (9,869)     (9,869)
  Net loss.............................................     --            --        (2,984)     (2,984)
                                                           ---      ---------     --------    --------
Balance, December 31, 1999.............................    200      $     --      $(12,853)   $(12,853)
                                                           ===      =========     ========    ========
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       73
<PAGE>
                             JAZZ ENTERPRISES, INC.

                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Net loss....................................................  $(2,984)   $(5,095)   $(3,282)
Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided by
  (used in) operating activities:
    Depreciation and amortization...........................    2,701      2,679      2,354
    Write off of deferred lease costs.......................       --      1,200         --
    Equity in losses of unconsolidated partnership..........      352        756        838
    Other current assets....................................        6         27        (59)
    Accounts payable and accrued liabilities................       80       (238)      (478)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
      Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities...      155       (671)      (627)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Capital expenditures........................................       (2)      (231)      (897)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Net cash used in investing activities.......................       (2)      (231)      (897)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Increase in long-term debt..................................       --         --        760
Principal payments on long-term debt........................     (610)      (491)      (115)
Advances from affiliate.....................................      522      1,553      1,442
Increase in other assets....................................      (19)      (180)      (543)
                                                              -------    -------    -------
  Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities.......     (107)       882      1,544
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents........       46        (20)        20
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year..............       --         20         --
                                                              -------    -------    -------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year....................  $    46    $    --    $    20
                                                              =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       74
<PAGE>
                             JAZZ ENTERPRISES, INC.

                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    BASIS OF PRESENTATION--Jazz Enterprises, Inc., ("Jazz" or "the Company") a
Louisiana corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Argosy Gaming Company
("Argosy") was incorporated on June 10, 1992 for the purpose of developing a
riverboat gaming operation and an entertainment complex, known as "Catfish Town"
in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

    The Company entered into a partnership ("Partnership") with Argosy of
Louisiana, Inc., also a wholly owned subsidiary of Argosy ("ALI") in which the
Company owns 10% and ALI owns 90%, to operate a riverboat casino in Baton Rouge,
Louisiana.

    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

    Certain 1998 and 1997 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 1999
presentation.

    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS--The Company considers cash and all liquid
investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.

    The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value at
December 31, 1999.

    GOODWILL--Goodwill represents the cost in excess of fair value of net assets
acquired, at the date of acquisition, and is amortized over 40 years.
Accumulated amortization is $2,735 and $2,138 at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

    DEFERRED LEASE COSTS--The Company records tenant buildout allowances as an
intangible asset. The deferred lease costs are amortized over the respected life
of the lease. During 1998, the Company wrote off $1.2 million of deferred lease
costs related to tenants whose businesses failed. This write off is included in
selling, general and administrative expenses in the 1998 statement of
operations.

    INVESTMENT IN PARTNERSHIP--The Company records its investment in the
Partnership under the equity method as it believes that it has significant
influence over the Partnership since the Partnership's parent and Jazz are
wholly-owned subsidiaries of Argosy.

    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT--Property and equipment is recorded at cost.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the respective lease.
Depreciation is computed on the straight-line method over the shorter of the
estimated useful lives or lease period as follows:

<TABLE>
<S>                                               <C>
Buildings and improvements......................      31 years
Furniture, fixtures and equipment...............  5 to 7 years
</TABLE>

    IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS--When events or circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of long-lived assets to be held and used might not be
recoverable, the expected future undiscounted cash flows from the assets is
estimated and compared with the carrying amount of the assets. If the sum of the
estimated undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the
assets, an impairment loss is recorded. The impairment loss is measured by
comparing the fair value of the assets with their carrying amount. Long-lived
assets that are held for disposal are reported at the lower of the assets'
carrying amount or fair value less costs related to the assets' disposition. The
evaluation of the impairment of Jazz's long-lived assets is performed on a
combined basis with the long-lived assets of the Partnership, since the assets
of Jazz and the Partnership are used together to generate joint cash flows.

                                       75
<PAGE>
                             JAZZ ENTERPRISES, INC.

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    RENTAL INCOME--Rental income is recognized over the life of the associated
lease. Minimum future rents to be received under operating leases are:

<TABLE>
<S>                                               <C>
2000............................................    $378
2001............................................     439
2002............................................     493
2003............................................     211
2004............................................     106
Thereafter......................................     436
</TABLE>

    PREOPENING COSTS--Preopening costs, which consist primarily of labor,
training and marketing costs are expensed as incurred.

    ADVERTISING COSTS--The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred. The
Company did not expense any advertising costs in 1999, 1998 or 1997.

    INCOME TAXES--Earnings or losses from the Company are included in the
consolidated tax returns of Argosy. The Company computes federal and state taxes
on a separate return basis. Taxes due are settled between the Company and Argosy
in accordance with the terms of a tax sharing arrangement.

2. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Property and equipment consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               DECEMBER 31,
                                                            -------------------
                                                              1999       1998
                                                            --------   --------
<S>                                                         <C>        <C>
Land......................................................  $ 8,300    $ 8,300
Buildings and improvements................................   47,025     47,023
Furniture, fixtures and equipment.........................    2,453      2,453
                                                            -------    -------
                                                             57,778     57,776
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization............   (7,147)    (5,043)
                                                            -------    -------
Net property and equipment................................  $50,631    $52,733
                                                            =======    =======
</TABLE>

                                       76
<PAGE>
                             JAZZ ENTERPRISES, INC.

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

3. LONG-TERM DEBT

    Notes payable and long-term debt consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Notes payable to former owner, principal and interest due
  quarterly through September 2015, discounted at 10.5%.....  $ 6,487    $ 7,097
Noninterest bearing advances from Argosy, no stated
  maturity..................................................   76,147     75,625
                                                              -------    -------
                                                               82,634     82,722
Less current maturities.....................................     (604)      (545)
                                                              -------    -------
                                                              $82,030    $82,177
                                                              =======    =======
</TABLE>

    The carrying value of long-term debt approximates fair value at
December 31, 1999. Maturities of long-term debt, excluding the noninterest
bearing advances from Argosy, are as follows:

<TABLE>
<S>                                               <C>
2000............................................   $ 604
2001............................................     670
2002............................................     743
2003............................................     825
2004............................................     915
Thereafter......................................   2,730
</TABLE>

    Argosy has indicated that it will not demand payment on the noninterest
bearing advances prior to January 1, 2001 and has agreed to provide operating
support to the Company during 2000.

4. INCOME TAXES

    The provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998
and 1997, differs from that computed at the federal statutory tax rate as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    1999          1998          1997
                                                                  --------      --------      --------
<S>                                                               <C>           <C>           <C>
Tax at U. S. statutory rates................................       (34.0)%       (34.0)%       (34.0)%
State income tax, net of federal tax benefit................        (5.3)         (5.3)         (5.3)
Valuation allowance.........................................        31.3          32.9          35.0
Goodwill amortization.......................................         7.9           4.8           4.6
Other, net..................................................         0.1           1.6          (0.3)
                                                                   -----         -----         -----
                                                                     0.0%          0.0%          0.0%
                                                                   =====         =====         =====
</TABLE>

                                       77
<PAGE>
                             JAZZ ENTERPRISES, INC.

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

4. INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    The tax effects of significant temporary differences of the Company
representing deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 1999 and 1998
are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Tax over book depreciation..................................   $ (787)    $ (887)
Preopening..................................................      824        824
Net operating loss carryforwards............................    5,231      4,289
Other, net..................................................     (433)      (325)
                                                               ------     ------
                                                                4,835      3,901
Valuation allowance.........................................   (4,835)    (3,901)
                                                               ------     ------
Net deferred tax assets.....................................   $   --     $   --
                                                               ======     ======
</TABLE>

    The Company has not recorded any income tax benefit on its operating losses
and has recorded a valuation allowance against its net deferred tax assets due
to the uncertainty of realization. The Company has tax net operating loss
carryforwards of approximately $13,317 which expire from 2008 through 2019.

5. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

    The Company leases, a docking site, office and warehouse space to the
Partnership. Rent under terms of the lease ranges from 6% to 10% of adjusted
gross receipts, as defined. Revenue of $3,291, $2,833 and $2,920 in 1999, 1998
and 1997, respectively, resulted from this lease with the Partnership.

6. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

    The Company paid interest of $805, $860 and $909 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

7. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    Future minimum lease payments for operating leases with initial terms in
excess of one year as of December 31, 1999 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31,
- -------------------------
<S>                                               <C>
2000............................................  $   242
2001............................................      242
2002............................................      242
2003............................................      242
2004............................................      242
Thereafter......................................   17,162
</TABLE>

    Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997 was $245,
$240 and $244, respectively.

    In June 1996, Argosy issued $235 million of 13 1/4% First Mortgage Notes,
due 2004 ("Mortgage Notes"). The assets of the Company are pledged as
collateral, and the Company is a guarantor, under the terms of the Mortgage
Notes. As part of a refinancing, in June 1999, Argosy retired through a tender
offer

                                       78
<PAGE>
                             JAZZ ENTERPRISES, INC.

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

7. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
$212.7 million of its Mortgage Notes and at December 31, 1999, $22.2 million of
the Mortgage Notes remain outstanding. On June 8, 1999, Argosy issued
$200 million Senior Secured Subordinated Notes due 2009 ("Subordinated Notes")
and entered into a five year, $200 million Senior Secured revolving bank credit
agreement ("Credit Facility"). The Company is a named borrower under the Credit
Facility and borrowings are secured by substantially all of the assets of the
Company. The Company is a guarantor, under the terms of the Subordinated Notes.
The Subordinated Notes rank junior to all of the senior indebtedness of Argosy,
including borrowings under the Credit Facility.

                                       79
<PAGE>
                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors
The Indiana Gaming Company

    We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Indiana
Gaming Company as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholder's equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1999. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of The Indiana
Gaming Company at December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the consolidated results of
its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States.

                                          Ernst & Young LLP

Indianapolis, Indiana
January 28, 2000

                                       80
<PAGE>
                           THE INDIANA GAMING COMPANY

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
CURRENT ASSETS:
  Cash and cash equivalents.................................  $ 29,979   $ 25,491
  Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful
    accounts of $679 and $701, respectively.................       776        707
  Deferred income taxes.....................................       394        254
  Other current assets......................................       449        642
                                                              --------   --------
    Total current assets....................................    31,598     27,094
                                                              --------   --------
NET PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT..................................   187,685    194,731
OTHER ASSETS:
  Due from affiliate........................................     1,553         --
  Intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization of
    $4,120 and $2,675, respectively.........................    28,121     29,566
  Deferred income taxes.....................................        --        722
                                                              --------   --------
    Total other assets......................................    29,674     30,288
                                                              --------   --------
TOTAL ASSETS................................................  $248,957   $252,113
                                                              ========   ========
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
  Accounts payable..........................................  $  3,278   $  1,974
  Accrued payroll and related expenses......................     4,557      4,195
  Accrued interest and dividends payable-related parties....       765      2,183
  Installment contracts payable.............................        --      1,961
  Accrued admission and gaming taxes........................    16,286     10,835
  Other accrued liabilities.................................     8,926      9,402
  Income taxes payable......................................    48,266     24,534
  Current maturities of long-term debt......................     9,822     11,095
                                                              --------   --------
    Total current liabilities...............................    91,900     66,179
                                                              --------   --------
LONG-TERM DEBT..............................................    37,022    118,933
DEFERRED INCOME TAXES.......................................       408         --
MINORITY INTERESTS..........................................    45,724     30,516
STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY
  Common stock--$.01 par value, 1,000 shares authorized,
    issued and outstanding..................................        --         --
  Retained earnings.........................................    73,903     36,485
                                                              --------   --------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY..................  $248,957   $252,113
                                                              ========   ========
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       81
<PAGE>
                           THE INDIANA GAMING COMPANY

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
REVENUES:
  Casino....................................................  $308,316   $264,352   $127,908
  Admissions................................................    18,893     16,025      7,895
  Food, beverage, hotel and other...........................    33,481     24,922      7,005
                                                              --------   --------   --------
                                                               360,690    305,299    142,808
  Less promotional allowances...............................   (28,455)   (20,578)    (5,784)
                                                              --------   --------   --------
Net revenues................................................   332,235    284,721    137,024
                                                              --------   --------   --------
COSTS AND EXPENSES:
  Casino....................................................   126,572    110,330     58,081
  Food, beverage, hotel and other...........................    22,269     18,879      5,746
  Other operating expenses..................................     8,667      8,222     13,119
  Selling, general and administrative.......................    51,643     41,615     21,606
  Management fees-related parties...........................     6,154      5,201      1,924
  Depreciation and amortization.............................    13,692     12,622     10,922
                                                              --------   --------   --------
                                                               228,997    196,869    111,398
                                                              --------   --------   --------
Income from operations......................................   103,238     87,852     25,626
                                                              --------   --------   --------
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE):
  Interest income...........................................       283      1,205      1,400
  Interest expense..........................................    (7,070)   (10,254)    (3,588)
                                                              --------   --------   --------
                                                                (6,787)    (9,049)    (2,188)
                                                              --------   --------   --------
Income before minority interests and income taxes...........    96,451     78,803     23,438
Minority interests..........................................   (34,061)   (26,023)    (6,989)
Income tax expense..........................................   (24,972)   (21,220)    (3,259)
                                                              --------   --------   --------
Net income..................................................  $ 37,418   $ 31,560   $ 13,190
                                                              ========   ========   ========
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       82
<PAGE>
                           THE INDIANA GAMING COMPANY

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE INFORMATION)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                 TOTAL
                                                             COMMON         RETAINED         STOCKHOLDER'S
                                                  SHARES     STOCK     (DEFICIT) EARNINGS   (DEFICIT) EQUITY
                                                 --------   --------   ------------------   ----------------
<S>                                              <C>        <C>        <C>                  <C>
Balance, December 31, 1996.....................   1,000         --          $ (8,265)            $ (8,265)
  Net income...................................      --         --            13,190               13,190
                                                  -----     --------        --------             --------
Balance, December 31, 1997.....................   1,000         --             4,925                4,925
  Net income...................................      --         --            31,560               31,560
                                                  -----     --------        --------             --------
Balance, December 31, 1998.....................   1,000         --            36,485               36,485
  Net income...................................      --         --            37,418               37,418
                                                  -----     --------        --------             --------
Balance, December 31, 1999.....................   1,000         --          $ 73,903             $ 73,903
                                                  =====     ========        ========             ========
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       83
<PAGE>
                           THE INDIANA GAMING COMPANY

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
CASH FLOWS PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Net income..................................................  $ 37,418   $ 31,560   $ 13,190
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
  provided by operating activities:
    Depreciation and amortization...........................    13,692     12,622     10,922
    Deferred taxes..........................................       990      1,883     (2,859)
    Loss on disposal of equipment...........................       729        391         --
    Minority interests......................................    34,061     26,023      6,989
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
    Accounts receivable.....................................       (69)      (325)      (244)
    Other current assets....................................       193        537        527
    Accounts payable........................................     1,304     (3,962)     2,821
    Accrued interest payable and dividends payable--related
      party.................................................      (228)    (1,744)     1,917
    Income taxes payable....................................    23,732     18,619      5,915
    Accrued liabilities.....................................     5,331     15,684      6,381
                                                              --------   --------   --------
  Net cash provided by operating activities.................   117,153    101,288     45,559
                                                              --------   --------   --------
CASH FLOWS USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  Restricted cash held in escrow............................        --     13,114      1,805
  Purchases of property and equipment.......................    (5,925)   (27,676)  (113,141)
  Payments under development agreement......................        --     (6,583)   (13,586)
                                                              --------   --------   --------
  Net cash used in investing activities.....................    (5,925)   (21,145)  (124,922)
                                                              --------   --------   --------
CASH FLOWS PROVIDED BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
  (Decrease) increase in advances from affiliates...........   (64,677)   (52,953)    49,812
  Payments on installment contracts.........................    (1,961)    (3,125)    (4,116)
  Repayment of long-term debt--partner loans................   (16,284)   (21,939)    (2,710)
  Payment of preferred equity return to partners............    (3,253)    (3,688)    (1,163)
  Common equity distributions...............................   (14,672)   (10,808)    (1,514)
  Payment of preferred equity principal to partner..........    (2,118)        --         --
  (Payments on) proceeds from long-term debt................    (3,775)    (3,292)    71,648
  Other.....................................................        --       (104)      (553)
                                                              --------   --------   --------
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities.........  (106,740)   (95,909)   111,404
                                                              --------   --------   --------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents........     4,488    (15,766)    32,041
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year................    25,491     41,257      9,216
                                                              --------   --------   --------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year......................  $ 29,979   $ 25,491   $ 41,257
                                                              ========   ========   ========
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       84
<PAGE>
                           THE INDIANA GAMING COMPANY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    BASIS OF PRESENTATION--The Indiana Gaming Company, a wholly owned subsidiary
of Argosy Gaming Company ("Argosy") (collectively with its controlled
partnership Indiana Gaming Company L.P. ("Partnership") "the Company") was
formed effective April 11, 1994 to provide riverboat gaming and related
entertainment in Lawrenceburg, Indiana. The Company is a 57.5% general partner
in the Partnership, together with two limited partners including, Conseco
Entertainment, L.L.C., ("Conseco") a 29% limited partner, and Centaur, Inc., a
13.5% limited partner. On December 10, 1996, the Company commenced operations at
a temporary site and ceased being in the development stage. The Partnership
opened its permanent pavilion on December 10, 1997.

    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. These
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and the
Partnership. All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated.

    Certain 1998 and 1997 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 1999
presentation.

    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS--The Company considers cash and all highly liquid
investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.

    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT--Property and equipment are recorded at cost.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the respective lease.
Depreciation is computed on the straight-line method over the following
estimated useful lives:

<TABLE>
<S>                                                           <C>
Building and leasehold and shore improvements...............  5 to 33 years
Riverboat, docks and improvements...........................  5 to 20 years
Furniture, fixtures and equipment...........................  5 to 10 years
</TABLE>

    IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS--When events or circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of long-lived assets to be held and used might not be
recoverable, the expected future undiscounted cash flows from the assets is
estimated and compared with the carrying amount of the assets. If the sum of the
estimated undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the
assets, an impairment loss is recorded. The impairment loss is measured by
comparing the fair value of the assets with their carrying amount. Long-lived
assets that are held for disposal are reported at the lower of the assets'
carrying amount or fair value less costs related to the assets' disposition.

    LICENSE APPLICATION FEES--License application fees associated with obtaining
a gaming license have been capitalized and are a part of intangible assets at
December 31, 1999 and 1998. These costs are being amortized over the life of the
gaming license, which is five years. Accumulated amortization was $401 and $271
at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

    REVENUES AND PROMOTIONAL ALLOWANCES--The Company recognizes as casino
revenues the net win from gaming activities, which is the difference between
gaming wins and losses. Admissions, hotel and other revenue is recognized at the
time the related service is performed.

    The retail value of admissions, hotel rooms, food, beverage and other items
provided to customers without charge has been included in revenues, and a
corresponding amount has been deducted as

                                       85
<PAGE>
                           THE INDIANA GAMING COMPANY

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
promotional allowances. The estimated direct cost of providing promotional
allowances has been included in costs and expenses as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       1999       1998       1997
                                                     --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                  <C>        <C>        <C>
Admissions.........................................  $ 5,895     $4,409     $1,646
Hotel rooms........................................    1,059        751         --
Food, beverage and other...........................   11,590      9,455      2,459
</TABLE>

    ADVERTISING COSTS--The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred.
Advertising expense was $5,803, $5,245 and $4,877 for the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

    INCOME TAXES--Earnings or losses from the Company are included in the
consolidated income tax returns of Argosy. The Company computes federal and
state income taxes on a separate return basis. Taxes due are settled between the
Company and Argosy in accordance with the terms of a tax sharing arrangement.

2. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Property and equipment consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             DECEMBER 31,
                                                          -------------------
                                                            1999       1998
                                                          --------   --------
<S>                                                       <C>        <C>
Land....................................................  $ 16,045   $ 16,045
Building and leasehold and shore improvements...........   129,157    128,923
Riverboat, docks and improvements.......................    41,808     40,191
Furniture, fixtures and equipment.......................    33,412     31,134
                                                          --------   --------
                                                           220,422    216,293
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization..........   (32,737)   (21,562)
                                                          --------   --------
Net property and equipment..............................  $187,685   $194,731
                                                          ========   ========
</TABLE>

                                       86
<PAGE>
                           THE INDIANA GAMING COMPANY

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

3. LONG-TERM DEBT

    Long-term debt consists of the following at December 31, 1999 and 1998:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            1999       1998
                                                          --------   --------
<S>                                                       <C>        <C>
Capital loans payable to Argosy, noninterest bearing, no
  stated due date.......................................  $     --   $ 63,125
Capital loans payable to Conseco, interest at prime plus
  6% (14.5% at December 31, 1999) principal paid in
  annual installments through 2004......................    28,911     45,196
Notes payable, principal and interest payments due
  monthly through December 2001, interest payable at
  prime plus 1% (9.5% at December 31, 1999).............    17,933     21,707
                                                          --------   --------
                                                            46,844    130,028
Less current maturities.................................    (9,822)   (11,095)
                                                          --------   --------
                                                          $ 37,022   $118,933
                                                          ========   ========
</TABLE>

    Interest expense on the capital loans from Conseco compounds quarterly to
the extent unpaid. The Company is obligated to pay contemporaneously with
distributions of Cash Flow, as defined, current and accrued interest and then
principal on the capital loans to the Partners, pro rata, in relation to their
principal balance of the respective capital loans then outstanding.

    Capital loans payable to Argosy were paid with distributions of Cash Flow
from the Partnership.

    Interest expense amounted to $7,070, $10,254 (net of $1,086 capitalized) and
$3,588 (net of $8,391 capitalized) in the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998
and 1997, respectively.

    Maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 1999 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<S>                                                          <C>
2000.......................................................  $ 9,822
2001.......................................................   19,677
2002.......................................................    5,782
2003.......................................................    5,782
2004.......................................................    5,781
</TABLE>

                                       87
<PAGE>
                           THE INDIANA GAMING COMPANY

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

4. INCOME TAXES

    Income tax expense for years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 consists
of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                   ------------------------------
                                                     1999       1998       1997
                                                   --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                <C>        <C>        <C>
Current:
  Federal........................................  $20,914    $16,863    $ 5,337
  State..........................................    3,068      2,474        781
                                                   -------    -------    -------
Total current....................................   23,982     19,337      6,118
                                                   -------    -------    -------
Deferred:
  Federal........................................      863      1,642     (2,466)
  State..........................................      127        241       (393)
                                                   -------    -------    -------
Total deferred...................................      990      1,883     (2,859)
                                                   -------    -------    -------
Income tax expense...............................  $24,972    $21,220    $ 3,259
                                                   =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>

    The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 1999, 1998
and 1997 differs from that computed at the Federal Statutory tax rate as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             1999       1998       1997
                                                           --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                        <C>        <C>        <C>
Federal statutory rate...................................    35.0%      35.0%      35.0%
State income taxes, net of federal benefit...............     5.1        5.1        5.1
Valuation allowance......................................      --         --      (20.0)
Other....................................................    (0.1)       0.1       (0.3)
                                                             ----       ----      -----
                                                             40.0%      40.2%      19.8%
                                                             ====       ====      =====
</TABLE>

    The tax effects of significant temporary differences representing deferred
tax assets (liabilities) at December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      1999       1998       1997
                                                    --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                 <C>        <C>        <C>
Depreciation......................................  $(1,841)   $(1,384)    $   --
Preopening........................................    1,433      2,106      2,785
Other, net........................................      394        254         74
                                                    -------    -------     ------
                                                    $   (14)   $   976     $2,859
                                                    =======    =======     ======
</TABLE>

    The Company utilized a net operating loss carryforward for income tax
purposes of approximately $260 during 1997.

5. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

    The Company acquired equipment in the amount of $1,798 and $4,154, 1998 and
1997, respectively, which was financed through installment contracts.

                                       88
<PAGE>
                           THE INDIANA GAMING COMPANY

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

5. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
    The Company paid $7,141(including $5,350 to related parties), $12,467
(including $9,908 to related parties) and $5,300 (including $5,007 to related
parties) in interest for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

    The Company paid $250, $778 and $143 in taxes for the year ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

6. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

    The Partnership has entered into a Management Agreement, as amended
("Management Agreement"), with the Company, as the sole and exclusive manager of
all operations of the Partnership. The term of the Management Agreement is
twenty years, however, the term may be extended in the event that the term of
the Partnership is extended beyond the year 2014. The Partnership will pay to
the Company a Management Fee in the amount of 12.5% of the operating profit of
the Partnership, as defined. Under a separate financial advisory agreement the
Company has agreed to pay Conseco a financial advisory fee equal to 40% of the
management fee.

    The partnership agreement stipulates that the Partnership shall distribute
excess cash flow, as defined, to the partners at least quarterly, in the
following order: (i) partner tax distributions, (ii) prepayment of principal on
capital loans, (iii) accrued preferred equity return, (iv) return of preferred
equity and, (v) return of common equity.

    The Company entered into lease agreements with Argosy for the temporary
riverboat casino and related landing facility. Aggregate monthly rentals were
approximately $500 for these facilities. Total expense recognized under the
leases was $5,665 in 1997. These leases expired in 1997.

    Argosy provides certain services for the Company which consist primarily of
centralized reservations and insurance. Reimbursement for these expenses has
been included in the income statement in the appropriate cost categories.

    The Company has entered into leases with shareholders of a limited partner
for parking lots and outdoor advertising. Total expense recognized under these
leases was $104, $106 and $107 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

7. EMPLOYEES BENEFIT PLAN

    The Company participates in the Argosy Gaming Company Employees Savings
Trust, a 401(k) defined contribution plan which covers substantially all of its
full-time employees. Participants may contribute a portion of their eligible
salaries (as defined) subject to maximum limits, as determined by provisions of
the Internal Revenue Code. The Company will match a portion of participants'
contributions in an amount determined annually by the Company. Expense
recognized under the Plan was $743, $410 and $517 for the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

                                       89
<PAGE>
                           THE INDIANA GAMING COMPANY

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    Future minimum lease payments for operating leases with initial terms in
excess of one year, including related party leases, as of December 31, 1999, are
as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31,
- -------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>
2000.......................................................  $   422
2001.......................................................      196
2002.......................................................      143
2003.......................................................        3
</TABLE>

    Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, 1997 was $789,
$745 and $6,459, respectively.

    CITY INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS AND UNRESTRICTED GRANTS--In accordance with
the terms of a development agreement, the Company entered into a lease with the
City of Lawrenceburg for docking privileges for the riverboat casino. The
initial term of the lease is for six years and thereafter automatically extends
for up to nine renewal term periods of five years each, unless terminated by the
Company. Under the terms of the development agreement, the Company pays an
annual fee to the City of Lawrenceburg ranging from 5%-14% of Adjusted Gross
Receipts, as defined, with a minimum of $6 million per year.

    The Company paid the City of Lawrenceburg approximately $33,848 in
reimbursements for infrastructure improvements and unrestricted grants. These
have been recorded as an intangible asset in the balance sheet at December 31,
1999 and 1998. The reimbursement for infrastructure improvements and
unrestricted city grants are being amortized over the 28 year term, including
extensions, of the development agreement. Accumulated amortization was $3,424
and $2,256 for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

    BONDING OBLIGATION--The Company is required, by Indiana Gaming Statute, to
post a bond in favor of the Indiana Gaming Commission to collateralize certain
obligations to the City of Lawrenceburg under the Development Agreement, and to
the State of Indiana. This bond is collateralized by certain real estate of the
Company.

    TERMINATION OF LAWRENCEBURG PARTNERSHIP--Under the terms of the partnership
agreement, after December 10, 1999, each limited partner has the right to sell
its interest to the other partners (pro rata in accordance with their respective
percentage interests). In the event of this occurrence, if the partners cannot
agree on a selling price, the Partnership will be sold in its entirety. As of
January 28, 2000, none of the partners have exercised their right to sell its
interest to the other partners.

    GUARANTY OF PARENT OBLIGATIONS--In June 1996, Argosy issued $235 million of
13 1/4% First Mortgage Notes, due 2004 ("Mortgage Notes"). The Company has
pledged its interest in the Partnership, as collateral, and the Company is a
guarantor, under the terms of the Mortgage Notes. As part of a refinancing, in
June 1999, Argosy retired through a tender offer $212.7 million of its Mortgage
Notes and at December 31, 1999, $22.2 million of the Mortgage Notes remain
outstanding. On June 8, 1999, Argosy issued $200 million of Senior Subordinated
Notes due 2009 ("Subordinated Notes") and entered into a five year,
$200 million Senior Secured revolving bank credit agreement ("Credit Facility").
The Company is a named borrower under the Credit Facility and borrowings are
secured by substantially all the assets of the Company except those assets of
the Partnership. The Company is a guarantor, under the terms of the Subordinated
Notes. The Subordinated Notes rank junior to all of the senior indebtedness of
Argosy, including borrowings under the Credit Facility.

                                       90
<PAGE>
                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Partners
Indiana Gaming Company, L.P.

    We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Indiana Gaming Company,
L.P. as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related statements of income,
partners' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1999. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Partnership's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Indiana Gaming Company, L.P.
at December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of its operations and its cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.

                                          Ernst & Young LLP

Indianapolis, Indiana
January 28, 2000

                                       91
<PAGE>
                          INDIANA GAMING COMPANY, L.P.

                                 BALANCE SHEETS

                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
CURRENT ASSETS:
  Cash and cash equivalents.................................  $ 29,979   $ 25,491
  Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful
    accounts of $679 and $701, respectively.................       776        707
  Other current assets......................................       449        642
                                                              --------   --------
    Total current assets....................................    31,204     26,840
                                                              --------   --------
NET PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT..................................   186,477    193,469
OTHER ASSETS:
  Intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization of
    $4,120 and $2,675, respectively.........................    28,121     29,566
                                                              --------   --------
    Total other assets......................................    28,121     29,566
                                                              --------   --------
TOTAL ASSETS................................................  $245,802   $249,875
                                                              ========   ========
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
  Accounts payable..........................................  $  3,278   $  2,744
  Accrued payroll and related expenses......................     4,557      4,195
  Accrued interest and preferred equity return..............     2,120      4,574
  Installment contracts payable.............................        --      1,961
  Accrued admission and gaming taxes........................    16,286     10,835
  Other accrued liabilities.................................     8,666      8,360
  Due to affiliates.........................................       953        945
  Current maturities of long-term debt......................    17,875     21,478
                                                              --------   --------
    Total current liabilities...............................    53,735     55,092
                                                              --------   --------
LONG-TERM DEBT..............................................    69,234    107,722
PARTNERS' EQUITY:
  General partner...........................................    77,160     56,592
  Limited partners..........................................    45,673     30,469
                                                              --------   --------
    Total partners' equity..................................   122,833     87,061
                                                              --------   --------
  TOTAL LIABILITIES AND PARTNERS' EQUITY....................  $245,802   $249,875
                                                              ========   ========
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       92
<PAGE>
                          INDIANA GAMING COMPANY, L.P.

                              STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
REVENUES:
  Casino....................................................  $308,316   $264,352   $127,908
  Admissions................................................    18,893     16,025      7,895
  Food, beverage, hotel and other...........................    33,481     24,922      7,005
                                                              --------   --------   --------
                                                               360,690    305,299    142,808
  Less promotional allowances...............................   (28,455)   (20,578)    (5,784)
                                                              --------   --------   --------
Net revenues................................................   332,235    284,721    137,024
                                                              --------   --------   --------
COSTS AND EXPENSES:
  Casino....................................................   126,572    110,330     58,081
  Food, beverage, hotel and other...........................    22,269     18,879      5,746
  Other operating expenses..................................     8,667      8,222     13,119
  Selling, general and administrative.......................    51,643     41,615     21,607
  Management fees-related parties...........................    15,386     13,209      4,809
  Depreciation and amortization.............................    13,634     12,567     10,922
                                                              --------   --------   --------
                                                               238,171    204,822    114,284
                                                              --------   --------   --------
Income from operations......................................    94,064     79,899     22,740

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE):
  Interest income...........................................       283      1,205      1,400
  Interest expense..........................................   (14,203)   (19,874)    (7,694)
                                                              --------   --------   --------
                                                               (13,920)   (18,669)    (6,294)
                                                              --------   --------   --------
Net income prior to preferred equity return.................    80,144     61,230     16,446
Preferred equity return.....................................    (4,864)    (5,554)    (5,443)
                                                              --------   --------   --------
Net income attributable to common equity partners...........  $ 75,280   $ 55,676   $ 11,003
                                                              ========   ========   ========
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       93
<PAGE>
                          INDIANA GAMING COMPANY, L.P.

                         STATEMENTS OF PARTNERS' EQUITY

                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        COMMON EQUITY (DEFICIT)              PREFERRED EQUITY
                                     ------------------------------   ------------------------------     TOTAL
                                     GENERAL    LIMITED               GENERAL    LIMITED               PARTNERS'
                                     PARTNER    PARTNERS    TOTAL     PARTNER    PARTNERS    TOTAL      EQUITY
                                     --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   ---------
<S>                                  <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Balance, December 31, 1996.........  $ (1,007)  $   (746)  $ (1,753)  $20,556    $15,194    $35,750    $ 33,997
  Net income prior to preferred
    equity return..................     9,456      6,990     16,446        --         --         --      16,446
  Preferred equity return..........    (3,130)    (2,313)    (5,443)    3,136      2,307      5,443          --
  Accrued preferred equity
    distribution...................        --         --         --    (3,136)    (2,307)    (5,443)     (5,443)
  Common equity distributions......    (2,049)    (1,514)    (3,563)       --         --         --      (3,563)
  Capital contributions............    13,569         --     13,569        --         --         --      13,569
                                     --------   --------   --------   -------    -------    -------    --------
Balance, December 31, 1997.........    16,839      2,417     19,256    20,556     15,194     35,750      55,006
  Net income prior to preferred
    equity return..................    35,207     26,023     61,230        --         --         --      61,230
  Preferred equity return..........    (3,199)    (2,355)    (5,554)    3,194      2,360      5,554          --
  Accrued preferred equity
    distribution...................        --         --         --    (3,194)    (2,360)    (5,554)     (5,554)
  Common equity distributions......   (14,625)   (10,810)   (25,435)       --         --         --     (25,435)
  Capital contributions............     1,814         --      1,814        --         --         --       1,814
                                     --------   --------   --------   -------    -------    -------    --------
Balance, December 31, 1998.........    36,036     15,275     51,311    20,556     15,194     35,750      87,061
  Net income prior to preferred
    equity return..................    46,083     34,061     80,144        --         --         --      80,144
  Preferred equity return..........    (2,797)    (2,067)    (4,864)    2,801      2,063      4,864          --
  Accrued preferred equity
    distribution...................        --         --         --    (2,801)    (2,063)    (4,864)     (4,864)
  Preferred equity principal
    repayments.....................        --         --         --    (2,866)    (2,118)    (4,984)     (4,984)
  Common equity distributions......   (19,852)   (14,672)   (34,524)       --         --         --     (34,524)
                                     --------   --------   --------   -------    -------    -------    --------
Balance, December 31, 1999.........  $ 59,470   $ 32,597   $ 92,067   $17,690    $13,076    $30,766    $122,833
                                     ========   ========   ========   =======    =======    =======    ========
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       94
<PAGE>
                          INDIANA GAMING COMPANY, L.P.

                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
CASH FLOWS PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
  Net income attributable to common equity partners.........  $ 75,280   $ 55,676   $ 11,003
  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided
    by operating activities:
      Depreciation and amortization.........................    13,634     12,567     10,922
      Accrued preferred equity dividends....................     4,864      5,554      5,443
      Loss on disposal of equipment.........................       729        391         --
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
      Accounts receivable...................................       (69)      (325)      (244)
      Other current assets..................................       193        537        527
      Accounts payable......................................       534     (3,192)     3,502
      Accrued interest payable..............................    (2,627)    (8,010)     4,625
      Accrued liabilities...................................     9,223     17,914      5,436
                                                              --------   --------   --------
        Net cash provided by operating activities...........   101,761     81,112     41,214
                                                              --------   --------   --------
CASH FLOWS USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  Restricted cash held in escrow............................        --     13,114      1,805
  Purchases of property and equipment.......................    (5,925)   (27,676)  (112,867)
  Payments under development agreement......................        --     (6,583)   (13,586)
                                                              --------   --------   --------
        Net cash used in investing activities...............    (5,925)   (21,145)  (124,648)
                                                              --------   --------   --------
CASH FLOWS (USED IN) PROVIDED BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
  Payments on installment contracts.........................    (1,961)    (3,125)    (4,116)
  Payment of preferred return to partners...................    (7,788)    (8,680)    (2,736)
  Payment of preferred equity principal to partner..........    (4,984)        --         --
  Proceeds from contributed capital.........................        --      1,814     13,569
  Repayment of long-term debt-related party.................   (38,317)   (36,911)    (6,369)
  Repayment of long-term debt-outside party.................    (3,774)    (3,292)        --
  Proceeds from long-term debt..............................        --         --    119,243
  Common equity distributions...............................   (34,524)   (25,435)    (3,563)
  Other.....................................................        --       (104)      (553)
                                                              --------   --------   --------
    Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities.....   (91,348)   (75,733)   115,475
                                                              --------   --------   --------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents........     4,488    (15,766)    32,041
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year................    25,491     41,257      9,216
                                                              --------   --------   --------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year......................  $ 29,979   $ 25,491   $ 41,257
                                                              ========   ========   ========
</TABLE>

                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       95
<PAGE>
                          INDIANA GAMING COMPANY, L.P.

                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    BASIS OF PRESENTATION--Indiana Gaming Company, L.P. ("Partnership"), an
Indiana limited partnership, was formed to provide riverboat gaming and related
entertainment in Lawrenceburg, Indiana. The Partnership is comprised of a 57.5%
general partner, The Indiana Gaming Company ("General Partner"), a wholly owned
subsidiary of Argosy Gaming Company, ("Argosy"), and two limited partners
including, Conseco Entertainment, L.L.C., ("Conseco") a 29% limited partner, and
Centaur, Inc., a 13.5% limited partner. Net income is allocated to the partners
based on their respective ownership interests. On December 10, 1996, the
Partnership commenced operations at a temporary site and ceased being in the
development stage. The Partnership opened its permanent pavilion on
December 10, 1997.

    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

    Certain 1998 and 1997 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 1999
presentation.

    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS--The Partnership considers cash and all highly
liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.

    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT--Property and equipment are recorded at cost.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the respective lease.
Depreciation is computed on the straight-line method over the following
estimated useful lives:

<TABLE>
<S>                                                           <C>
Building and leasehold and shore improvements...............  5 to 33 years
Riverboat, docks and improvements...........................  5 to 20 years
Furniture, fixtures and equipment...........................  5 to 10 years
</TABLE>

    IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS--When events or circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount of long-lived assets to be held and used might not be
recoverable, the expected future undiscounted cash flows from the assets is
estimated and compared with the carrying amount of the assets. If the sum of the
estimated undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the
assets, an impairment loss is recorded. The impairment loss is measured by
comparing the fair value of the assets with their carrying amount. Long-lived
assets that are held for disposal are reported at the lower of the assets'
carrying amount or fair value less costs related to the assets' disposition.

    LICENSE APPLICATION FEES--License application fees associated with obtaining
a gaming license have been capitalized and included in the balance sheet as a
part of intangible assets at December 31, 1999 and 1998. These costs are being
amortized over the life of the gaming license, which is five years. Accumulated
amortization was $401 and $271 at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

    REVENUES AND PROMOTIONAL ALLOWANCES--The Partnership recognizes as casino
revenues the net win from gaming activities, which is the difference between
gaming wins and losses. Admissions, hotel and other revenue is recognized at the
time the related service is performed.

    The retail value of admissions, hotel rooms, food, beverage and other items
provided to customers without charge has been included in revenues, and a
corresponding amount has been deducted as

                                       96
<PAGE>
                          INDIANA GAMING COMPANY, L.P.

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
promotional allowances. The estimated direct cost of providing promotional
allowances has been included in costs and expenses as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
Admissions..................................................   $5,895     $4,409     $1,646
Hotel rooms.................................................    1,059        751         --
Food, beverage and other....................................   11,590      9,455      2,459
</TABLE>

    ADVERTISING COSTS--The Partnership expenses advertising costs as incurred.
Advertising expense was $5,803, $5,245 and $4,877 for the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

    INCOME TAXES--No provision for federal or state income taxes is recorded in
the financial statements, as income taxes are the responsibility of the
individual partners.

2. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Property and equipment consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Land........................................................  $ 16,045   $ 16,045
Building and leasehold and shore improvements...............   127,839    127,605
Riverboat, docks and improvements...........................    41,808     40,191
Furniture, fixtures and equipment...........................    33,412     31,135
                                                              --------   --------
                                                               219,104    214,976
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization..............   (32,627)   (21,507)
                                                              --------   --------
Net property and equipment..................................  $186,477   $193,469
                                                              ========   ========
</TABLE>

3. LONG-TERM DEBT

    Long-term debt consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  DECEMBER 31,
                                                              --------------------
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   ---------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Capital loans payable to partners, interest at prime plus 6%
  (14.5% at December 31, 1999), principal paid in annual
  installments through 2004.................................  $ 69,176   $ 107,493
Notes payable, principal and interest payments due monthly
  through December 2001, interest payable at prime plus 1%
  (9.5% at December 31, 1999)...............................    17,933      21,707
                                                              --------   ---------
                                                                87,109     129,200
Less current maturities.....................................   (17,875)    (21,478)
                                                              --------   ---------
                                                              $ 69,234   $ 107,722
                                                              ========   =========
</TABLE>

                                       97
<PAGE>
                          INDIANA GAMING COMPANY, L.P.

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

3. LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
    Interest expense on the capital loans from the partners compounds quarterly
to the extent unpaid. The Partnership is obligated to pay contemporaneously with
distributions of Cash Flow, as defined, current and accrued interest, first, and
then principal, on the Capital Loans to the Partners, pro rata, in relation to
the principal balances of their respective Capital Loans then outstanding.

    The Notes payable are collateralized by the vessel and certain equipment.

    Interest expense to related parties amounted to $12,240, $18,444 (net of
$1,146 capitalized) and $7,320 (net of $8,321 capitalized) for the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

    Maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 1999 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<S>                                                          <C>
2000.......................................................  $17,875
2001.......................................................   27,728
2002.......................................................   13,835
2003.......................................................   13,835
2004.......................................................   13,836
</TABLE>

4. PREFERRED EQUITY

    Under the terms of the partnership agreement governing the Partnership,
preferred equity of $35,750 has been contributed to the Partnership. Of this
amount $20,556 was contributed by the General Partner and $15,194 was
contributed by Conseco.

    The preferred equity carries a 14% dividend rate which is cumulative and is
compounded annually. The preferred equity return is to be paid from available
cash flow, as defined, in accordance with the terms of the partnership
agreement.

    During 1999, in accordance with the partnership agreement, $4,984 of the
preferred equity initially contributed was repaid. Of the amount repaid, $2,866
was paid to the General Partner and $2,118 was paid to Conseco.

5. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

    The Partnership acquired equipment in the amount of $1,798 and $4,154 in
1998, and 1997, respectively, which was financed through installment contracts.

    The Partnership paid $13,735 ($11,943 to related parties), $25,889 ($23,329
to related parties) and $12,004 ($11,712 to related parties) in interest for the
years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

6. OTHER RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

    The Partnership has entered into a Management Agreement, as amended
("Management Agreement"), with the General Partner, as the sole and exclusive
manager of all operations of the Partnership. The term of the Management
Agreement is twenty years, however, the term may be extended in the event that
the term of the Partnership is extended beyond the year 2014. The Partnership
will pay to the General Partner a Management Fee in the amount of 12.5% of the
operating profit of the Partnership, as defined.

                                       98
<PAGE>
                          INDIANA GAMING COMPANY, L.P.

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

6. OTHER RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)
Under a separate financial advisory agreement the General Partner has agreed to
pay Conseco a financial advisory fee equal to 40% of the Management Fee.

    The partnership agreement stipulates that the Partnership shall distribute
excess cash flow, as defined, to the partners at least quarterly, in the
following order: (i) partner tax distributions, (ii) prepayment of principal on
capital loans, (iii) accrued preferred equity return, (iv) return of preferred
equity and, (v) return of common equity.

    The Partnership entered into lease agreements with Argosy for the temporary
riverboat casino and related landing facility. Aggregate monthly rentals were
approximately $500 for these facilities. Total expense recognized under the
leases was $5,665 in 1997. These leases expired in 1997.

    Argosy provides certain services for the Partnership which consist primarily
of centralized reservations and insurance. Reimbursement for these expenses has
been included in the income statement in the appropriate cost categories.

    The Partnership has entered into leases with shareholders of a limited
partner for parking lots and outdoor advertising. Total expense recognized under
these leases was $104, $106 and $107 in 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

7. EMPLOYEES BENEFIT PLAN

    The Company participates in the Argosy Gaming Company Employees Savings
Trust, a 401(k) defined contribution plan, which covers substantially all of its
full time employees. Participants may contribute a portion of their eligible
salaries (as defined) subject to maximum limits, as determined by provisions of
the Internal Revenue Code. The Company will match a portion of participants
contributions in an amount determined annually by the Company. Expense
recognized by the Company under the Plan was $743, $410 and $517 for the years
ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    Future minimum lease payments for operating leases with initial terms in
excess of one year, including related party leases, as of December 31, 1999, are
as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31,
- -------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>
2000.......................................................    $422
2001.......................................................     196
2002.......................................................     143
2003.......................................................       3
</TABLE>

    Rent expense, including related party leases, for the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $789, $745 and $6,459, respectively.

    CITY INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS AND UNRESTRICTED GRANTS--In accordance with
the terms of a development agreement, the Partnership entered into a lease with
the City of Lawrenceburg for docking privileges for its riverboat casino. The
initial term of the lease is for six years and thereafter automatically extends
for up to nine renewal term periods of five years each, unless terminated by the
Partnership. Under the terms

                                       99
<PAGE>
                          INDIANA GAMING COMPANY, L.P.

                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)
of the development agreement, the Partnership pays an annual fee to the City of
Lawrenceburg ranging from 5%-14% of Adjusted Gross Receipts, as defined, with a
minimum of $6 million per year.

    The Partnership paid the City of Lawrenceburg $33,848 in reimbursements for
infrastructure improvements and unrestricted grants. Subsequent to the
commencement of operations at the temporary site, these have been recorded as an
intangible asset in the balance sheet at December 31, 1999 and 1998. The
reimbursement for infrastructure improvements and unrestricted city grants are
being amortized over the 28-year term, including extensions, of the development
agreement. Accumulated amortization was $3,424 and $2,256 at December 31, 1999
and 1998, respectively.

    BONDING OBLIGATION--The Partnership is required, by Indiana Gaming Statute,
to post a bond in favor of the Indiana Gaming Commission to collateralize
certain obligations to the City of Lawrenceburg under the Development Agreement,
and to the State of Indiana. This bond is collateralized by certain real estate
of the Partnership.

    TERMINATION OF LAWRENCEBURG PARTNERSHIP--Under the terms of the Partnership
Agreement, after December 10, 1999, each limited partner has the right to sell
its interest to the other partners (pro rata in accordance with their respective
percentage interests). In the event of this occurrence, if the partners cannot
agree on a selling price, the Partnership will be sold in its entirety. As of
January 28, 2000, none of the partners have exercised their right to sell its
interest to the other partners.

                                      100
<PAGE>
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The information required in response to this item is set forth under the
captions "Election of Directors" and "Management" in the Proxy Statement and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    The information required in response to this item is set forth under the
caption "Executive Compensation" in the Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    The information required in response to this item is set forth under the
caption "Record Date, Required Vote, Outstanding Shares and Holdings of Certain
Stockholders--Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" in
the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    The information required in response to this item is set forth under the
caption "Certain Transactions" in the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein
by reference.

                                      101
<PAGE>
                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K.

        1.  The following consolidated financial statements of the Company and
    independent auditors' report thereon, included in the Annual Report, are
    incorporated by reference in Item 8. The remaining information appearing in
    the Annual Report is not deemed to be filed as part of this report, except
    as expressly provided herein.

        Consolidated Balance Sheets--December 31, 1999 and 1998.

        Consolidated Statements of Operations--years ended December 31, 1999,
    1998 and 1997.

        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--years ended December 31, 1999,
    1998 and 1997.

        Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity--years ended
    December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

        Report of Independent Auditors.

        2.  The following consolidated financial schedules of Argosy Gaming
    Company are included in response to Item 14 (a):

           I. Condensed Financial Information of Registrant S-1.

           All other schedules specified under Regulation S-X for Argosy Gaming
       Company have been omitted because they are either non-applicable, not
       required or because the information required is included in the financial
       statements or notes thereto.

        3.  The exhibits listed on the "Index to Exhibits" on page 103 are filed
    with this Form 10-K or incorporated by reference as set forth below.

                                      102
<PAGE>
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
       EXHIBIT
       NUMBER                                   DESCRIPTION
- ---------------------                           -----------
<S>                     <C>
         3.1            Amended and Restated Certification of Incorporation of the
                        Company (previously filed with the Securities and Exchange
                        Commission ("SEC") as an Exhibit to the Company's
                        Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-55878) and
                        incorporated herein by reference).

         3.2            Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company (previously
                        filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's
                        Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-55878) and
                        incorporated herein by reference).

         3.3            Certificate of Incorporation of Alton Gaming Company
                        (previously filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the
                        Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No.
                        333-83567) and incorporated herein by reference).

         3.4            By-laws of Alton Gaming Company (previously filed with the
                        SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on
                        Form S-4 (File No. 333-83567) and incorporated herein by
                        reference).

         3.5            Certificate of Incorporation of Argosy of Louisiana, Inc.
                        (previously filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the
                        Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No.
                        333-83567) and incorporated herein by reference).

         3.6            By-laws of Argosy of Louisiana, Inc. (previously filed with
                        the SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration
                        Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-83567) and incorporated
                        herein by reference).

         3.7            Amended and Restated Articles of Partnership In Commendam of
                        Catfish Queen Partnership In Commendam (previously filed
                        with the SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration
                        Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-83567) and incorporated
                        herein by reference).

         3.8            Certificate of Incorporation of the Indiana Gaming Company
                        (previously filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the
                        Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No.
                        333-83567) and incorporated herein by reference).

         3.9            By-laws of the Indiana Gaming Company (previously filed with
                        the SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration
                        Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-83567) and incorporated
                        herein by reference).

         3.10           Certificate of Incorporation of Iowa Gaming Company
                        (previously filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the
                        Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No.
                        333-83567) and incorporated herein by reference).

         3.11           By-laws of Iowa Gaming Company (previously filed with the
                        SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on
                        Form S-4 (File No. 333-83567) and incorporated herein by
                        reference).

         3.12           Certificate of Incorporation of Jazz Enterprises, Inc.
                        (previously filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the
                        Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No.
                        333-83567) and incorporated herein by reference).

         3.13           By-laws of Jazz Enterprises, Inc. (previously filed with the
                        SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on
                        Form S-4 (File No. 333-83567) and incorporated herein by
                        reference).
</TABLE>

                                      103
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
       EXHIBIT
       NUMBER                                   DESCRIPTION
- ---------------------                           -----------
<S>                     <C>
         3.14           Certificate of Incorporation of The Missouri Gaming Company
                        (previously filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the
                        Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No.
                        333-83567) and incorporated herein by reference).

         3.15           By-laws of The Missouri Gaming Company (previously filed
                        with the SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration
                        Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-83567) and incorporated
                        herein by reference).

         4.1            Form of the Company's 13 1/4% First Mortgage Notes due 2004
                        issued on June 5, 1996 in the aggregate principal amount of
                        $235,000,000 (previously filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to
                        the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No.
                        333-7299) and incorporated herein by reference).

         4.2            Indenture dated as of June 5, 1996 by and among the Company,
                        First National Bank of Commerce, as Trustee, and the
                        Guarantors named therein, for the Company's $235,000,000 of
                        13 1/4% First Mortgage Notes due 2004 (previously filed with
                        the SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration
                        Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-7299) and incorporated
                        herein by reference).

         4.3            First Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 18, 1999, with
                        respect to the Indenture dated as of June 5, 1996, by and
                        among the Company, Bank One Trust Company, NA. (as successor
                        in interest to First National Bank of Commerce), as Trustee,
                        and the Guarantors named therein, for the Company's 13 1/4%
                        First Mortgage Notes due 2004. (previously filed with the
                        SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on
                        Form S-4 (File No. 333-83567) and incorporated herein by
                        reference).

         4.4            Specimen Common Stock Certificate (previously filed with the
                        SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on
                        Form S-1 (File No. 33-55878) and incorporated herein by
                        reference).

         4.5            Indenture dated as of June 8, 1999 by and among the Company,
                        Bank One Trust Company, as Trustee, and the Subsidiary
                        Guarantors named therein, for the Company's 10 3/4% Senior
                        Subordinated Notes due 2009 (previously filed with the SEC
                        as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on
                        Form S-4 (File No. 333-83567) and incorporated herein by
                        reference).

         4.6            Form of the Company's 10 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due
                        2009 issued on June 8, 1999 in the aggregate principal
                        amount of $200,000,000 (previously filed with the SEC as an
                        Exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4
                        (File No. 333-83567) and incorporated herein by reference).

         4.7            Registration Rights Agreement dated as of June 8, 1999 by
                        and among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors named
                        therein and the Placement Agents named therein (previously
                        filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's
                        Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-83567) and
                        incorporated herein by reference).

         4.8            Form of Exchange Agent Agreement between the Company and
                        Bank One Trust Company, NA. (previously filed with the SEC
                        as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on
                        Form S-4 (File No. 333-83567) and incorporated herein by
                        reference).
</TABLE>

                                      104
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
       EXHIBIT
       NUMBER                                   DESCRIPTION
- ---------------------                           -----------
<S>                     <C>
         4.10           Form of First Preferred Ship Mortgages dated as of June 5,
                        1996 executed in favor of First National Bank of Commerce,
                        as Trustee, by each of Alton Gaming Company (relating to
                        Argosy I, Alton Belle Casino II and Alton Landing), Catfish
                        Queen Partnership in Commendam (relating to Argosy III), The
                        Missouri Gaming Company (relating to Argosy IV), Iowa Gaming
                        Company (relating to Argosy V) and the Company (relating to
                        Spirit of America) (previously filed with the SEC as an
                        Exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4
                        (File No. 333-7299) and incorporated herein by reference).

         4.11           Form of Deed of Trust, Assignment of Leases and Rents and
                        Security Agreement dated as of June 5, 1996 by and among the
                        Company, First National Bank of Commerce, as Trustee, and
                        Chicago Title Insurance Company (previously filed with the
                        SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on
                        Form S-4 (File No. 333-7299) and incorporated herein by
                        reference).

         4.12           Form of Mortgage of Jazz Enterprises, Inc., and Catfish
                        Queen Partnership in Commendam to Secure Present and Future
                        Indebtedness, Assignment of Leases and Rents and Security
                        Agreement dated as of June 5, 1996 execute in favor of First
                        National Bank of Commerce, as Trustee (previously filed with
                        the SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration
                        Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-7299) and incorporated
                        herein by reference).

         4.13           Form of Securities Purchase Agreement dated May 29, 1998
                        between the Company and the Buyers named therein (previously
                        filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q
                        for the quarter ended June 30, 1998 and incorporated herein
                        by reference).

         4.14           Form of Certificate of Designations, Preferences, and Rights
                        of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock of Argosy Gaming
                        Company (previously filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the
                        Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998 and
                        incorporated herein by reference).

         4.15           Form of Warrant to Purchase Common Stock (previously filed
                        with the SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for
                        the quarter ended June 30, 1998 and incorporated herein by
                        reference).

         4.16           Form of Registration Rights Agreement dated May 29, 1998
                        between the Company and the Buyers named therein (previously
                        filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q
                        for the quarter ended June 30, 1998 and incorporated herein
                        by reference).

         9.1            Pratt Voting Trust Agreement dated as of May 5, 1992 by and
                        between John Biggs Pratt, Sr. and Stephanie Pratt
                        (previously filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the
                        Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No.
                        33-55878) and incorporated herein by reference).

        10.1            Bond and Easement Agreement dated as of April 18, 1991 by
                        and between the Alton Riverboat Gambling Partnership and the
                        City of Alton, Illinois (previously filed with the SEC as an
                        Exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1
                        (File No. 33-55878) and incorporated herein by reference).

        10.2            Stock Option Plan (previously filed with the SEC as an
                        Exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1
                        (File No. 33-55878) and incorporated herein by reference).

        10.3            Form of Indemnification Agreement (previously filed with the
                        SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on
                        Form S-1 (File No. 33-55878) and incorporated herein by
                        reference).
</TABLE>

                                      105
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
       EXHIBIT
       NUMBER                                   DESCRIPTION
- ---------------------                           -----------
<S>                     <C>
        10.4            Director Option Plan (previously filed with the SEC as an
                        Exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1
                        (File No. 33-55878) and incorporated herein by reference).

        10.5            Employment Agreement between the Company and Virginia M.
                        McDowell (previously filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the
                        Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 and
                        incorporated herein by reference).

        10.6            Letter Agreement dated as of January 28, 1993 by and between
                        L. Thomas Lakin and the Alton Riverboat Gambling Partnership
                        (previously filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the
                        Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No.
                        33-55878) and incorporated herein by reference).

        10.7            Letter Agreement dated March 29, 1995 by and between Floyd
                        C. Warmann and the Company (previously filed with the SEC as
                        an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
                        December 31, 1994 dated March 31, 1995 and incorporated
                        herein by reference).

        10.8            Agreement to Purchase Stock dated January 30, 1995 by and
                        among the Company, Jazz Enterprises, Inc. and the signatory
                        shareholders of Jazz Enterprises, Inc. (previously filed
                        with the SEC as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for
                        the year ended December 31, 1994 and incorporated herein by
                        reference).

        10.9            Contract dated June 7, 1993 by and among the City of
                        Riverside, Missouri, The Missouri Gaming Company and the
                        Company, together with amendments thereto (previously filed
                        with the SEC as an Exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K dated
                        March 10, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference).

        10.10           Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership
                        dated February 21, 1996 of Indiana Gaming Company, L.P.
                        (previously filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the
                        Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995 and
                        incorporated herein by reference).

        10.11           Management Agreement dated April 11, 1994 by and between
                        Indiana Gaming Company L.P. and The Indiana Gaming Company
                        as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Management Agreement dated
                        February 21, 1996 (previously filed with the SEC as an
                        Exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
                        December 31, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference).

        10.12           Affirmation of Limited Parent Guaranty of Argosy Gaming
                        Company in favor of the partners of Indiana Gaming Company,
                        L.P. dated February 21, 1996 (previously filed with the SEC
                        as an Exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
                        December 31, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference).

        10.13           Riverboat Gaming Development Agreement between the City of
                        Lawrenceburg, Indiana and Indiana Gaming Company L.P. dated
                        as of April 13, 1994 as amended by Amendment Number One to
                        Riverboat Development Agreement between the City of
                        Lawrenceburg, Indiana and Indiana Gaming Company L.P. dated
                        as of December 28, 1995 (previously filed with the SEC as an
                        Exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
                        December 31, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference).

        10.14           Guaranty of Development Agreement dated as of April 13, 1994
                        by the Company in favor of the City of Lawrenceburg
                        (previously filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the
                        Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995 and
                        incorporated herein by reference).
</TABLE>

                                      106
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
       EXHIBIT
       NUMBER                                   DESCRIPTION
- ---------------------                           -----------
<S>                     <C>
        10.15           Form of Surety Bond and Guaranty, dated December 17, 1996,
                        issued to the Indiana Gaming Commission, as obligee with
                        USF&G, as surety. (previously filed with the SEC as an
                        Exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended
                        December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference).

        10.16           Employment Agreement between the Company and James B. Perry
                        dated as of April 22, 1999 (previously filed with the SEC as
                        an Exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
                        S-4 (File No. 333-83567) and incorporated herein by
                        reference).

        10.17           Employment Agreement between the Company and James G.
                        Gulbrandsen. (previously filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to
                        the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997
                        and incorporated herein by reference).

        10.18           Credit Agreement dated as of June 8, 1999 among the Company,
                        Alton Gaming Company, Argosy of Louisiana, Inc., Catfish
                        Queen Partnership In Commendam, The Indiana Gaming Company,
                        Iowa Gaming Company, Jazz Enterprises, Inc. and The Missouri
                        Gaming Company, as Borrowers, the Lenders named therein and
                        Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Agent Bank
                        (previously filed with the SEC as an Exhibit to the
                        Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No.
                        333-83567) and incorporated herein by reference).

        10.19           Form of Separation Agreement

        13              Portions of the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders indicated
                        on the Cross Reference Sheet and Table of Contents.

        21              List of Subsidiaries

        23              Consent of Ernst & Young LLP

        24              Powers of Attorney of directors

        27              Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE>

- ------------------------

    (b) The following Reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Registrant with the
       Securities and Exchange Commission during the quarter ended December 31,
       1999:
       None

    (c) The Exhibits filed herewith, if any, are identified on the Exhibit index

                                      107
<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on the 10th day of March, 2000.

<TABLE>
<S>                                                    <C>  <C>
                                                       ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY

                                                       BY:              /S/ JAMES B. PERRY
                                                            -----------------------------------------
                                                              PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
</TABLE>

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities and on
the date indicated.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                        NAME                                       TITLE                    DATE
                        ----                                       -----                    ----
<C>                                                    <S>                             <C>
                 /s/ JAMES B. PERRY                    President and Chief Executive
     -------------------------------------------         Officer                       March 10, 2000
                   James B. Perry

                  /s/ DALE R. BLACK                    Vice President--Chief
     -------------------------------------------         Financial Officer (Principal  March 10, 2000
                    Dale R. Black                        Accounting Officer)

                /s/ EDWARD F. BRENNAN                  Director
     -------------------------------------------
                  Edward F. Brennan

               /s/ FELIX LANCE CALLIS                  Director
     -------------------------------------------
                 Felix Lance Callis

               /s/ WILLIAM F. CELLINI                  Director
     -------------------------------------------
                 William F. Cellini

               /s/ JIMMY F. GALLAGHER                  Director
     -------------------------------------------
                 Jimmy F. Gallagher

              /s/ JOHN BIGGS PRATT, SR.                Director
     -------------------------------------------
                John Biggs Pratt, Sr.

                 /s/ WILLIAM MCENERY                   Director
     -------------------------------------------
                   William McEnery
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<S>   <C>                                                    <C>                          <C>
*By:                    /s/ DALE R. BLACK
             --------------------------------------
                          Dale R. Black
                        ATTORNEY-IN-FACT
                         March 10, 2000
</TABLE>

                                      108
<PAGE>
                             ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY

           SCHEDULE I--CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                 CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                           DECEMBER 31, 1999 AND 1998

              (ALL DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                1999       1998
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
CURRENT ASSETS:
  Cash and cash equivalents.................................  $    531   $ 50,818
  Restricted cash in escrow.................................    25,244         --
  Income taxes receivable...................................       653        747
  Receivables...............................................     1,479        796
  Deferred income taxes.....................................    17,261        183
  Other current assets......................................     1,555      1,047
                                                              --------   --------
    Total current assets....................................    46,723     53,591
  Net property and equipment................................     1,040        644
  Investment in and advances to consolidated subsidiaries...   338,095    332,528
  Other assets..............................................     8,900     13,028
  Deferred taxes............................................        --      3,546
                                                              --------   --------
    TOTAL ASSETS............................................  $394,758   $403,337
                                                              ========   ========
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
  Accounts payable and accrued liabilities..................  $  7,917   $  7,134
  Current maturities of long-term debt......................    22,242         --
                                                              --------   --------
    Total current liabilities...............................    30,159      7,134
Long-term debt..............................................   303,800    350,000
Deferred income taxes.......................................     2,554         --
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, $.01 par value,
  10,000,000 shares authorized, 0 and 547 shares issued and
  outstanding at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively...        --      5,340

STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY:
Common stock, $.01 par; 60,000,000 shares authorized;
  28,325,106 and 25,830,313 shares issued and outstanding at
  December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively                         283        258
Capital in excess of par....................................    80,362     74,484
Accumulated deficit.........................................   (22,400)   (33,879)
                                                              --------   --------
                                                                58,245     40,863
                                                              --------   --------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY..................  $394,758   $403,337
                                                              ========   ========
</TABLE>

           See accompanying notes to condensed financial statements.

                                      109
<PAGE>
                             ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY

     SCHEDULE I--CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (CONTINUED)

            CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                        DECEMBER 31, 1999, 1998 AND 1997

                       (ALL DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
REVENUES
Management fees and other...................................  $  3,108   $ 1,988    $  5,795
COSTS AND EXPENSES
General and administrative..................................    15,144     9,984      23,630
                                                              --------   -------    --------
Loss from operations........................................   (12,036)   (7,996)    (17,835)
Net interest expense........................................   (32,203)  (38,356)    (32,145)
Equity in net income of consolidated subsidiaries...........    49,383    27,488       7,287
                                                              --------   -------    --------
Income (loss) before income taxes and extraordinary item....     5,144   (18,864)    (42,693)
Income tax benefit..........................................    31,282    25,425       2,480
                                                              --------   -------    --------
Net income (loss) before extraordinary item.................    36,426     6,561     (40,213)
Extraordinary loss on extinguishment of debt (net of income
  tax benefit of $13,500)...................................   (24,920)       --          --
                                                              --------   -------    --------
Net income (loss)...........................................    11,506     6,561     (40,213)
Preferred stock dividend and accretion......................       (27)     (820)         --
                                                              --------   -------    --------
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders.......  $ 11,479   $ 5,741    $(40,213)
                                                              ========   =======    ========
</TABLE>

           See accompanying notes to condensed financial statements.

                                      110
<PAGE>
                             ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY

     SCHEDULE I--CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (CONTINUED)

            CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                        DECEMBER 31, 1999, 1998 AND 1997

                       (ALL DOLLAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998       1997
                                                              --------   --------   ---------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
  Net income (loss).........................................  $ 11,506   $  6,561   $ (40,213)
  Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash
    provided by (used in) operating activities:
  Depreciation and amortization.............................     1,654      2,458       4,033
  Gain on sale of assets....................................      (203)        --          --
  Extraordinary item........................................    24,920         --          --
  Writedown of assets held for sale.........................        --         --       9,600
  Compensation expense recognized on issuance of stock......       113        239         175
  Deferred income taxes.....................................     2,522     (1,440)      6,454
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
    Other current assets....................................    (1,141)     1,808      11,254
    Accounts payable and accrued liabilities................       783     (1,677)     (1,714)
                                                              --------   --------   ---------
      Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities...    40,154      7,949     (10,411)
                                                              --------   --------   ---------
CASH FLOWS USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  Proceeds from sale of assets..............................       503         --          --
  Investment in and advances to subsidiaries................    (1,567)    17,969     (53,350)
  Restricted cash held by trustee...........................        --     12,431      57,201
  Purchased of property and equipment.......................      (382)       (58)     (2,084)
                                                              --------   --------   ---------
      Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities...    (1,446)    30,342       1,767
                                                              --------   --------   ---------
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
  Proceeds from credit facility.............................   161,800         --          --
  Repayment of credit facility..............................   (58,000)        --          --
  Proceeds from the issuance of long term stock.............   200,000         --          --
  Issuance of preferred stock...............................        --      7,365          --
  Cash held in escrow.......................................   (25,244)        --          --
  Repurchase of First Mortgage Notes........................  (241,043)        --          --
  Redemption of convertible debentures......................  (117,280)        --          --
  Increase in deferred finance costs........................    (8,736)        --         (85)
  Other.....................................................      (492)      (625)         --
                                                              --------   --------   ---------
      Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities...   (88,995)     6,740         (85)
                                                              --------   --------   ---------
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents........   (50,287)    45,031      (8,729)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year................    50,818      5,787      14,516
                                                              --------   --------   ---------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year......................  $    531   $ 50,818   $   5,787
                                                              ========   ========   =========
</TABLE>

           See accompanying notes to condensed financial statements.

                                      111
<PAGE>
                             ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY

     SCHEDULE I--CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (CONTINUED)

              NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                        DECEMBER 31, 1999, 1998 AND 1997

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

    The accompanying condensed financial information of Argosy Gaming Company
("Argosy") includes the accounts of Argosy, and on an equity basis, the
subsidiaries which it controls. The accompanying condensed financial information
should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statments of
Argosy.

                                      112
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.19
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.19
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.19

                                     FORM OF
                              SEPARATION AGREEMENT



     This Separation Agreement is made and entered into this ____ day of ______,
2000 (this "Agreement") by and between ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY, a Delaware
corporation (the "Company") and [Employee], an individual residing in the State
of [State], (the "Employee");


                                    RECITALS:

     The Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors believes it
is in the best interest of the Company to enter into this Agreement with the
Employee.

     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the covenants and
agreements herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:

     1.   EMPLOYMENT. The Company agrees that the Employee shall be employed by
the Company during the term of this Agreement initially in the capacity of [Job
Title], or in such other capacity as determined by the Company's Chief Executive
Officer or Board of Directors. The Employee shall have such duties and
responsibilities as are assigned to the Employee by the Chief Executive Officer
or Board of Directors of the Company. The Employee acknowledges and agrees that
the Employee's duties and responsibilities hereunder may include serving as an
officer of the Company's subsidiaries and affiliates without any additional
compensation therefor. The Employee hereby accepts employment from the Company
upon the terms and conditions herein set forth and agrees to devote his/her best
efforts and energies to the business of the Company.

     2.   TERM. The term of this agreement shall begin on [Date] and continue
unless terminated as hereinafter provided in Sections 5 and 6 hereof.

     3.   COMPENSATION.

          (a)  BASE SALARY. During the term of this Agreement the Company shall
pay to Employee a Base Salary equal to [Salary] per annum. The Company shall pay
the Base Salary to Employee in accordance with the usual and customary payroll
procedures of the Company. This Base Salary may be adjusted upward at any time
without altering the terms of this Agreement.

          (b)  EXECUTIVE AND MANAGEMENT OPTIONS. You shall be eligible to
participate in any and all stock option programs created by the Stock Option
Committee of the Board of Directors; provided, however, the Stock Option
Committee has sole and

<PAGE>

absolute discretion in granting stock options. The terms and conditions of the
stock option program and the stock option grant will be more fully set forth in
any Stock Option Agreements and stock grant certificates adopted and delivered
respectively.

          (c)  FRINGE BENEFITS. The Employee shall be entitled to participate in
all insurance and other fringe benefit programs of the Company as are accorded
other employees of the Company holding similar positions as the Employee. The
employee shall be (i) entitled to participate in the company's health plan
effective the first day of employment if a new employee, and (ii) entitled to
coverage or reimbursement for any family medical and dental costs not covered by
the Company's plans, subject to the Company's Supplemental Medical and Dental
Reimbursement Plan for Executives and regulatory guidelines.

          (d)  SPECIAL ALLOWANCES. The Company agrees to pay a special allowance
of $500 per month to reimburse the Employee for any initiation fees, monthly
dues and any assessments in social clubs, fees associated with executive
services such as financial planning, as well as to defray the costs and expenses
of his/her automobile.

          (e)  COMPLIMENTARY PRIVILEGES. The Employee shall be entitled to an
employee discount of not less than 25% at Company retail establishments. The
Employee and his/her immediate family shall be entitled to complimentary
privileges in the Company restaurants and eating establishments.

          (f)  REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES. The Employee shall be reimbursed for
all items of travel and entertainment and miscellaneous expenses reasonably
incurred by him/her on behalf of the Company. Reimbursement for such expenses
will be pursuant to, and limited by, the Company's policies with respect to
reimbursing business expenses of employees of the Company holding similar
positions as the Employee and will require proper documentation.

          (g)  ENTIRE COMPENSATION. The compensation and benefits provided for
in this Agreement are in full payment of the services to be rendered by the
Employee to the Company.

     4.   CHANGE OF CONTROL. In the event that there occurs a Change of Control
(as hereinafter defined) of the Company, the Employee shall, notwithstanding any
actions taken by the Company or its successor after the Change of Control, be
entitled to an amount equivalent to three years of Base Salary.

     Such amount shall be paid only if the Employee's employment is (i)
terminated due to the Change of Control, or terminated within one (1) year after
the Change of Control, or (ii) if the Employee is offered and declines a
position with lesser responsibility, or lesser salary as a result of the Change
of Control, or is offered and

<PAGE>

declines a position with lesser responsibility, or lesser salary within one (1)
year after the Change of Control.

     In the event the Employee's employment is terminated after the public
announcement of a Change of Control but prior to the consummation of a Change of
Control for any reason other than those set forth in Sections 5, 6(a), (b), (d)
or (e), then the Employee shall be entitled to an amount equivalent to three
years of Base Salary.

     For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall have the meaning
as set forth in the Company's Indenture dated July 6, 1994 with Bank One
(Springfield, Illinois) for its 12% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2001.

     5.   DEATH OR TOTAL DISABILITY OF EMPLOYEE.

          (a)  DEATH. In the event of the death of the Employee during the term
of this Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate effective as of the date of
the Employee's death and the Company shall have no further obligations or
liability hereunder, except the Company shall pay to the Employee's estate the
portion, if any, of the (i) Employee's Base Salary for the period up to the
Employee's date of death which remains unpaid; and (ii) amounts payable pursuant
to any employee benefits plans in which the Employee was a participant prior to
his/her death.

          (b)  DISABILITY. In the event the Employee suffers a Disability (as
hereinafter defined) during the term of this Agreement, the Company shall have
the right to terminate the Employee's employment hereunder by giving the
Employee ten (10) days written notice thereof, and upon expiration of such ten
(10) day period, the Company shall not have any further obligations or liability
under this Agreement, except the Company shall pay to Employee the portion, if
any, of: (i) the Employee's Base Salary for the period to the date of
termination which remains unpaid; and (ii) any amounts payable pursuant to any
employee benefit plans in which the Employee was a participant prior to the date
of his termination.

     The term "Disability", when used herein, shall mean when the Employee
qualifies for a benefit under the Company's long term disability plan or if the
Company does not have a long term disability plan, it shall mean a mental or
physical condition which, in the reasonable opinion of the Company's designated
medical doctor, renders the Employee unable or incompetent to carry out the job
responsibilities he/she held or tasks to which he/she was assigned at the time
the disability was incurred for a period of 60 consecutive days or 60 days in
any 12 consecutive month period.

     6.   TERMINATION. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to
the contrary, the Employee's employment under this Agreement may be terminated
by the Company upon written notice to Employee for any of the following reasons:

<PAGE>

          (a)  If the Employee is denied a gaming license by any state gaming
board or any other gaming authority having jurisdiction over the operations of
the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates ("Gaming Body"), or if the
Employee's license issued by any Gaming Body is suspended, revoked, sanctioned
or reprimanded for any period of time or for any conduct;

          (b)  If the Employee commits an offense involving moral turpitude
under Federal, State or local laws or ordinances or conducts himself/herself
publicly or privately in any manner which causes him/her to be held in public
ridicule or scorn, or causes public scandal or uses liquors, narcotics or drugs
to such an extent as will have visible detrimental effect on the Company;

          (c)  If the Employee fails to perform his/her job responsibilities in
a manner satisfactory to the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors;

          (d)  If the Employee knowingly violates any of the internal control
procedures and/or company policies of the Company; or, knowingly violates any
statute, rule or regulation of any Gaming Body, the United States Coast Guard,
or any other governmental body having jurisdiction over the business activities
of the Company; and;

          (e)  If the Employee breaches any term or condition of this agreement.

     In the event that the Company shall terminate the Employee's employment
pursuant to this Section 6, the Company shall not have any further obligations
or liabilities under this Agreement, except the Company shall (a) pay to the
Employee his/her Base Salary up to the 30th day following the date of the
Employee's termination hereunder or if the termination is pursuant to Section
6(c) hereof or pursuant to a job elimination with results in a discontinuation
of employment with the Company, then the Company shall pay to Employee his/her
Base Salary for three (3) months following the date of the Employee's
termination; and (b) any amounts or benefits payable pursuant to any employee
benefit plan in which the Employee was a participant prior to the date of
his/her termination, subject, however, to the terms and provisions of any such
employee benefit plan.

     Without limiting the foregoing, the Employee shall surrender all vehicles,
credit cards, uniforms, cellular telephones, pagers and other Company property
to the Company prior to any payment to the Employee hereunder.

     Following any notice of termination of employment hereunder, Employee shall
fully cooperate with the Company in all matters relating to the winding up of
his/her pending work on behalf of the Company and the orderly transfer of such
work to the other professional employees of the Company. On or after the giving
of notice of termination hereunder and during any applicable notice period, the
Company shall be

<PAGE>

entitled to such full-time or part-time services of Employee as the Company may
reasonably require.

     7.   DISCOVERIES. The Employee will promptly disclose in writing to the
Company each improvement, discovery, idea, concept and invention relating to the
business of the Company, made or conceived by the Employee either alone or in
conjunction with others while employed by the Company hereunder or within six
(6) months after the termination of such employment. This provision shall not
apply to an invention for which no equipment, supplies, facility or trade secret
information of the Company was used and which was developed entirely on the
Employee's own time, and (a) which does not relate (i) to the business of the
Company or (ii) to the Company's actual or demonstrably anticipated research or
development, or (b) which does not result from any work performed by the
Employee for the Company. The Employee will not disclose any such improvement,
discovery, idea, concept or invention to any person except the Company. Each
such improvement, discovery, idea, concept or invention shall be the sole and
exclusive property of, and is hereby assigned to, the Company, and at the
request of the Company, the Employee will assist and cooperate with the Company
and any person or persons (at the Company's or such other person's expense) from
time to time designated by the Company to obtain for the Company the grant of
any letters patent in the United States and/or such other country or countries
as may be designated by the Company, covering any such improvement, discovery,
idea, concept or invention and will in connection therewith execute such
applications, statements, assignments or other documents, furnish such
information and data and take all such other action (including, without
limitation, the giving of testimony) as the Company may from time to time
reasonably request.

     8.   NON-DISCLOSURE AND NON-COMPETITION.

          (a)  The Employee recognizes and acknowledges that he/she will have
access to certain confidential information of the Company, including but not
limited to, trade secrets, customer lists, sales records, future casino
development plans and other proprietary commercial information, and that such
information constitutes valuable, special and unique property of the Company.
The Employee agrees that he/she will not, for any reason or purpose whatsoever,
during or after the term of his/her employment, disclose any of such
confidential information to any party without express authorization of the
Company, except as necessary in the ordinary course of performing his/her duties
hereunder.

          (b)  The Employee agrees with the Company that during the term of
his/her employment with the Company (or any affiliate or subsidiary of the
Company) and for a period of one (1) year following the termination of
his/her employment with the Company (or any affiliate or subsidiary of the
Company), he/she will not, without prior written consent of the Company,
engage directly or indirectly in any business (either financially or as a
shareholder, employee, officer, partner, independent contractor or


<PAGE>

owner, or in any other capacity calling for the rendition of personal service
or acts of management, operation or control) which owns, operates or manages
casinos, bingo parlors or other gaming facilities within the Territory (as
hereinafter defined); provided, however, that Employee may own up to three
percent (3%) of any class of securities of a corporation engaged in such a
competitive business if such securities are listed on a national securities
exchange or registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

          (c)  The Employee further agrees that for a period of ninety (90) days
following the termination of his/her employment with the Company (or any
affiliate or subsidiary of the Company), he/she will not, without prior written
consent of the Company, recruit any other Company employees away from the
Company.

          (d)  The term "Territory" as used herein shall mean a 150 mile radius
of each casino, bingo parlor or gaming facility being operated or managed by the
Company or for which the Company has either received a local community
endorsement or filed for a gaming license as of the date of termination.

          (e)  The Employee acknowledges that his/her compliance with the
agreements in paragraphs 8(a) and 8(b) hereof is necessary to protect the good
will and other proprietary interests of the Company and that he/she is one of
the principal executives of the Company and conversant with its affairs, its
trade secrets, its customers and other proprietary information. The Employee
acknowledges that a breach of his/her agreements in paragraphs 8(a) and 8(b)
hereof will result in irreparable and continuing damage to the Company and the
business of the Company, for which there will be no adequate remedy at law; and
agrees that in the event of any breach of the aforesaid agreements in paragraphs
8(a) and 8(b), the Company and its successors and assigns shall be entitled to
injunctive relief of 50% of the Employee's annual salary and to such other and
further relief as may be proper. The Employee further agrees that in the event
of any breach of the agreement in paragraph 8(c), the Company and its successors
and assigns shall be entitled to injunctive relief of 100% of the Employee's
annual salary and to such other and further relief as may be proper.

     9.   SUPERSEDES OTHER AGREEMENTS. This Agreement supersedes and is in lieu
of any and all other employee arrangements between the Employee and the Company
or any of their respective subsidiary and affiliated companies.

     10.  AMENDMENTS. Any amendment to this Agreement, including any extensions
or renewal of the term of employment of Employee, shall be made in writing and
signed by the parties hereto.

     11.  ENFORCEABILITY. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held
invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, then such provision shall be
deemed to be modified or restricted to the extent and in the manner necessary to
render the same valid and enforceable, or shall be deemed excised from the
Agreement as the case may require,

<PAGE>

and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced to the maximum extent
permitted by law, as if such provision had been originally incorporated herein
as so modified or restricted, or as if such provision had not been originally
incorporated herein, as the case may be.

     12.  GOVERNING LAW. The validity and effect of this Agreement shall be
governed exclusively by the laws of the State of Illinois, excluding the
"conflicts of laws" rules of that state.

     13.  ASSIGNMENT.

          (a)  The rights and obligations of the Company under this Agreement
shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the successors and
assigns of the Company, subject to the provisions set forth in Section 4 hereof.

          (b)  This Agreement and the obligations created hereunder may not be
assigned by the Employee.

     14.  ATTORNEYS' FEES. In the event any legal action to enforce the terms
and conditions of this Agreement is commenced, reasonable attorneys' fees, court
costs and all reasonable costs of litigation shall be awarded to the prevailing
party.

     15.  NOTICES. All notices required or permitted to be given hereunder shall
be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given when personally delivered
or mailed, by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, addressed
to the intended recipient as follows:

     IF TO THE EMPLOYEE:

          [Address]

     IF TO THE COMPANY:

          Argosy Gaming Company
          219 Piasa Street
          Alton, IL  62002
          ATTN:  Legal Department

     Any party may from time to time change its address for the purposes of
notices to that party by a similar notice specifying a new address, but no such
change shall be deemed to have been given until it is actually received by the
party sought to be charged with the contents.

<PAGE>

     16.  WAIVER. No claim or right arising out of a breach or default under
this Agreement can be discharged in whole or in part by a waiver of that claim
or right unless the waiver is supported by consideration and is in writing and
executed by the aggrieved party hereto or its or his/her duly authorized agent.
A waiver by any party hereto of a breach or default by the other party hereto of
any provision of this Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver of any prior or
subsequent compliance therewith, and such provision shall remain in full force
and effect.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed by the Company, by a
duly authorized officer, and by the Employee on the date first above written.

                                        ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY

                                        By:
                                           -------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                              ----------------------------


                                        EMPLOYEE

                                        ----------------------------------
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 13
<TEXT>

<PAGE>









- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  ANNUAL REPORT

                                      1999




==============================================================================










                                       1


<PAGE>


                              ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY
                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


OVERVIEW

     The Company, through its subsidiaries or joint ventures, owns and
operates the Alton Belle Casino, in Alton, Illinois; the Argosy Casino in
Riverside, Missouri; the Argosy Casino in Baton Rouge, Louisiana; the Belle
of Sioux City Casino in Sioux City, Iowa; and the Argosy Casino and Hotel in
Lawrenceburg, Indiana. The results of the Company's Lawrenceburg casino
reflect a phased opening strategy. The Lawrenceburg casino opened at a
temporary site on December 10, 1996, moved to and opened the permanent
pavilion on December 10, 1997 and became fully operational with the opening
of its hotel in May 1998.

     The Company's results of operations for the year ended December 31, 1999
reflect increases in both revenues and operating income at all of its casino
properties. This improvement is primarily attributable to the successful
execution of the Company's operating strategy, which has been developed with
the goal to position the Company as the premier riverboat casino operator.
This strategy includes capitalizing on management's significant experience
and expertise in gaming industry operations, continued emphasis on database
marketing techniques, and prudently investing in gaming and gaming-related
assets for its properties. In addition, 1999 revenues were favorably impacted
by regulatory changes in three of its markets; dockside gaming in Alton,
beginning June 26, the July 1 elimination of video poker at many non-casino
sites in Baton Rouge, and the advent of open boarding in Kansas City on
November 15. The Company expects that these regulatory changes will continue
to have positive year over year impact through the first half of 2000. In
addition, the results of the Company's Baton Rouge casino were favorably
impacted by an elimination of an additional head tax of $2.50 per passenger
which ceased on July 29, 1999 when the Company began construction of a $20
million, 300 room convention hotel at its Baton Rouge property.

     The Company's ability to recover the carrying value of its long-lived
assets in Baton Rouge is dependent on several factors, including maintaining
the current level of operating results and the competitive environment. If
the Company does not achieve anticipated operating results or experiences
deterioration in its operating results or the competitive environment,
management's evaluation of recoverability could change and the Company could
record an impairment loss amounting to a substantial portion of its $113
million Baton Rouge investment.

     During December 1999, the Company replaced its landing facility at its
Alton property which had a net book value of $7.3 million. The Company is
currently evaluating the future use of these assets which may include
utilization in the Company's other operations or the sale of the assets. If
these assets are sold, a loss could be recorded for a substantial portion of
the $7.3 million net book value.

     During 1999, the Company recorded an extraordinary loss of $24.9 million
(net of a $13.5 million tax benefit) related to the early extinguishment of
debt. Also, during 1999, the Company recognized a $10.0 million tax benefit
representing prior federal income tax net operating losses that are expected
to be utilized in 2000.

                                       2

<PAGE>

                              ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY
                MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                       CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
                                 (In Thousands)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                    -----------------------------------------------------
                                                         1999              1998               1997
                                                    ----------------  ----------------  -----------------
<S>                                                 <C>               <C>               <C>
CASINO REVENUES
Alton Belle Casino                                         $ 84,664          $ 67,798           $ 61,877
Argosy Casino - Riverside                                    84,892            71,955             61,750
Argosy Casino - Baton Rouge                                  53,262            46,828             47,628
Belle of Sioux City Casino                                   28,013            22,572             20,667
Argosy Casino - Lawrenceburg                                308,316           264,352            127,908
                                                          ---------         ---------          ---------
     Total                                                $ 559,147         $ 473,505          $ 319,830
                                                          =========         =========          =========
NET REVENUES
Alton Belle Casino                                        $  88,079         $  72,064          $  67,208
Argosy Casino - Riverside                                    89,813            76,960             66,548
Argosy Casino - Baton Rouge                                  55,110            49,054             50,436
Belle of Sioux City Casino                                   28,889            23,526             21,672
Argosy Casino - Lawrenceburg                                332,235           284,721            137,024
Other                                                           428               343              1,195
                                                          ---------         ---------          ---------
     Total                                                $ 594,554         $ 506,668          $ 344,083
                                                          =========         =========          =========

INCOME (LOSS) FROM OPERATIONS(1)
Alton Belle Casino                                        $  23,115         $  13,850          $   7,489
Argosy Casino - Riverside                                    12,564             5,369              2,481
Argosy Casino - Baton Rouge                                   1,129            (3,381)            (4,146)
Belle of Sioux City Casino                                    4,570             1,919                848
Argosy Casino - Lawrenceburg                                103,295            87,907             25,625
Jazz Enterprises, Inc. (4)                                   (5,118)           (6,312)            (4,655)
Corporate (5)                                               (15,113)           (9,990)           (11,432)
Other                                                        (1,417)           (1,551)             1,701
                                                          ---------         ---------          ---------
    Total                                                 $ 123,025         $  87,811          $  17,911
                                                          =========         =========          =========

EBITDA(1)(2)
Alton Belle Casino                                        $  27,388         $  17,835          $  11,944
Argosy Casino - Riverside                                    18,252            11,293              8,428
Argosy Casino - Baton Rouge                                   6,348             1,891              1,322
Belle of Sioux City Casino                                    5,838             3,016              1,861
Argosy Casino - Lawrenceburg                                123,083           105,674             38,471
Lawrenceburg financial advisory fee (3)                      (6,154)           (5,200)            (1,924)
Jazz Enterprises, Inc. (4)                                   (2,417)           (3,633)            (2,301)
Corporate (5)                                               (15,082)           (9,436)            (9,324)
Other                                                          (173)             (193)             2,726
                                                          ---------         ---------          ---------
     Total                                                $ 157,083         $ 121,247          $  51,203
                                                          =========         =========          =========
</TABLE>


                                       3

<PAGE>

                              ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY
                MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                       CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



(1)  Income from operations and EBITDA are presented before consideration of any
     management fees paid to the Company and in the case of the Belle of Sioux
     City and the Argosy Casino Lawrenceburg before the 30% and 42.5% minority
     interests, respectively.

(2)  "EBITDA" is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
     amortization and is presented before any management fees paid to Argosy.
     EBITDA should not be construed as an alternative to operating income, or
     net income (as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
     principles) as an indicator of the Company's operating performance, or as
     an alternative to cash flows generated by operating, investing and
     financing activities (as an indicator of cash flow or a measure of
     liquidity). EBITDA is presented solely as a supplemental disclosure because
     management believes that it is a widely used measure of operating
     performance in the gaming industry and for companies with a significant
     amount of depreciation and amortization. EBITDA may not be comparable to
     similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The Company has
     other significant uses of cash flows, including debt service and capital
     expenditures, which are not reflected in EBITDA.

(3)  The Lawrenceburg partnership pays a financial advisory fee equal to 5.0% of
     its EBITDA to a minority partner.

(4)  Jazz Enterprises, Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary that owns and operates
     the Catfish Town real estate development adjacent to the Company's Baton
     Rouge casino.

(5)  Excludes severance expenses of $1,750 and a loss of $9,600 in connection
     with a writedown of assets held for sale for the year ended December 31,
     1997.


                                       4

<PAGE>

                              ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY
                MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                       CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998

         CASINO--Casino revenues for the year ended December 31, 1999,
increased by 18.1% to $559.1 million from $473.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 1998, due in part to a $44.0 million increase in casino revenues
at the Lawrenceburg casino, which generated total casino revenues of $308.3
million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The Company's other properties
reported an aggregate 19.9% increase in casino revenues from $209.2 to $250.8
million. This improvement is primarily attributable to the regulatory changes
in Illinois, Louisiana and Missouri and to the continued implementation of
the Company's operating and marketing strategies. Specifically, Alton casino
revenues increased from $67.8 to $84.7 million due in part to dockside gaming
effective June 1999; Riverside casino revenues increased from $72.0 to $84.9
million; Sioux City casino revenues increased from $22.6 to $28.0 million and
Baton Rouge casino revenues increased from $46.8 to $53.2 million.

         Casino expenses increased 13.0% to $250.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 1999, from $221.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1998.
This increase is primarily due to an increase of $17.9 million in gaming
taxes as a result of the overall increase in casino revenues. Baton Rouge
casino expense is net of a $1.6 million decrease in admission taxes due to
the elimination of an additional head tax, which commenced when construction
began on the Baton Rouge hotel in July 1999.

         ADMISSIONS--Admissions revenues (net of complimentary admissions)
were $7.2 million for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998.

         FOOD, BEVERAGE, AND OTHER--Food, beverage and other revenues
increased from $51.1 million to $58.0 million for the year ended December 31,
1999. This increase is attributable to the restaurants and the hotel at the
Lawrenceburg property being open for the entire year in 1999. Food, beverage
and other net profit improved $6.0 million to $16.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 1999. Alton, Riverside and Baton Rouge each reported
relatively the same food and beverage revenues but decreases in food and
beverage expenses. Alton's decrease was due to the closing of one of its
restaurants during the entire year ended December 31, 1999 in conjunction
with a major renovation. Riverside's and Baton Rouge's decreases were
primarily due to the decreased use of food and beverage as promotional items.

         The Lawrenceburg hotel contributed $4.2 million in net revenues and
$1.9 million of operating profit. The hotel occupancy percentage was 83.2%
and the average daily room rate, including promotional allowances, was $84.
In 1998, the hotel occupancy percentage was 73.5% and the average daily room
rate, including promotional allowances, was $79 during the months the hotel
was open.

     OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES--Other operating expenses increased from $26.6
million in 1998 to $27.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1999.

         SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE--Selling, general and
administrative expenses increased 21.7% to $117.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 1999, due primarily to an increase at Lawrenceburg of $3.9
million related to expanded marketing and $4.5 million in additional
development payments to the city due to the increased gaming revenues.
Corporate expenses increased due to expenses of $1.8 million related to a
severance and settlement arrangement and $3.1 million related to incentive
compensation. Marketing expenses increased $4.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 1999 but remained relatively flat, at approximately 7%, as a
percentage of casino revenues.

         DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION--Depreciation and amortization
increased slightly to $34.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1999,
from $33.4 million in 1998.

                          INTEREST EXPENSE--Net interest expense decreased
$8.2 million to $45.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The
decrease in interest expense is primarily attributable to the refinancing
completed during 1999 and a decrease of interest to a minority partner of
$3.0 million. This decrease, however, was offset by a decrease in capitalized
interest of $1.0 million.

                                       5

<PAGE>

                              ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY
                MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                       CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


     NET INCOME BEFORE EXTRAORDINARY ITEM - The Company recorded net income
before extraordinary item of $36.4 million for the year ended December 31,
1999 compared to net income before extraordinary item of $6.6 million in 1998
due primarily to the factors discussed above.

     EXTRAORDINARY LOSS - The Company recorded an extraordinary loss of $24.9
million for the year ended December 31, 1999 related to the early
extinguishment of debt in conjunction with a refinancing. This extraordinary
loss is net of a $13.5 million tax benefit.

     INCOME TAX EXPENSE - The Company recorded income tax expense of $5.9
million for the year ended December 31, 1999 compared to income tax expense
of $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1998. The Company's effective
tax rate has been impacted favorably in 1999 and 1998 due to the utilization
of net operating loss carryforwards. Income tax expense was offset by the
reversal of a $10.0 million valuation allowance related to prior federal
income tax net operating losses that are expected to be utilized in 2000. The
Company expects its effective tax rate to be approximately 39% in the future.

     NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS--The Company reported net
income attributable to common stockholders of $11.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 1999 compared to $5.7 million for the year ended December
31, 1998, due primarily to the factors discussed above.


                                       6

<PAGE>

                              ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY
                MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                       CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997

     CASINO--Casino revenues for the year ended December 31, 1998, increased
by 48.1% to $473.5 million from $319.8 million for the year ended December
31, 1997, due primarily to a $136.4 million increase in casino revenues at
the Lawrenceburg casino, which generated total casino revenues of $264.4
million for the year ended December 31, 1998. The Company's other properties
reported an aggregate 9.0% increase in casino revenues from $191.9 to $209.2
million. Specifically, Alton casino revenues increased from $61.9 to $67.8
million; Riverside casino revenues increased from $61.8 to $72.0 million;
Sioux City casino revenues increased from $20.7 to $22.6 million, offset by a
decrease in Baton Rouge casino revenues from $47.6 to $46.8 million.

     Casino expenses increased 35.3% to $221.7 million for the year ended
December 31, 1998, from $163.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1997.
This is primarily due to a $52.2 million increase in Lawrenceburg casino
expenses associated with the overall increase in Lawrenceburg casino
revenues. Casino expenses increased $4.6 million at Riverside in connection
with the increase in casino revenues. Alton casino expenses decreased
slightly while casino revenues increased 10%. This decrease in casino
expenses in Alton is attributable to improved operating efficiencies and the
implementation of cost reduction programs.

     ADMISSIONS--Admissions revenues (net of complimentary admissions)
increased from $4.6 million in 1997 to $7.2 million in 1998 due to an
increased number of customers at the Lawrenceburg casino.

     FOOD, BEVERAGE, AND OTHER--Food, beverage and other revenues increased
from $34.8 million to $51.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1998, due
to the expanded food and beverage facilities in Lawrenceburg. Food, beverage
and other net profit improved $5.6 million to $10.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 1998, due primarily to this increase in sales.

     The Lawrenceburg hotel, which opened in May 1998, contributed $2.5
million in net revenues and $0.7 million of operating profit. The hotel
occupancy percentage was 73.5% and the average daily room rate including
promotional allowances, was $79.

     OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES--Other operating expenses decreased from $28.7
million to $26.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1998, due primarily
to a decrease at Lawrenceburg of $2.3 million related to renting the
temporary vessel in 1997.

     SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE--Selling, general and administrative
expenses increased 34.0% to $96.6 million for the year ended December 31,
1998, due primarily to an increase of $20.0 million at Lawrenceburg related
to expanded marketing and operating costs of the larger facility, an increase
of $2.3 million at Riverside due to expanded marketing efforts and a $1.4
million charge related to a writeoff of deferred lease costs at the Catfish
Town real estate project in Baton Rouge. The increase in selling, general and
administrative expenses was offset by a $1.5 million decrease at Baton Rouge
related primarily to insurance costs.

     DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION--Depreciation and amortization increased
slightly to $33.4 million for the year ended December 31, 1998, from $33.3
million in 1997.

     INTEREST EXPENSE--Net interest expense increased $12.7 million to $53.9
million for the year ended December 31, 1998. The increase in interest
expense is primarily attributable to a decrease of $7.3 million in the amount
of capitalized interest due to the completion of the final phase of the
Lawrenceburg project in June 1998, a weighted average increase of $11.0
million in the balance of partner loans related to the Lawrenceburg casino,
and an equipment loan at the Indiana Partnership which was outstanding for
the entire year of 1998.

     NET INCOME (LOSS) ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS--The Company
reported net income attributable to common stockholders of $5.7 million for
the year ended December 31, 1998 as opposed to a net loss of $40.2 million
for the year ended December 31, 1997, due primarily to the factors discussed
above. In addition, in 1998, the Company recorded $0.8 million in preferred
dividends and accretion related to the sale of Preferred Stock and Warrants
in June 1998. In 1997, the Company recorded pretax charges of $9.6 million
relating to the write-down of assets held for sale and approximately $1.8
million in severance expenses. Due to its net operating loss position, the
Company's effective tax rate for 1998 was 3.4%.


                                       7

<PAGE>

                              ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY
                MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                       CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
                                   (continued)


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     During 1999, the Company generated cash flows from operating activities
of $126.7 million compared to $81.7 million for 1998. This increase is
attributable to the improved operations from the Company's Alton, Riverside,
Baton Rouge and Sioux City properties as well as in the increase in operating
income from the Lawrenceburg facility.

     During 1999, the Company used cash flows for investing activities of
$37.1 million versus $14.2 million for 1998. Capital expenditures in 1999
consisted of $10.2 million in maintenance capital, primarily related to slot
machine replacements and $27.5 million for expansion projects, including the
Company's new landing facility (including 130 additional slot machines) in
Alton, renovation of the Baton Rouge boat to accommodate additional slot and
video games and commencement of construction of a 300 room hotel in Baton
Rouge. For the year ended December 31, 1998, capital expenditures were for
investment in the Company's properties including final phase construction
projects at the Lawrenceburg facility.

     During 1999, the Company used $132.3 million in cash flows for financing
activities compared to $37.0 million in cash flows for the same period in
1998. In 1999, the Company received proceeds of $200 million from the
issuance of subordinated notes and $161.8 million from a bank credit
facility. The Company repaid long term debt of $327.7 million, placed $25.2
million in funds in an escrow to retire future debt, repaid $58.0 million on
the credit facility, used $30.6 million to pay premiums to retire existing
debt in connection with its refinancing and used $8.7 million to pay fees in
connection with the refinancing. In 1998, the Company received proceeds of
$7.4 million from the sale of preferred stock and warrants. Cash flows in
both 1999 and 1998 were used to repay loans related to the Company's
Lawrenceburg casino, partner equity distributions related to the Lawrenceburg
partnership and for payments on installment contracts and other long term
debt.

     At December 31, 1999, the Company had approximately $47.1 million of
cash and cash equivalents, including approximately $30.0 million held at the
Indiana Partnership. In addition, the Company has placed in escrow $25.2
million to fund interest payments, redemption premium and principal for the
$22.2 million of Mortgage Notes that were not tendered in the refinancing but
which will be redeemed in June 2000. At December 31, 1999, the Company had
outstanding $200 million of Senior Subordinated Notes, which were issued in
June 1999 and are due in June 2009 and $103.8 million on a senior secured
revolving credit facility. As of February 25, 2000 availability under the
credit facility was approximately $104.0 million.

     The Company has made a significant investment in property and equipment
and plans to make significant additional investments at certain of its
existing properties. In 2000, Argosy expects maintenance capital expenditures
primarily related to the purchase of new gaming product and facility
enhancements to be approximately $20.0 million, and expenditures related to
the Baton Rouge hotel to be approximately $18.0 million.

     The Company believes that cash on hand, operating cash flows and
available capacity under its credit facility, will be sufficient to fund its
current operating, capital expenditure and debt service obligations. The
Company's ability to purchase the minority interest in the Indiana
Partnership, in the event that the limited partners exercise their right to
sell their interest to the other partners, is substantially dependent upon
the success of the Lawrenceburg casino. The Company would be required to fund
a portion of the minority interest purchase by obtaining additional debt or
equity financing. No assurance can be given that the Company would be able to
obtain such additional financing on suitable terms.


                                       8

<PAGE>

                              ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY
                MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                       CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
                                   (continued)


MARKET RISK - INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY

     The market risk inherent in the Company's financial instruments is the
potential loss in fair value arising from adverse changes in interest rates.
Currently, the Company does not use interest rate derivative instruments to
manage exposure to interest rate changes as the majority of the Company's
indebtedness is financed at fixed rates.

     The following table provides information about the Company's debt
obligations that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. The following
table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest
rates by expected maturity dates and estimated fair value of the Company's
debt obligations.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                                  FAIR
                                                                                                                  VALUE
(dollars in thousands)         2000        2001      2002      2003       2004       THEREAFTER      TOTAL       12/31/99
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                            <C>        <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>           <C>          <C>
Fixed Rate Debt                $ 22,846   $   670    $  743    $  825    $    916    $ 202,729     $ 228,729    $ 241,175
Average Interest Rate             13.2%     10.5%     10.5%     10.5%        10.5        10.8%

Variable Rate Debt                9,822    19,675     5,782     9,582     105,783            -       150,644      150,644
Average Interest Rate             12.4%     11.0%     14.5%     12.0%        8.6%            -
</TABLE>

IMPACT OF YEAR 2000

     In prior years, the Company discussed the nature and progress of its
plans to become Year 2000 ready. In late 1999, the Company completed its
remediation and testing of systems. As a result of those planning and
implementation efforts, the Company experienced no significant disruptions in
mission critical information technology and non-information technology
systems and believes those systems successfully responded to the Year 2000
date change. The Company expended approximately $1.0 million in connection
with remediating its systems. The Company is not aware of any material
problems resulting from Year 2000 issues, either with its internal systems,
or the services of third parties. The Company will continue to monitor its
mission critical computer applications and those of its suppliers and vendors
throughout the year 2000 to ensure that any latent Year 2000 matters that may
arise are addressed promptly.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE
PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995

     THIS REPORT CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS WITHIN THE MEANING OF
THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995. WHEN USED IN THIS
DOCUMENT, THE WORDS "ANTICIPATE," "BELIEVE," "ESTIMATE" AND "EXPECT" AND
SIMILAR EXPRESSIONS ARE GENERALLY INTENDED TO IDENTIFY FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS. INVESTORS ARE CAUTIONED THAT ANY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS,
INCLUDING THOSE REGARDING THE INTENT, BELIEF OR CURRENT EXPECTATIONS OF THE
COMPANY OR ITS MANAGEMENT, ARE NOT GUARANTEES OF FUTURE PERFORMANCE AND
INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, AND THAT ACTUAL RESULTS MAY DIFFER
MATERIALLY FROM THOSE IN THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AS A RESULT OF
VARIOUS FACTORS INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, (I) GENERAL ECONOMIC
CONDITIONS IN THE MARKETS IN WHICH THE COMPANY OPERATES, (II) INCREASED
COMPETITIVE PRESSURES IN THE MARKETS IN WHICH THE COMPANY OPERATES, (III) THE
EFFECT OF FUTURE LEGISLATION OR REGULATORY CHANGES ON THE COMPANY'S
OPERATIONS, AND (IV) OTHER RISKS DETAILED FROM TIME TO TIME IN THE COMPANY'S
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION FILINGS. THE COMPANY DOES NOT INTEND TO
UPDATE THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS.

                                       9

<PAGE>

                              ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                 (In thousands except share and per share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                            DECEMBER 31,
                                                                                  ---------------------------------
                                                                                       1999              1998
                                                                                  ---------------   ---------------
<S>                                                                               <C>               <C>
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS:
Cash and cash equivalents                                                         $    47,090       $    89,857
Restricted cash in escrow                                                              25,244                --
Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful
  accounts of $1,328 and $1,936, respectively                                           3,909             2,375
Income taxes receivable                                                                   653               747
Deferred income taxes                                                                  18,681             1,471
Other current assets                                                                    4,840             4,806
                                                                                  -----------       -----------
  Total current assets                                                                100,417            99,256
                                                                                  -----------       -----------

NET PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT                                                            405,205           395,920
                                                                                  -----------       -----------

OTHER ASSETS:
Deferred finance costs, net of accumulated
  amortization of $1,069 and $6,363, respectively                                       8,782             8,758
Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated
  amortization of $7,409 and $5,353, respectively                                      49,761            51,817
Other                                                                                   2,695             7,001
                                                                                  -----------       -----------
  Total other assets                                                                   61,238            67,576
                                                                                  -----------       -----------
Total assets                                                                      $   566,860       $   562,752
                                                                                  ===========       ===========
</TABLE>

           See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      10

<PAGE>

                              ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                 (In thousands except share and per share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                            DECEMBER 31,
                                                                                  ---------------------------------
                                                                                       1999              1998
                                                                                  ---------------   ---------------
<S>                                                                               <C>               <C>
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

CURRENT LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable                                                                        $ 17,894          $ 10,500
Accrued payroll and related expenses                                                      12,174             9,857
Other accrued liabilities                                                                 39,178            34,898
Accrued interest                                                                           3,176             4,490
Current maturities of long-term debt                                                      32,668            11,640
                                                                                        --------          --------
     Total current liabilities                                                           105,090            71,385
                                                                                        --------          --------


LONG-TERM DEBT                                                                           346,705           412,360
DEFERRED INCOME TAXES                                                                      9,945             1,943
OTHER LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS                                                                  219               201
MINORITY INTERESTS IN EQUITY OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES                                 46,656            30,660

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES (NOTE 17)                                               -                 -

SERIES A CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE, 10,000,000 SHARES
    AUTHORIZED, 0 AND 547 SHARES ISSUED AND OUTSTANDING                                        -             5,340
    AT DECEMBER 31, 1999 AND 1998, RESPECTIVELY

STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY:
Common stock, $.01 par; 60,000,000 shares
     authorized; 28,325,106 and 25,830,313 shares issued and
     outstanding at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively                                 283               258
Capital in excess of par                                                                  80,362            74,484
Retained (deficit) earnings                                                              (22,400)          (33,879)
                                                                                        --------          --------
     Total stockholders' equity                                                           58,245            40,863
                                                                                        --------          --------
Total liabilities and stockholders' equity                                              $566,860          $562,752
                                                                                        ========          =========
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       11

<PAGE>

                            ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY
                  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
             (In thousands except share and per share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                ---------------------------------------------------
                                                                     1999              1998              1997
                                                                ---------------   ---------------   ---------------
<S>                                                                  <C>               <C>               <C>
REVENUES:
Casino                                                               $ 559,147         $ 473,505         $ 319,830
Admissions                                                              18,893            16,025             7,895
Food, beverage and other                                                57,998            51,057            34,836
                                                                     ---------         ---------         ---------
                                                                       636,038           540,587           362,561
Less promotional allowances                                            (41,484)          (33,919)          (18,478)
                                                                     ---------         ---------         ---------
Net revenues                                                           594,554           506,668           344,083
                                                                     ---------         ---------         ---------

COSTS AND EXPENSES:
Casino                                                                 250,559           221,682           163,935
Selling, general and administrative                                    117,518            96,550            72,069
Food, beverage and other                                                41,528            40,550            29,962
Other operating expenses                                                27,866            26,639            28,695
Depreciation and amortization                                           34,058            33,436            33,292
Write-down of assets held for sale                                           -                 -             9,600
                                                                     ---------         ---------         ---------
                                                                       471,529           418,857           337,553
                                                                     ---------         ---------         ---------

Income from operations                                                 123,025            87,811             6,530
                                                                     ---------         ---------         ---------

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE):
Interest income                                                          2,870             3,582             5,937
Interest expense                                                       (48,594)          (57,487)          (47,116)
                                                                     ---------         ---------         ---------
                                                                       (45,724)          (53,905)          (41,179)
                                                                     ---------         ---------         ---------

Income (loss) before minority interests, income taxes
     and extraordinary item                                             77,301            33,906           (34,649)
Minority interests                                                     (34,975)          (26,205)           (6,916)
Income tax (expense) benefit                                            (5,900)           (1,140)            1,352
                                                                     ---------         ---------         ---------
Net income (loss) before extraordinary item                             36,426             6,561           (40,213)
Extraordinary loss on extinguishment of debt
     (net of income tax benefit of $13,500)                            (24,920)                -                 -
                                                                     ---------         ---------         ---------
Net income (loss)                                                       11,506             6,561           (40,213)
Preferred stock dividends and accretion                                    (27)             (820)                -
                                                                     ---------         ---------         ---------
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders                 $ 11,479         $   5,741         $ (40,213)
                                                                     =========         =========         =========

Basic net income (loss) per share                                     $   0.41         $    0.23         $   (1.65)
                                                                     =========         =========         =========
Diluted net income (loss) per share                                   $   0.40            $ 0.23         $   (1.65)
                                                                     =========         =========         =========
</TABLE>

           See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                       12

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                              ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                 (In thousands except share and per share data)

                                                                                   YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                      ---------------------------------------------------
                                                                           1999              1998              1997
                                                                      ---------------   ---------------   ---------------
<S>                                                                   <C>               <C>               <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Net income (loss)                                                           $ 11,506           $ 6,561         $ (40,213)
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to
   net cash provided by operating activities:
     Depreciation                                                             31,393            31,011            31,250
     Amortization                                                              4,288             4,329             3,968
     Deferred income taxes                                                     4,292               536              (753)
     Compensation expense recognized on issuance of stock                        113               239               175
     Loss on the disposal of equipment                                           902               789                --
     Minority interests                                                       34,975            26,205             6,916
     Extraordinary item                                                       24,920                --                --
     Write-down of assets held for sale                                           --                --             9,600
     Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
          Accounts receivable                                                 (1,534)             (236)             (221)
          Other current assets                                                  (607)            1,184             3,057
          Accounts payable                                                     7,394            (2,070)           (2,723)
          Accrued liabilities                                                  8,917            12,686            10,637
          Income taxes receivable                                                 94               429             9,935
                                                                           ---------         ---------         ---------
          Net cash provided by operating activities                          126,653            81,663            31,628
                                                                           ---------         ---------         ---------

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
     Long-term obligations                                                        --            (6,583)          (13,586)
     Purchases of property and equipment                                     (37,162)          (34,051)         (117,444)
     Other long-term assets                                                       18               908              (543)
     Restricted cash held by trustees                                             --            25,545            59,006
                                                                           ---------         ---------         ---------
          Net cash used in investing activities                              (37,144)          (14,181)          (72,567)
                                                                           ---------         ---------         ---------

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
     Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt                                200,000                --            25,000
     Proceeds (net of issuance costs) from sale of
          Convertible Preferred Stock and Warrants                                --             7,365                --
     Proceeds from credit facility                                           161,800                --                --
     Repayment of credit facility                                            (58,000)               --                --
     Payments on long-term debt and installment contracts                     (6,830)           (7,299)           (4,326)
     Increase in deferred finance costs                                       (8,736)               --              (638)
     Repurchase of First Mortgage Notes                                     (241,043)               --                --
     Redemption of convertible debentures                                   (117,280)               --                --
     Cash held in escrow                                                     (25,244)               --                --
     Repayment of partner loans                                              (16,285)          (21,939)           43,938
     Partnership distributions                                               (20,043)          (14,496)           (2,677)
     Other                                                                      (615)             (610)              712
                                                                           ---------         ---------         ---------
          Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities               (132,276)          (36,979)           62,009
                                                                           ---------         ---------         ---------
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents                         (42,767)           30,503            21,070
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year                                  89,857            59,354            38,284
                                                                           ---------         ---------         ---------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year                                      $ 47,090          $ 89,857          $ 59,354
                                                                           =========         =========         =========
</TABLE>

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                       13

<PAGE>

                              ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
              (In thousands except share and per share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                  RETAINED        TOTAL
                                                                       COMMON      CAPITAL IN     EARNINGS    STOCKHOLDERS'
                                                        SHARES         STOCK      EXCESS OF PAR  (DEFICIT)       EQUITY
                                                    --------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- -------------
<S>                                                 <C>             <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Balance, December 31, 1996                              24,333,333      $  243      $ 71,865     $    593      $   72,701

     Restricted stock issued                               165,000           2           173           --             175
     Net loss                                                  --           --            --      (40,213)        (40,213)
                                                        ----------      ------      --------     --------      ----------

Balance, December 31, 1997                              24,498,333         245        72,038      (39,620)         32,663
     Restricted stock compensation expense                      --          --           239           --             239
     Issuance of Convertible Preferred
         Stock and Warrants                                     --          --          (235)          --            (235)
     Preferred Stock conversion                          1,331,980          13         2,442           --           2,455
     Net income                                                 --          --            --        6,561           6,561
     Preferred Stock dividends and accretion                    --          --            --         (820)           (820)
                                                        ----------      ------      --------     --------      ----------
Balance, December 31, 1998                              25,830,313         258        74,484      (33,879)         40,863
     Restricted stock compensation expense                      --          --           113           --             113
     Preferred Stock conversion                          2,310,011          23         5,344           --           5,367
     Warrants converted                                    172,496           2           355           --             357
     Exercise of stock options                              11,156          --            46           --              46
     Convertible debentures converted
          into stock                                         1,130          --            20           --              20
     Net income                                                 --          --            --       11,506          11,506
     Preferred Stock dividends and accretion                    --          --            --          (27)            (27)
                                                        ----------      ------      --------     --------      ----------
Balance, December 31, 1999                              28,325,106      $  283      $ 80,362     $(22,400)     $   58,245
                                                        ==========      ======      ========     ========      ==========
</TABLE>

        See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                       14

<PAGE>

                              ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (In thousands except share and per share data)


1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     BASIS OF PRESENTATION--Argosy Gaming Company (collectively with its
subsidiaries, "Argosy" or "Company") is engaged in the business of providing
casino style gaming and related entertainment to the public and, through its
subsidiaries or joint ventures, operates riverboat casinos in Alton,
Illinois; Lawrenceburg, Indiana; Riverside, Missouri; Baton Rouge, Louisiana;
and Sioux City, Iowa. Indiana Gaming Company, L.P. ("Indiana Partnership"), a
limited partnership in which the Company is general partner and holds a 57.5%
partnership interest, opened a riverboat casino and related entertainment and
support facilities at a temporary site in Lawrenceburg, Indiana on December
10, 1996. The Partnership opened its permanent pavilion on December 10, 1997,
and its hotel in May 1998.

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Argosy and its
controlled subsidiaries and partnerships. All significant intercompany
transactions have been eliminated. Under certain conditions, subsidiaries are
required to obtain approval from state gaming authorities before making
distributions to Argosy.

     Certain 1998 and 1997 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the
1999 presentation.

     CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -- The Company considers cash and all highly
liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be
cash equivalents.

     PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT -- Property and equipment are recorded at cost.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the respective lease.
Depreciation is computed on the straight-line method over the following
estimated useful lives:

<TABLE>

       <S>                                                           <C>
       Buildings and shore improvements                              5 to 33 years
       Riverboats, docks and improvements                            5 to 20 years
       Furniture, fixtures and equipment                             5 to 10 years
</TABLE>

     IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS--When events or circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of long-lived assets to be held and used might not
be recoverable, the expected future undiscounted cash flows from the assets
is estimated and compared with the carrying amount of the assets. If the sum
of the estimated undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of
the assets, an impairment loss is recorded. The impairment loss is measured
by comparing the fair value of the assets with their carrying amount.
Long-lived assets that are held for disposal are reported at the lower of the
assets' carrying amount or fair value less costs related to the assets'
disposition.

     DEFERRED FINANCE COSTS -- Deferred finance costs are amortized over the
life of the respective loans using the effective interest method.

     GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS -- Goodwill represents the cost in
excess of fair value of net assets acquired, and is amortized over 40 years.
Other intangible assets, primarily payments to cities, are amortized over the
lives of the respective leases or development agreements including extensions.


                                       15

<PAGE>

     REVENUES AND PROMOTIONAL ALLOWANCES -- The Company recognizes as casino
revenues the net win from gaming activities, which is the difference between
gaming wins and losses. Admissions, hotel and other revenue is recognized at
the time the related service is performed.

     The retail value of admissions, hotel rooms, food, beverage and other
items which were provided to customers without charge has been included in
revenues, and a corresponding amount has been deducted as promotional
allowances. The estimated direct cost of providing promotional allowances has
been included in costs and expenses as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                 ---------------------------------------------------
                                      1999              1998              1997
                                 ---------------   ---------------   ---------------
<S>                              <C>               <C>               <C>
Admissions                              $ 5,895           $ 4,409           $ 1,646
Hotel rooms                               1,059               751                --
Food, beverage and other                 23,347            22,341            15,628
</TABLE>


     ADVERTISING COSTS -- The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred.
Advertising expense was $10,527, $9,833 and $12,475 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

     DEVELOPMENT AND PREOPENING COSTS -- Development costs incurred in an
effort to identify and develop new gaming locations are expensed as incurred.
Preopening costs are expensed as occurred.

2.   PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment consists of the following:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                         DECEMBER 31,
                                                             ---------------------------------
                                                                  1999              1998
                                                             ---------------   ---------------
<S>                                                          <C>               <C>
Land                                                               $ 39,002          $ 39,002
Buildings, leasehold and shore improvements                         217,132           216,067
Riverboats, docks and improvements                                  164,419           148,162
Furniture, fixtures and equipment                                   109,399            93,868
Construction in progress                                              2,642               217
                                                             --------------    --------------
                                                                    532,594           497,316
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization                     (127,389)         (101,396)
                                                             --------------    --------------
Net property and equipment                                        $ 405,205         $ 395,920
                                                             ==============    ==============
</TABLE>

3.   ASSETS HELD FOR SALE

     The Company recorded a charge of $9,600 to adjust the carrying value of
certain assets held for sale to their estimated fair value in 1997. These assets
include the original riverboat casino the Company utilized in Alton, Illinois
from September 1991 until May 1993 and a barge utilized as a temporary landing
facility in Lawrenceburg, Indiana until December 10, 1997. The estimated fair
value of the assets was determined through discussions with a broker and
comparison to other riverboats and barges currently available for sale. The
adjusted carrying value of the boat and barge of approximately $4,300 was
included in other assets in the accompanying balance sheet at December 31, 1998.
The boat was sold to a third party in 1999. During 1999, the Company determined
the barge held for sale was useable as part of the Alton property's dockside
renovation. The barge was placed back in service during December 1999 and has
been reclassified to property and equipment.

                                       16

<PAGE>

4.   OTHER ACCRUED LIABILITIES

     Other accrued liabilities consist of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                       DECEMBER 31,
                                                             ---------------------------------
                                                                  1999              1998
                                                             ---------------   ---------------
<S>                                                          <C>               <C>
Accrued gaming and admissions taxes                                $ 17,532          $ 12,020
Slot club liability                                                   4,195             3,667
Accrued insurance expense                                             6,232             4,529
Other                                                                11,219            14,682
                                                             --------------    --------------
                                                                   $ 39,178          $ 34,898
                                                             ==============    ==============
</TABLE>




5.   LONG-TERM DEBT

     Long-term debt consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                     DECEMBER 31,
                                                                           ---------------------------------
                                                                                1999              1998
                                                                           ---------------   ---------------
<S>                                                                        <C>               <C>
First mortgage notes due June 1, 2004,
   interest payable semi-annually at 13.25%                                      $ 22,242         $ 235,000

Convertible subordinated notes due
   June 1, 2001, convertible into common
   stock at $17.70 per share, interest payable
   semi-annually at 12%                                                                --           115,000

Senior secured line of credit, expires June 2004,
   interest payable at least quarterly at either LIBOR or
   prime plus a margin (from 7.5% to 9.25% at December 31, 1999)                  103,800                --

Senior subordinated notes due June 1, 2009, interest
   payable semi-annually at 10.75%                                                200,000                --

Notes payable, principal and interest
   payments due quarterly through
   September 2015, discounted at 10.5%                                              6,487             7,097

Notes payable, principal and interest payments due
   monthly through December 2001, interest
   payable at prime + 1% (9.5% at
   December 31, 1999), secured by gaming vessel
   and certain equipment                                                           17,933            21,707

Loans from partner, principal due
   in annual installments through 2004,
   interest payable at prime + 6% (14.5% at
   December 31, 1999)                                                              28,911            45,196
                                                                                ---------         ---------
                                                                                  379,373           424,000
Less:  current maturities                                                          32,668            11,640
                                                                                ---------         ---------
Long-term debt, less current maturities                                         $ 346,705         $ 412,360
                                                                                =========         =========
</TABLE>

                                      17

<PAGE>

     On June 8, 1999, the Company issued $200,000 of Senior Subordinated
Notes due 2009 ("Subordinated Notes") and entered into a five year $200,000
Senior Secured revolving bank credit agreement ("Credit Facility"). The
Credit Facility is secured by liens on substantially all of the Company's
assets, and the Company's subsidiaries are co-borrowers. The Company's
joint-venture subsidiaries that operate the Argosy Casino & Hotel
Lawrenceburg and the Belle of Sioux City Casino are not co-borrowers nor are
the assets pledged. All of the Company's wholly-owned operating subsidiaries
guarantee the Subordinated Notes. The Company's joint-venture subsidiaries
that operate the Argosy Casino & Hotel Lawrenceburg and the Belle of Sioux
City Casino do not guarantee the Subordinated Notes. The Subordinated Notes
rank junior to all of the senior indebtedness of the Company, including
borrowings under the Credit Facility and the subsidiary guarantees of the
Subordinated Notes rank junior to the senior indebtedness of the subsidiary
guarantors.

     The Subordinated Notes and the Credit Facility contain certain
restrictions on the payment of dividends on the Company's common stock and
the occurrence of additional indebtedness, as well as other typical debt
covenants. In addition, the Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain
certain financial ratios. The Credit Facility provides for, within two years,
additional borrowing availability of $75 million to be used for general
corporate purposes and a further $150 million increase to fund the purchase
of all outstanding minority interests in the Lawrenceburg partnership. The
increases in the Credit Facility are subject to a number of contingencies
including lender approval. The Credit Facility is subject to scheduled
reductions of 2.5% to 5.0% per quarter, beginning September 2000, of the
total borrowing availability. The Company has a $1.9 million letter of credit
outstanding at December 31, 1999.

     The Company used the net proceeds from the issuance of the Subordinated
Notes, $25,000 in borrowings under the Credit Facility and approximately
$51,000 of cash on hand to tender for and retire approximately $213,000 of
its $235,000 outstanding 13 1/4% First Mortgage Notes due 2004 ("Mortgage
Notes"). Under terms of the Credit Facility, the Company is required to
redeem the remaining $22,242 of untendered Mortgage Notes on June 1, 2000 and
has placed monies in escrow to fund the remaining principal, interest
payments and the June 2000 redemption premium. At December 31, 1999, the
remaining escrow balance of $25,244 is classified as restricted cash in
escrow. On July 7, 1999, the Company redeemed all of its outstanding 12%
Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2001 ("Convertible Notes"). The Company
used borrowings of $105,000 under the Credit Facility and approximately
$13,700 of cash to redeem the Convertible Notes. In connection with the early
extinguishment of the Mortgage Notes and Convertible Notes, the Company
recorded an extraordinary loss of $24,920 net of a tax benefit of $13,500.

     Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997,
was $48,594 (net of $115 capitalized), $57,487 (net of $1,086 capitalized),
and $47,116 (net of $8,391 capitalized), respectively.

     Maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 1999 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

       YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
       ------------------------
       <S>                                     <C>
       2000                                    $ 32,668
       2001                                      20,345
       2002                                       6,525
       2003                                      10,407
       2004                                     106,699
       Thereafter                               202,729
</TABLE>


6.   CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK AND WARRANTS

     On June 16, 1998, the Company issued $8,000 of Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock ("Preferred Shares"), together with warrants to purchase an
additional 292,612 shares of Common Stock at $3.89 per share. The warrants
expire in 2003.

       The Preferred Shares provided for a 4% dividend per annum, payable in
cash and/or in kind, at the time of conversion or maturity, at the Company's
option. Through December 31, 1998, the Preferred Shares had been converted
into 1,331,980 shares of common stock. During the year ended December 31,
1999, the remaining Preferred Shares were converted into 2,310,011 shares of
common stock.

                                       18

<PAGE>

     This transaction provided for put and call options which, subject to
certain restrictions and limitations, allowed for up to an additional $8,000
of Preferred Shares and Warrants to be issued. In December 1998, the Company
amended its agreement with the holders of the Preferred Shares to terminate
both the holders' right to purchase, and the Company's right to require such
holders to purchase, the additional $8 million tranche of Preferred Shares
and related warrants. The Company paid $625 to amend the agreement, and this
amount is included in preferred stock dividends and accretion in the
accompanying statement of operations for 1998.

     During 1999, 201,172 warrants were converted into 172,496 shares of
common stock. No warrants were converted during 1998.

7.   EARNINGS PER SHARE

     The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted
earnings per share:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                           DECEMBER 31,
                                                                        ------------------------------------------------------
                                                                             1999              1998                 1997
                                                                        --------------      -------------      ---------------
<S>                                                                     <C>                 <C>                <C>
NUMERATOR:
Net income (loss)                                                            $ 11,506          $ 6,561         $ (40,213)
Preferred stock dividends and accretion                                           (27)            (820)               --
                                                                        -------------       ----------         ---------
Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per share
      Net income (loss) attributable to common
      stockholders                                                           $ 11,479          $ 5,741         $ (40,213)
                                                                        =============       ==========         =========


DENOMINATOR:
Denominator for basic earnings per share -
      Weighted-average shares outstanding                                  27,828,398       24,498,905        24,333,333

Effect of dilutive securities:
      Warrants                                                                163,073               --                --
      Stock options                                                           569,451               --                --
      Preferred stock                                                         264,806               --                --
      Restricted stock                                                         94,928          105,580                --
                                                                        -------------       ----------         ---------

Denominator for diluted earnings per share - adjusted
      Weighted-average shares and assumed
      conversions                                                          28,920,656       24,604,485        24,333,333
                                                                        =============       ==========       ==========


Basic earnings (loss) per share - before extraordinary item                    $ 1.31           $ 0.23           $ (1.65)
Extraordinary item                                                              (0.90)              --                --
                                                                        -------------       ----------         ---------

Basic earnings (loss) per share - including extraordinary item                 $ 0.41           $ 0.23           $ (1.65)
                                                                        =============       ==========      =============


Diluted earnings (loss) per share - before extraordinary item                  $ 1.26           $ 0.23           $ (1.65)
Extraordinary item                                                              (0.86)              --               --
                                                                        -------------       ----------         ---------

Diluted earnings (loss) per share - including extraordinary item               $ 0.40           $ 0.23           $ (1.65)
                                                                        =============       ==========      ==============
</TABLE>


     Employee and directors stock options to purchase 156,000 shares of
common stock at prices ranging from $11.50 to $16.75 were not included in the
computation of diluted earnings per share because the options exercise price
was greater than the average market price of the common shares and,
therefore, the effect would be anti-dilutive.

                                      19

<PAGE>

8.   INCOME TAXES

Income tax (expense) benefit for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and
1997, consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                            1999              1998             1997
                                        --------------    -------------    -------------
<S>                                     <C>               <C>               <C>
Current:
     Federal                                 $(13,567)        $     --          $    --
     State                                     (1,541)            (604)             866
                                        -------------     ------------     ------------
                                              (15,108)            (604)             866
                                        -------------     ------------     ------------

Deferred:
     Federal                                    9,315               --               --
     State                                       (107)            (536)             486
                                        -------------     ------------     ------------
                                                9,208             (536)             486
                                        -------------     ------------     ------------

Income tax benefit (expense)                 $ (5,900)        $ (1,140)         $ 1,352
                                        =============     ============     ============
</TABLE>

     The provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997, differs from that computed at the federal statutory corporate
tax rate as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                          1999            1998             1997
                                                    --------------  --------------   --------------
<S>                                                 <C>             <C>              <C>
Federal statutory rate                                    35.0 %           35.0 %          (35.0) %
State income taxes, net of federal benefit                 1.4              2.2             (2.6)
Valuation allowance                                      (13.7)            (7.8)            38.7
Goodwill amortization                                      0.3              0.6              0.4
Minority interest in partnership income                  (15.8)           (27.0)            (6.7)
Other, net                                                 0.4              0.4              1.3
                                                    --------------  --------------   --------------
                                                           7.6 %            3.4 %           (3.9) %
                                                    ==============  ==============   ==============
</TABLE>

     The tax effects of significant temporary differences representing
deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 1999 and 1998, are as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                      1999         1998
                                                   -----------  -----------
<S>                                                <C>          <C>
Basis of assets held for sale                      $       --   $     3,739
Depreciation                                          (11,783)      (14,241)
Preopening                                              2,825         3,709
Benefit of net operating loss carryforward             19,418        18,357
Other, net                                                 22           575
                                                   ----------   -----------
                                                       10,482        12,139
Valuation allowance                                    (1,746)      (12,611)
                                                   ----------   -----------

Net deferred tax asset (liability)                 $    8,736   $      (472)
                                                   ==========   ===========
</TABLE>

     The valuation allowance relates to state deferred tax assets established
under SFAS 109 for Louisiana net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $38,600 and $32,700 at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively, and a federal net operating loss carryforward of approximately
$42,400 at December 31, 1998. These loss carryforwards, which will expire
from 2012 through 2019, will be carried forward to future years for possible
utilization. During 1999, the Company recognized a $10,000 tax benefit
representing prior federal income tax net operating losses that are expected
to be utilized in 2000.

                                      20

<PAGE>

9.   SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

     The Company acquired equipment in the amounts of $2,841 and $4,154 in
1998 and 1997, respectively, which was financed through installment contracts.

     The Company paid $48,401, $58,356 and $51,185 for interest, and $1,515,
$784 and $143 for income taxes in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     The Company issued 2,494,793 and 1,331,980 shares of additional common
stock resulting from the conversion of Preferred Stock, the exercise of stock
options, conversion of debentures and the conversion of warrants during 1999
and 1998, respectively.

10.  LEASES

     Future minimum lease payments for operating leases with initial terms in
excess of one year as of December 31, 1999, are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                           YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31,
                           -------------------------
                  <S>                                <C>
                  2000                               $ 2,146
                  2001                                 1,084
                  2002                                   507
                  2003                                   304
                  2004                                   272
                  Thereafter                          17,219
</TABLE>

     Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, was
$5,043, $4,137 and $7,205, respectively.

11.  STOCK OPTION PLANS

     The Company adopted the Argosy Gaming Company Stock Option Plan, as
amended, ("Stock Option Plan"), which provides for the grant of non-qualified
stock options for up to 2,500,000 shares of common stock to key employees of
the Company. These options expire 10 years after their respective grant dates
and become exercisable over a specified vesting period. At December 31, 1999,
options for 645,024 shares are exercisable under the Stock Option Plan. The
weighted average contractual life of outstanding options at December 31, 1999
is approximately 6.5 years and the weighted average exercise price of options
outstanding is $5.98. The weighted average fair value of options granted
during 1999 was $3.07.

     On November 7, 1997 ("Grant Date"), the Company's board of directors
approved a plan that allowed certain employees to exchange their existing
stock options for an amount of options equal to the number of options to be
exchanged multiplied by a fraction: the numerator of which is $4.25 (closing
price on Grant Date) and the denominator of which is the prior option price.
This exchange of options was finalized during 1998, and options for 625,373
shares of stock were exchanged for options for 157,524 shares of stock.

     The Company also has adopted the Argosy Gaming Company 1993 Directors
Stock Option Plan ("Directors Option Plan"), which provides for a total of
50,000 shares of common stock to be authorized and reserved for issuance. The
Directors Option Plan provides for the grant of non-qualified stock options
at fair market value to non-employee directors of the Company as of the date
such individuals become directors of the Company. These options expire five
years after their respective grant dates and become exercisable over a
specified vesting period. At December 31, 1999 options for 6,000 shares are
exercisable under the Directors' Option Plan.

     The Company follows Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB 25"), and related
interpretations in accounting for its employee stock options. Under APB 25,
the Company does not recognize compensation expense when the exercise price
of employee stock options equals or exceeds the market price of the
underlying stock on the date of grant.


                                       21

<PAGE>

     The Company has adopted the disclosure only provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 ("SFAS 123"), "Accounting for Stock
Based Compensation." Accordingly, no compensation expense has been recognized
for either stock plan. Had the valuation methods under SFAS 123 been used for
the Company's stock option grants, the fiscal 1999 pro forma net income
attributable to common stockholders would have been $11,089 and the pro forma
diluted income per share would have been $0.38. The fair value of each option
was estimated on the date of Grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing
model with the following assumptions: dividend yield of zero; expected
volatility 56.5%; risk-free interest rate of 6%, and expected option life of
three years. The fiscal 1998 pro forma net income attributable to common
stockholders would have been $5,579 and the pro forma diluted income per
share would have been $0.23. The fair value of each option was estimated on
the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
following assumptions: dividend yield of zero; expected volatility 52.7%;
risk-free interest rate of 6% and expected option life of three years. The
fiscal 1997 pro forma net loss would have been $40,336 and the pro forma loss
per share would have been $1.66. The fair value of each option was estimated
on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
following assumptions: dividend yield of zero; expected volatility 36.5%;
risk-free interest rate of 6.0% and expected option life of five years. These
pro forma amounts may not be representative of future disclosures because the
estimated fair value of the options is amortized to expense over the vesting
period and additional options may be granted in the future.

     A summary of stock option activity is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                          STOCK OPTION PLAN                              DIRECTORS OPTION PLAN
                           ------------------------------------------------   ---------------------------------------------
                                                RANGE OF EXERCISE PRICE                           RANGE OF EXERCISE PRICE
                                SHARES                 PER SHARE                   SHARES                PER SHARE
                           ------------------ -----------------------------   ----------------   --------------------------
<S>                        <C>                <C>                             <C>                <C>

Outstanding,
   December 31, 1996               2,405,253        $ 16.75 --    $ 19.38          21,000               $11.50 - $19.00
Granted                              406,000           3.13 --       3.44              --                            --
Forfeited                           (744,343)         16.75 --      19.38              --                            --
                           ------------------ -----------------------------   ----------------   --------------------------
Outstanding,
   December 31, 1997               2,066,910           3.13 --      19.38          21,000                 11.50 - 19.00
Exchange of options                 (467,849)          4.25 --      19.38              --                            --
Granted                              232,156           3.31 --       3.44              --                            --
Forfeited                           (239,038)          4.25 --      19.38         (15,000)                        19.00
                           ------------------ -----------------------------   ----------------   --------------------------

Outstanding,
   December 31, 1998               1,592,179           3.13 --      16.75           6,000                         11.50
Granted                              275,000           7.06 --       7.50              --                            --
Exercised                            (11,156)                        4.25              --                            --
Forfeited                           (658,000)                       16.75              --                            --
                           ------------------ -----------------------------   ----------------   --------------------------
Outstanding,
   December 31, 1999               1,198,023        $  3.13 --   $  16.75           6,000                       $ 11.50
                           ================== =============================   ================   ==========================
</TABLE>

                                       22

<PAGE>

12.  RESTRICTED STOCK

     The Company issued 165,000 shares of restricted common stock to certain
new employees in 1997. The value of these shares at their respective grant
dates ranged from $ 3.13 to $3.63. In 1998, 66,000 shares of the restricted
stock vested, and in 2000, 99,000 shares will vest.

     Compensation expense of $566 is being amortized over the period from the
date of grant until the respective vesting dates. Compensation expense of
$113, $239 and $175 was recognized in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

13.  EMPLOYEES BENEFIT PLAN

     The Company established a 401(k) defined-contribution plan, which covers
substantially all of its full-time employees. Participants can contribute a
portion of their eligible salaries (as defined) subject to maximum limits, as
determined by provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The Company will match
a portion of participants' contributions in an amount determined annually by
the Company. Expense recognized under the Plan was approximately $1,145,
$1,134 and $2,168 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

14.  SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS

     The $22,242 outstanding Mortgage Notes are unconditionally guaranteed,
on a joint and several basis, by the following wholly-owned subsidiaries of
the Company: Alton Gaming Company; The Missouri Gaming Company; The St. Louis
Gaming Company; Iowa Gaming Company; Jazz Enterprises, Inc.; Argosy of
Louisiana, Inc.; Catfish Queen Partnership in Commendam; and The Indiana
Gaming Company (the "Guarantors"). The Mortgage Notes are secured, subject to
certain prior liens, by a first lien on (i) substantially all of the assets
of the Company including the assets used in the Company's Alton, Riverside,
Baton Rouge and Sioux City operations, (ii) a pledge of all the capital stock
of, and partnership interests in, the Company's subsidiaries, excluding the
Company's partnership interest in its Sioux City property, (iii) a pledge of
the intercompany notes payable to the Company from its subsidiaries and (iv)
an assignment of the proceeds of the management agreement relating to the
Lawrenceburg casino project. The collateral for the Mortgage Notes does not
include assets of the Indiana Partnership. The Mortgage Notes rank senior in
right of payment to all existing and future indebtedness of the Company.
Pursuant to the Credit Facility, the Company is obligated to redeem the
Mortgage Notes in June 2000 and was required to escrow funds sufficient for
the redemption.

     The Credit Facility is secured by a second lien on substantially all of
the Company's assets and the Company's subsidiaries are co-borrowers. The
Company's joint-venture subsidiaries that operate the Argosy Casino
Lawrenceburg and the Belle of Sioux City casino are not co-borrowers. All of
the Company's wholly-owned operating subsidiaries guarantee the Subordinated
Notes. The Company's joint-venture subsidiaries that operate the Argosy
Casino & Hotel Lawrenceburg and the Belle of Sioux City Casino do not
guarantee the Subordinated Notes. The Subordinated Notes rank junior to all
of the senior indebtedness of the Company, including borrowings under the
Credit Facility and the subsidiary guarantees will rank junior to the senior
indebtedness of the subsidiary guarantors.

     The following tables present summarized balance sheet information of the
Company as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and summarized operating statement
information for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997. The column
labeled "Parent Company" represents the holding company for each of the
Company's direct subsidiaries; the column labeled "Guarantors" represents
each of the Company's direct subsidiaries; all of which are wholly owned by
the parent company; and the column labeled "Non-Guarantors" represents the
partnerships which operate the Company's casinos in Sioux City and in
Lawrenceburg. The Company believes that separate financial statements and
other disclosures regarding the Guarantors, except as otherwise required
under Regulation S-X, are not material to investors.


                                       23

<PAGE>

     Summarized balance sheet information as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, is
as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                                             -----------------
                                       PARENT
                                       COMPANY         GUARANTORS        NON-GUARANTORS       ELIMINATIONS       CONSOLIDATED
                                   ---------------  ----------------   ------------------  ------------------  ----------------
<S>                                <C>              <C>                  <C>                  <C>                 <C>
ASSETS:
   Current assets                       $  46,723         $  23,161             $  34,493         $   (3,960)     $    100,417
   Non-current assets                     348,036           386,193               220,180           (487,966)          466,443
                                   --------------  ----------------   -------------------  -----------------  ----------------
                                        $ 394,759         $ 409,354             $ 254,673         $ (491,926)     $    566,860
                                   ==============  ================   ===================  =================  ================

LIABILITIES AND EQUITY:
   Current liabilities                  $  30,159         $  45,410             $  56,948         $  (27,427)     $    105,090
   Non-current liabilities                306,355           236,263                70,852           (209,945)          403,525
   Stockholders' equity                    58,245           127,681               126,873           (254,554)           58,245
                                   --------------  ----------------   -------------------   ----------------   ---------------
                                        $ 394,759         $ 409,354             $ 254,673         $ (491,926)     $    566,860
                                   ===============  ================  ===================   ================   ===============



                                                             DECEMBER 31, 1998
                                                             -----------------
                                       PARENT
                                      COMPANY          GUARANTORS        NON-GUARANTORS       ELIMINATIONS      CONSOLIDATED
                                   --------------   --------------   -------------------  -----------------  ----------------
<S>                                <C>              <C>                <C>                  <C>                <C>
ASSETS:
   Current assets                       $  55,896         $ 22,236              $  29,585         $   (8,461)        $  99,256
   Non-current assets                     347,441          360,354                227,439           (471,738)          463,496
                                   --------------  ---------------   --------------------   ----------------   ---------------
                                        $ 403,337         $382,590              $ 257,024         $ (480,199)        $ 562,752
                                   ==============  ===============   ====================   ================   ===============

LIABILITIES AND EQUITY:
   Current liabilities                  $   7,134         $ 47,507              $  59,116         $  (42,372)        $  71,385
   Non-current liabilities                350,000          269,878                111,208           (285,922)          445,164
   Convertible preferred stock              5,340               --                     --                 --             5,340
   Stockholders' equity                    40,863           65,205                 86,700           (151,905)           40,863
                                   --------------  ---------------   --------------------  -----------------   ---------------
                                        $ 403,337         $382,590              $ 257,024         $ (480,199)        $ 562,752
                                   =============== ===============   ====================  =================  ================
</TABLE>
                                       24

<PAGE>

     Summarized operating statement information for the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                        PARENT                  ----------------------------
                                        COMPANY        GUARANTORS       NON-GUARANTORS     ELIMINATIONS     CONSOLIDATED
                                     ------------     -------------    ---------------    -------------     -------------
<S>                                  <C>              <C>              <C>                <C>               <C>
Net revenues                            $ 3,108         $ 278,771         $ 361,124         $ (48,449)        $ 594,554
Costs and expenses                       15,144           196,356           263,779            (3,750)          471,529
Net interest (expense) income           (32,203)              633           (14,154)               --           (45,724)
Net income (loss) attributable
    to common stockholders              (37,903)           49,018            78,326           (77,962)           11,479
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                                YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
                                        PARENT                  ----------------------------
                                        COMPANY         GUARANTORS        NON-GUARANTORS      ELIMINATIONS      CONSOLIDATED
                                      -----------     -------------      ----------------    --------------    -------------
<S>                                   <C>             <C>                <C>                 <C>               <C>
Net revenues                            $ 1,988         $ 230,867            $ 308,246         $ (34,433)        $ 506,668
Costs and expenses                        9,984           183,735              227,451            (2,313)          418,857
Net interest (expense) income           (38,356)            4,067              (18,957)             (659)          (53,905)
Net income (loss) attributable
   to common stockholders                 5,741            27,832               56,285           (84,117)            5,741

</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
                                        PARENT                  ----------------------------
                                        COMPANY         GUARANTORS        NON-GUARANTORS      ELIMINATIONS       CONSOLIDATED
                                      ----------       ------------      ---------------     --------------     -------------
<S>                                   <C>              <C>               <C>                 <C>                <C>
Net revenues                            $ 5,795         $ 189,388            $ 158,696          $ (9,796)        $ 344,083
Costs and expenses                       23,630           184,818              136,039            (6,934)          337,553
Net interest (expense) income           (32,145)            2,366               (6,616)           (4,784)          (41,179)
Net (loss) income                       (40,213)            8,696               10,599           (19,295)          (40,213)
</TABLE>

                                      25

<PAGE>

15.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments at
December 31, 1999 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                  CARRYING             FAIR
                                                   AMOUNT             VALUE
                                                 ----------        -----------
<S>                                              <C>                <C>
ASSETS:
Cash and cash equivalents                         $ 47,090          $ 47,090
Restricted cash                                     25,244            25,244

LIABILITIES:
First mortgage notes                                22,242            23,688
Senior Secured Line of Credit                      103,800           103,800
Senior Subordinated Notes                          200,000           211,000
Other long-term debt                                53,331            53,331
</TABLE>


     The fair value of the first mortgage notes and the convertible
subordinated notes are based on quoted market prices. The Company estimates
that the fair value of the remainder of the Company's long-term debt
approximates carrying value.

16.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                  FIRST             SECOND            THIRD           FOURTH
                                                              ------------       -----------       -----------    ------------
<S>                                                            <C>               <C>               <C>            <C>
1999:
Net revenues                                                    $ 137,391         $ 144,602         $ 156,569      $ 155,992
Income from operations                                             24,591            29,695            34,553         34,186
Other expense, net                                                 13,227            12,857            10,048          9,592
Net income before extraordinary item                                2,921             7,691            14,318         11,496
Net income per share before extraordinary item
     Basic                                                           0.11              0.27              0.51           0.41
     Diluted                                                         0.10              0.27              0.51           0.40
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders (1)           2,894           (27,069)           10,658         24,996
Net income (loss) per share (1)
     Basic                                                           0.11             (0.47)             0.38           0.89
     Diluted                                                         0.10             (0.47)             0.37           0.86

                                                                  FIRST             SECOND            THIRD           FOURTH
                                                              ------------       -----------       -----------    ------------
1998:
Net revenues                                                    $ 115,700         $ 124,457         $ 133,533      $ 132,978
Income from operations                                             15,651            19,390            25,697         27,073
Other expense, net                                                 13,482            13,363            13,694         13,366
Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders              (2,537)              244             4,016          4,018
Net income (loss) per share
     Basic                                                          (0.10)             0.01              0.17           0.16
     Diluted                                                        (0.10)             0.01              0.15           0.14
</TABLE>


(1)  The second and third quarters of 1999 include extraordinary losses related
     to the refinancing and were $34.8 million and $3.6 million, respectively.
     The fourth quarter of 1999 extraordinary item represents a $13.5 million
     tax benefit related to the refinancing which was recognized with the
     reversal of deferred tax valuation reserves and the resulting tax
     provision.

                                      26

<PAGE>

17.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

     LAWRENCEBURG, INDIANA--Under terms of the Lawrenceburg partnership
agreement, after December 10, 1999, each limited partner has the right to
sell its interest to the other partners (pro rata in accordance with their
respective percentage interests). In the event of this occurrence, if the
partners cannot agree on a selling price, the Indiana Partnership will be
sold in its entirety.

     OTHER--A predecessor entity to the Company ("Predecessor"), as a result
of a certain shareholder loan transaction, could be subject to federal and
certain state income taxes (plus interest and penalties, if any) if it is
determined that it failed to satisfy all of the requirements of the
S-Corporation provisions of the Internal Revenue Code relating to the
prohibition concerning a second class of stock. An audit is currently being
conducted by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") of the Company's federal
income tax returns for the 1992 and 1993 tax years and the IRS has identified
the S-Corporation status as one of the issues, although the IRS has yet to
make a formal claim of deficiency. If the IRS successfully challenges the
Predecessor's S-Corporation status, the Company would be required to pay
federal and certain state income taxes on the Predecessor's taxable income
from the commencement of its operations until February 25, 1993 (plus
interest and penalties, if any, thereon until the date of payment). If the
Predecessor was required to pay federal and state income taxes on its taxable
earnings through February 25, 1993, such payments could amount to
approximately $14.8 million, including interest through December 31, 1999,
but excluding penalties, if any. While the Company believes the Predecessor
has legal authority for its position that it is not subject to federal and
certain state income taxes because it met the S-Corporation requirements, no
assurances can be given that the Predecessor's position will be upheld. This
contingent liability could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. No provision has
been made for this contingency in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements.

     The Company is subject, from time to time, to various legal and
regulatory proceedings, in the ordinary course of business. The Company
believes that current proceedings will not have a material effect on the
financial condition of the Company.


                                       27

<PAGE>

                          REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors
Argosy Gaming Company

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Argosy
Gaming Company as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1999. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on
a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Argosy Gaming Company at December 31, 1999 and 1998 and the consolidated
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1999 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States.

                                                ERNST & YOUNG LLP



Chicago, Illinois
January 28, 2000


                                      28

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 21
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                      Exhibit 21

                        LIST OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES


The following is a list of the significant subsidiaries of the registrant:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                            STATE OF                    PERCENTAGE
                                                          INCORPORATION                 OWNERSHIP
NAME OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARY                           OR ORGANIZATION                OF ENTITY
- ------------------------------                           ---------------                ---------

<S>                                             <C>                                      <C>
Alton Gaming Company                                  Illinois Corporation                 100%
The Missouri Gaming Company                           Missouri Corporation                 100%
The St. Louis Gaming Company                          Missouri Corporation                 100%
The Indiana Gaming Company                             Indiana Corporation                 100%
Iowa Gaming Company                                     Iowa Corporation                   100%
Iowa Development Corporation                            Iowa Corporation                   100%
Argosy of Louisiana, Inc.                             Louisiana Corporation                100%
Jazz Enterprises, Inc.                                Louisiana Corporation                100%
Catfish Queen Partnership
    In Commendam                                      Louisiana Partnership                100%
Indiana Gaming Company, L.P.                       Indiana Limited Partnership            57.5%
Belle of Sioux City, L.P.                           Iowa Limited Partnership               70%
Centroplex Centre Convention Hotel, L.L.C.      Louisiana Limited Liability Company        100%
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                      Exhibit 23

                         CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS





         We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-76418) pertaining to the Stock Option Plan and
Director Option Plan of Argosy Gaming Company of our report dated January 28,
2000, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Argosy Gaming
Company incorporated by reference in the Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year
ended December 31, 1999.

         Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of Argosy
Gaming Company listed in Item 14 (a). This schedule is the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our
audits. In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.






                                                  Ernst & Young LLP





Chicago, Illinois
March 10, 2000
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 24
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                      Exhibit 24


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of Argosy
Gaming Company, a Delaware corporation, which is about to file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission under the provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 its Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended
December 31, 1998 hereby constitutes and appoints James B. Perry and Dale R.
Black and each of them, his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents with
full power to act without the other, to sign such Annual Report and to file such
Annual Report and the exhibits thereto and any and all other documents in
connection therewith with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and to do and
perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in
connection with the foregoing as fully as he might or could do in person hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or either
of them, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.




Dated:  January 27, 2000             /s/  Edward F. Brennan
                                     ----------------------------------------
                                     Edward F. Brennan
                                     Director


                                     /s/  George L. Bristol
                                     ----------------------------------------
                                     George L. Bristol
                                     Director


                                     /s/  Felix Lance Callis
                                     ----------------------------------------
                                     Felix Lance Callis
                                     Director


                                     /s/  William F. Cellini
                                     ----------------------------------------
                                     William F. Cellini
                                     Director


                                     /s/  Jimmy F. Gallagher
                                     ----------------------------------------
                                     Jimmy F. Gallagher
                                     Director


                                     /s/  John Biggs Pratt, Sr.
                                     ----------------------------------------
                                     John Biggs Pratt, Sr.
                                     Director


                                     /s/  William McEnery
                                     ----------------------------------------
                                     William McEnery
                                     Director

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 27
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>
<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM DECEMBER 31,
1999 FORM 10-K OF ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY AND IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY
REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000
<CURRENCY> U.S. DOLLARS

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1999
<PERIOD-START>                             JAN-01-1999
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1999
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                      1
<CASH>                                          47,090
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                                    4,525
<ALLOWANCES>                                     1,328
<INVENTORY>                                      1,260
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               100,417
<PP&E>                                         532,594
<DEPRECIATION>                                 127,389
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                 566,860
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          105,090
<BONDS>                                        343,975
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                           283
<OTHER-SE>                                      57,962
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                   566,860
<SALES>                                              0
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                               594,554
<CGS>                                                0
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  471,529
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                     0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                 1,003
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              48,594
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                 42,326
<INCOME-TAX>                                     5,900
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                             36,426
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                               (24,920)
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                    11,506
<EPS-BASIC>                                        .41
<EPS-DILUTED>                                      .40


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
