-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Wne4soSNhFh+nuvx/Eo9SKXdkR8eCqO6ZR+mjwjmGfS4QLFf0fXpBPi4OOOf5E0L
 kVXjNP89pauWikIfc4SNMA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000921895-02-000151.txt : 20020415
<SEC-HEADER>0000921895-02-000151.hdr.sgml : 20020415
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000921895-02-000151
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		2
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20011231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20020329

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			NYFIX INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000099047
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN [7373]
		IRS NUMBER:				061344888
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-12292
		FILM NUMBER:		02592680

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		333 LUDLOW STREET
		CITY:			STAMFORD
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06902
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2034258000

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TRINITECH SYSTEMS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940404

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TRANS AIRE ELECTRONICS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19910916
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>form10k01805_03272002.htm
<TEXT>
<html>
<head>
<title>sec document</title>
</head>
<body>
<PRE>

                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K
      (Mark one)

      /X/ Annual  report  pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
      Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934  For the  Fiscal  Year
      Ended December 31, 2001
      OR
      Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
      Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934 For the transition
      period from ________to________

                         Commission file number: 0-21324

                                   NYFIX, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          NEW YORK                                        06-1344888
   (State of incorporation)             (I.R.S. Employer identification number)

                      333 LUDLOW STREET, STAMFORD, CT 06902
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (203) 425-8000

Securities registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act: NONE

Securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act:

COMMON STOCK, $.001 PAR VALUE PER SHARE         NASDAQ STOCK MARKET
     (Title of each class)           (Name of each exchange on which registered)

Check  whether  the  registrant  (1) filed all  reports  required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Exchange  Act during the past 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the  registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2)
has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /X/ No / /

Check if there is no disclosure of delinquent  filers in response to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K contained in this form, and no disclosure  will be contained,  to
the  best  of  registrant's   knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. /X/

The  aggregate  market value of the voting stock held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant was approximately $338 million,  as of March 15, 2002. Solely for the
purposes of this  calculation,  shares  held by  directors  and  officers of the
Registrant  have  been  excluded.   Such  exclusion   should  not  be  deemed  a
determination by the Registrant that such individuals are, in fact, "affiliates"
of the Registrant.

As of March 15, 2002 there were  27,879,625  shares of the  Registrant's  Common
Stock outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

DOCUMENTS                                              FORM 10-K REFERENCE
Proxy Statement for the 2002 Annual Meeting
   of Stockholders                                     Part III, Items 10 - 13
<PAGE>
                                   NYFIX, INC.
                         TABLE OF CONTENTS TO FORM 10-K


         Item Number                                                    Page
         -----------                                                    ------
PART I

         ITEM 1 - BUSINESS                                                1

         ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES                                             18

         ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS                                      18

         ITEM 4 - SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF
                        SECURITY HOLDERS                                 19

PART II

         ITEM 5 - MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S EQUITY AND RELATED
                        STOCKHOLDER MATTERS                              19

         ITEM 6 - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA                                20

         ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                        CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION               20

         ITEM 7A - QUANTATATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
                        MARKET RISK                                      28

         ITEM 8 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA            28

         ITEM 9 - CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
                        ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE              28

PART III

         ITEM 10 - DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT    29

         ITEM 11 - EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION                                29

         ITEM 12 - SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
                        AND MANAGEMENT                                   29

         ITEM 13 - CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS        29

PART IV

         ITEM 14 - EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS
                        ON FORM 8-K                                      29

<PAGE>
                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

NYFIX, INC. (the "Company" or "NYFIX"),  a New York corporation  formed in 1991,
is a leading provider of electronic  trading  infrastructure and technologies to
the  professional  trading  segment  of the  brokerage  community.  At a special
meeting of NYFIX  shareholders held on March 14, 2002, the shareholders voted to
authorize the transfer of  substantially  all of the Company's assets to a newly
created,  wholly-owned  subsidiary of the Company,  named NYFIX USA, LLC. NYFIX,
Inc.  will  now  operate  as a  holding  company,  providing  overall  strategy,
financial planning and evaluation of potential acquisitions for the Company.

NYFIX currently has four subsidiaries:

     1.   NYFIX USA, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary, operates the Company's core
          business and develops real-time order management trader  workstations,
          exchange  automation  systems,  trade order and execution  routing and
          straight-through  processing  solutions for brokerage  firms and other
          financial  institutions.  NYFIX USA  operates the NYFIX  Network,  the
          industry's largest Financial  Information Exchange (FIX) order-routing
          network.  NYFIX USA is a pioneer in the  adoption of the FIX  protocol
          and all its  products  are  FIX-compliant.  NYFIX USA sells our equity
          systems  primarily on a subscription  basis,  with customers  paying a
          monthly fee for software and services.

     2.   NYFIX TRANSACTION SERVICES,  INC. will operate as a broker-dealer upon
          approval of its membership  application by the National Association of
          Securities  Dealers  (NASD).  In  December  2001,  NYFIX  acquired  an
          existing  broker-dealer  that will  serve as the  basis of this  unit.
          NYFIX  Transaction  Services will be a wholly owned  subsidiary  which
          plans to provide execution and smart order routing solutions primarily
          to domestic and international  broker-dealers and specialized  trading
          firms  for a single  per share  fee.

     3.   NYFIX  OVERSEAS,  INC.,  our  London-based  wholly  owned  subsidiary,
          specializes  in  electronic  trading  solutions  for  the  derivatives
          markets  and  develops  order  management  workstations  and  exchange
          interface  systems,  supporting trading on more than 20 of the world's
          leading international derivatives exchanges. NYFIX Overseas offers its
          products  on both a sales and  subscription  basis and is  focusing on
          developing a transaction-based offering.

     4.   NYFIX  MILLENNIUM,  L.L.C.,  an  80%  owned  subsidiary,  is  an  NASD
          broker-dealer  and operates an Alternative  Trading System (ATS).  The
          NYFIX Millennium ATS provides a real-time,  anonymous  matching system
          for equity  trading.  NYFIX  Millennium  leverages the NYFIX Network's
          large  order  routing  shares  volume  to  provide  a  more  efficient
          liquidity  source for the  financial  community.  On February 1, 2002,
          NYFIX increased its ownership  percentage in NYFIX  Millennium  L.L.C.
          from 50% to 80%. The  remaining  20% is owned by a  consortium  of ten
          brokerage  firms.  NYFIX  Millennium  charges  for its  services  on a
          transaction-fee basis.

ACQUISITIONS &amp; INVESTMENTS

During the fourth  quarter of 2001,  NYFIX  completed the  acquisition of a NASD
broker-dealer and former member of the Chicago Stock Exchange, which will become
the basis for its transaction-based  business.  This unit, which will be renamed
NYFIX Transaction Services,  has submitted a membership  application to the NASD
in  order to  operate  as a  broker-dealer.  Once its  broker-dealer  status  is
approved,  NYFIX  Transaction  Services will  commence  sales of a bundled order
management and routing technology combined with an

                                       1

<PAGE>

execution service. This service will be sold on a transaction-fee basis.

On March 6,  2002,  NYFIX  entered  into an  equity  partnership  with a Madrid,
Spain-based  company,  EuroLink  Network,  Inc.  ("EuroLink").  NYFIX owns a 40%
interest  in  EuroLink  and  holds the  option to  purchase  an  additional  40%
ownership  interest at a later date.  EuroLink  will  distribute  the  Company's
equity  products  and  services  to the  European  marketplace,  primarily  on a
transaction-fee basis. The Company invested $4 million in EuroLink.

On March 12, 2002, NYFIX announced that it had signed a definitive  agreement to
acquire Javelin Technologies,  Inc. ("Javelin").  Javelin, a leading supplier of
electronic  trade  communication  technology  and the  leading  provider  of FIX
technology,  has  over  1,000  installations  at more  than  300  major  buy and
sell-side  institutions,   securities  clearing  houses,  hedge  fund  managers,
exchanges  and ECNs  worldwide,  including  over 50  clients in Europe and 20 in
Asia.  Javelin's  products are sold  primarily on a one-time  sales basis,  with
recurring fees charged for ongoing  service and support.  NYFIX is financing the
transaction  with a  combination  of  approximately  $11,000,000  cash and NYFIX
common stock with a value of approximately  $44,000,000.  In addition, NYFIX has
negotiated an earn-out  based on Javelin's  2002  revenues.  The  transaction is
scheduled to close by March 31, 2002.

COMPANY OVERVIEW - BRINGING EFFICIENCY TO THE TRADING PROCESS

We are a leading  provider of electronic  trading systems,  industry-wide  trade
routing connectivity, straight-through processing ("STP") and execution services
and systems to the global equities and derivatives  financial markets.  With our
desktop  solutions,  stationary and wireless exchange floor systems,  electronic
automation systems and STP, we streamline data entry,  routing and execution and
eliminate many processing inefficiencies. Our infrastructure,  which consists of
an extensive  network of electronic  circuits and redundant data centers,  links
industry participants across equities and derivatives markets. Our technology is
being  used by over  200  customers,  many of  which  are the  largest  and most
respected firms in the industry,  and we have gained prominent market share with
New York Stock  Exchange  ("NYSE")  member  firms.  We processed an average NYSE
daily volume of 212 million  shares in the first quarter of 2000, a number which
has grown to  approximately  500  million  shares in 2001,  with  daily  volumes
reaching as high as 1.2 billion  shares.

Our  products  and  services are broadly  categorized  into  electronic  trading
infrastructure and applications and provide our customers a complete solution to
enter, manage and route trade data and execute orders electronically.  The NYFIX
Network is a proprietary  centralized electronic  infrastructure linking various
market  participants  to provide  efficient,  secure and reliable order routing.
Through the NYFIX Network, we provide the infrastructure for trade communication
and global order routing  between  buyside and sellside  institutions,  numerous
exchange floors,  as well as other electronic  trade execution  venues,  such as
ECNs and ATSs. The NYFIX Network  currently  includes more than 1,500 high-speed
frame-relay  circuits,  alternative  routes,  fiber  optics  and  sonnet-network
infrastructure,   providing  an  efficient,   secure  and  reliable  method  for
electronic trade communication. We have built and operate large scale, redundant
data-centers to support  communications  through the NYFIX Network. We also have
developed  and  offer  an  integrated   portfolio  of  modular  desktop  trading
applications,  exchange floor  automation and exchange access  applications  for
trading in domestic and international equities,  futures and options. All of our
applications  reside on our  centralized  system and are  delivered  through the
NYFIX Network.  By seamlessly  integrating  our proprietary  infrastructure  and
software applications, we provide our customers with a complete electronic order
management  and  execution  solution.  Our systems  are based upon the  industry
standard  FIX  protocol  and  our  core  systems  are  currently  offered  on  a
subscription basis, with infrastructure, software and maintenance provided for a
monthly   fee.   As  noted   earlier,   the   Company  is  planning  to  develop
transaction-based  revenue streams through NYFIX  Millennium,  NYFIX Transaction
Services and EuroLink.  The introduction of trade execution to the NYFIX product
and service  offering  commenced with the launch of the NYFIX  Millennium ATS in
September 2001.


                                       2
<PAGE>


The large  quantity of  orderflow  processed  by the NYFIX  Network has uniquely
positioned us to develop,  together with NYFIX Millennium, an ATS that functions
similarly to an ECN in that it matches buy and sell orders. NYFIX Millennium can
match  either  buy and sell  orders  or pass them  through  to the  exchange  or
execution  venue of the trader's  choice,  in  real-time,  which we believe is a
unique  feature  and key  differential  from  other  ATSs and ECNs  that rely on
captive order liquidity.  NYFIX Millennium augments  traditional auction markets
by combining the electronic execution technology of an ECN with the liquidity of
traditional  primary  markets.  Institutional  traders  benefit  from the  order
invisibility and anonymity  provided by NYFIX  Millennium,  which eliminates the
negative price impact  associated  with displaying  large blocks of shares.  The
NYFIX  Millennium ATS went into full  production on September 5, 2001 and we are
currently  focusing on  expanding  NYFIX  Millennium's  user base and  execution
volumes.

We have been  profitable  since the first  quarter  of 1999 and have had  twelve
quarters  of  consecutive  profitability.   Our  net  income  has  increased  to
$8,136,000  in 2001 from  $5,676,000  in 2000 and  $960,000  in 1999.  Our total
revenues have  increased to  $41,397,000  in 2001 from  $23,980,000  in 2000 and
$12,209,000 in 1999, representing a compound annual growth rate of 84%. To date,
we have principally derived our revenues from long-term  subscriptions,  product
sales and services. In addition to developing our subscription revenues, we have
begun to develop transaction-based  revenues. Rather than a monthly per terminal
fee,  transaction-based revenues will be derived by charging a per share fee for
trades executed by NYFIX,  either within the NYFIX Millennium ATS or through the
NYFIX  Transaction  Services  unit. We are well  positioned to distribute  order
routing terminals in certain domestic and international  market segments seeking
more direct  exchange  and  execution  access and trade  processing  services in
return for per share based  transaction  fees. We believe there is a substantial
market  for these  types of  transaction  revenue  streams.  Our  order  routing
connectivity  capabilities  and  technology  platform  also enable us to support
transaction  revenue  generation in our subsidiaries,  NYFIX  Millennium,  NYFIX
Transaction Services and in our affiliate, EuroLink.

Our goal is to become the leading provider of real-time  electronic trade entry,
routing and execution  solutions to the global financial services  industry.  To
achieve this, we plan to:

     o    increase the number of  participants in the NYFIX Network and continue
          to  expand  the  suite  of  products  and  services  available  to our
          customers;

     o    develop transaction revenue streams in NYFIX Millennium;

     o    develop  transaction  revenue  streams  from  our  electronic  trading
          infrastructure and technologies through NYFIX Transaction Services and
          EuroLink;

     o    establish and expand  orderflow  through NYFIX Millennium and leverage
          strategic partnerships;

     o    expand the universe of  securities  being traded  through our network;
          and

     o    continue to protect our customers' roles in the distribution market.

Our  headquarters  are  located at  Stamford  Harbor  Park,  333 Ludlow  Street,
Stamford,  Connecticut,  06902,  telephone  number  (203)  425-8000  and we also
maintain  offices  in  New  York,   Chicago,   San  Francisco  and  London.  Our
international operations are conducted through our subsidiary, NYFIX Overseas.

Information  about the  Company's  business  segment  and sales to  unaffiliated
customers,  gross  profit  and  identifiable  assets,  by  geographic  area,  is
contained  in  "Note  16  -  Business  Segment  Information"  appearing  in  the
consolidated  financial statements as noted in the Index appearing under Item 14
(a) (1).


                                       3
<PAGE>


INDUSTRY OVERVIEW

INEFFICIENCIES IN THE TRADITIONAL MARKET

Historically,  stock markets operated  physical trading floors with trades being
executed by open outcry.  Prior to 1995, the trading industry,  in both equities
and derivatives, relied substantially upon intra-day handwritten trading tickets
and manually recorded trading blotters. Voice communication by telephone was the
primary  method of  communicating  orders and executions  between  institutional
customers,  traders at  brokerage  firms and brokers  operating  on the exchange
floors. The NYSE continues to operate a physical trading floor where member firm
floor brokers  deliver  orders to a  specialist,  an  intermediary  that makes a
market in the stocks listed on the exchange.

In addition  to  processing  inefficiencies,  the  presence  of an  intermediary
results in pricing that does not always  represent  the true value of a security
at any given point in time. A specialist or market maker can generate mark up or
mark  down  profits  through  sales  or  purchases  of that  intermediary's  own
inventory,  which  creates an inherent  conflict  with its duty to establish and
maintain  a truly  efficient  and  liquid  market.  Further  concerns  of  price
distortion arise from the intermediary being the sole keeper of customer buy and
sell  intentions  and the  potential  leakage  of  trading  intentions  to other
brokers.  By  compromising  the  anonymity  and intent of an  investor,  further
distortion  of  security  valuations  can  result as other  third  party  market
participants could profit from information about their counterpart's  intent and
purchase or sell before them, many times even when such third party had no prior
interest in the security.

GROWTH IN TRADING VOLUME

Trading  volume in equities and  derivatives  has grown  significantly  in major
markets  around the world.  In the U.S.,  the average  daily share volume on the
NYSE  increased  to 1.2  billion in 2001,  from 674  million in 1998,  while the
average daily share volume on Nasdaq  increased to 1.9 billion in 2001, from 787
million in 1998.

International  equity and derivative  markets have also experienced  significant
growth. As an example, average daily trading volume on the London Stock Exchange
increased 46% in 2001.

DEVELOPMENT OF ELECTRONIC TRADING TECHNOLOGIES

As trading volume and market volatility  continue to increase in both the listed
and over-the-counter (OTC) markets,  brokerage firms are increasingly seeking to
utilize technology solutions to route, track and manage orderflow,  while at the
same time reducing errors and maintaining  controls on their  operations.  While
technology  offering the benefits of trade  automation has been available  since
the early 1990s,  the  departure  from  handwritten  trade  tickets did not gain
acceptance  until the  mid-1990s.  The lack of order  routing  and  connectivity
standards,  as  well  as the  entrenched  role of the  trader  in the  brokerage
industry,  was  partially  the cause for the delayed  acceptance  of  electronic
systems. A series of major trading scandals during the 1990s, however,  prompted
investment firms, brokerage firms and regulators to accept that the pace, volume
and volatility in the markets had reached a level where  real-time  computerized
electronic tracking of trading activities was necessary.

As a major step toward industry  standardization  for electronic  order routing,
the financial  services industry began to adopt the FIX protocol as the industry
standard by the mid 1990's.  The FIX protocol  provides the  brokerage  industry
with  a  common   underlying   language   to  enable   electronic   trading  and
communications   and  is  now  considered  the  globally  adopted  standard  for
electronic order routing.

Today,  many firms and regulators in the securities  trading industry  recognize
the  necessity of  implementing  straight-through  processing  solutions,  which
integrate all aspects of trading from the front  office,  middle office and back
office,  in order to reduce  settlement  cycles,  costly  errors and the cost to
process transactions. Prolonged growth in the market is expected as the industry
replaces  legacy  systems  and  in-house  proprietary  systems  with more modern
industry and FIX  compliant  systems.  Many firms will also need to  continually
upgrade their  systems  because of the general  evolution in computer  operating
systems, networking and storage systems technologies.

                                       4
<PAGE>


New regulations governing the recording and transmission of orders to and on the
NYSE floor were adopted in early 2001. These  regulations are known as Rule 123.
The first phase of Rule 123 requires all orders received on the NYSE floor to be
input into an  electronic  order  management  system for better  monitoring  and
tracking of trades. The second phase of Rule 123 requires all orders sent to the
NYSE to be sent  electronically.  Rule 123  required  that all NYSE member firms
adopt electronic order management systems by September 10, 2001.

DEVELOPMENT OF THE EQUITY MARKET STRUCTURE

The advent of high-speed electronic data communication networks and computerized
trading has  highlighted  the potential for more efficient  interaction  between
buyers and sellers in the financial markets. The U.S. equities markets have seen
the introduction of new regulations  paving the way for ECNs and ATSs to compete
with  traditional  exchanges  such as the NYSE and the American  Stock  Exchange
(Amex) in the listed  market and Nasdaq in the OTC  market.  These ECNs and ATSs
seek to provide more efficient  trading  mechanisms  while  bringing  buyers and
sellers directly together without an intermediary.

As almost every traditional  exchange floor in Europe and Asia has been replaced
by electronic systems, much debate continues in the U.S. relating to the role of
the  specialist and the  efficiency of the NYSE,  the world's  largest  exchange
floor in terms of its listed  companies' market  capitalization.  The debate has
increased with the recent introduction of decimal trading.  While decimalization
was designed and recently  implemented to make price quotes more  understandable
for consumers,  an unexpected side effect of decimalization has been an increase
in the  trading  activity  of the  specialists  competing  with the  buyers  and
sellers,  resulting in the reluctance of institutional investors to expose block
orders on the books of the specialists.

The marketplace saw a number of ECNs and ATSs emerge during the late 1990s.  The
challenge  for  these  new  trading  venues  is to  attract  sufficient  trading
liquidity,  also known as orderflow,  which is transaction  volume being entered
into these  trading  venues.  ECNs have  captured  approximately  46% of the OTC
market-share  in executed  volume in a relatively  short period of time.  Due in
large part to a lack of access to the electronic  infrastructure carrying listed
orderflow, ECNs have only captured approximately 6% of the executed daily volume
in the listed equity market.

The goal of ATSs and ECNs is to bring  buyers and sellers  together  directly in
more  efficient  electronic  execution  venues.  However,  the  introduction  of
multiple  venues in  addition  to the  traditional  exchanges  has created a new
problem of market  fragmentation.  Each market or execution  venue  represents a
separate  liquidity  pool and the  available  liquidity  and  pricing  among the
different pools is not synchronized. In addition to the technological problem of
establishing  connectivity  between the multiple  liquidity  pools,  the trading
community is faced with the constant  problem of trading in one  liquidity  pool
while a better price may be available in another venue.

NEED FOR OUTSOURCED SOLUTIONS

While  trading  volume  has  increased  and the need for direct  access  trading
technologies  has  become  evident,   investors   themselves  have  become  more
sophisticated  and focused on the overall  quality of execution and  transaction
cost of trades.  Sophisticated trading strategies,  particularly those involving
multiple securities or types of financial instruments,  are difficult to execute
without both direct and rapid market  access and a system that  provides easy to
use order entry,  management  and  execution.  Many companies are realizing that
they cannot  continue to  internally  develop  systems to keep pace with current
technological   developments,   nor  can  they  afford  adequate  investment  to
independently  maintain  connectivity  infrastructure  and redundant  systems to
participants in the evolving  trading market,  and have therefore been driven to
outsource these functions.

Institutional  traders are seeking solutions that offer direct access,  speed of
delivery,   quality  of  execution  and  full  integration  between  traditional
exchanges and modern ECNs and ATSs.

                                       5
<PAGE>


OUR SOLUTION

We are a leading provider of electronic trading  infrastructure and technologies
to the  professional  trading  segment  of the  brokerage  industry.  We provide
electronic  trading desktop  solutions,  stationary and wireless  exchange floor
systems,   electronic  access  automation  and  straight-through  processing  to
brokerage  firms and  international  banks  trading  in  equities,  futures  and
options.  Our  product  portfolio  is well  positioned  to meet the  current and
developing needs of our customers, providing:

     o    HIGH-SPEED,   REDUNDANT  FIX   CONNECTIVITY  TO  MAJOR  GLOBAL  MARKET
          PARTICIPANTS.  The NYFIX  Network is designed to provide the financial
          community with a central electronic infrastructure. Through over 1,500
          circuits and  alternative  routes,  we currently  connect  buyside and
          sellside  institutions,   domestic  and  international  exchanges  and
          various ATSs,  ECNs and third  markets.  Communications  are processed
          through  our NYFIX Super FIX  engine,  which is one of the  industry's
          largest and most advanced FIX processing  engines.  As a result,  this
          broad connectivity has enabled us to process a significant  portion of
          listed  equity volume each trading day. Due to our reach and access to
          the global  marketplace,  we are  increasingly  being  regarded as the
          common  industry   electronic  meeting  point,  which  encourages  new
          participants or those evaluating  changing their existing solutions to
          seek connectivity to our network.

     o    EASY-TO-USE,  INTEGRATED  ELECTRONIC  TRADING  PRODUCTS.  We  offer an
          integrated  suite of desktop  trading,  exchange floor  automation and
          exchange access applications,  as well as straight-through  processing
          for  trading in  domestic  and  international  equities,  futures  and
          options.  All of our  products  are  available  as modules that can be
          delivered as either  complete  systems or as  components to complement
          our customers'  existing  solutions and needs. We continually focus on
          speed of applications,  intuitive,  easy-to-use  designs and close and
          immediate   integration   with  the  NYFIX   network.   By  seamlessly
          integrating our proprietary  infrastructure and software applications,
          we provide  our  customers a complete  solution  to enter,  manage and
          route orders and execution data electronically.

     o    FULLY OUTSOURCED  FLEXIBLE  SOLUTION.  As an alternative to developing
          technology  in-house,  customers  can outsource to NYFIX to serve as a
          common and neutral meeting place for financial  information  exchange.
          Our  offerings  consist of a widely  deployed  network,  managed  data
          center  and  telecommunications  services,  and  a  modular  suite  of
          applications,  which enable our major  brokerage  customers to achieve
          both strategic advantages and cost savings.

Our NASD  registered  broker-dealer  subsidiary,  NYFIX  Millennium,  operates a
highly automated  execution venue designed to reduce overall  transaction  costs
and  maximize  execution  quality  for  institutional   brokerage  firms.  NYFIX
Millennium is referred to as a hybrid market system  because it works to augment
traditional auction markets and combines the electronic  execution technology of
an ECN with the liquidity of traditional primary markets.  NYFIX Millennium aims
to provide increased liquidity and price improvement, while eliminating negative
price  impact for  institutional  size  trades.  It is designed to mitigate  the
current problems caused by market  fragmentation  and the  inter-positioning  of
specialists and market makers in the transaction  process. The key advantages of
NYFIX Millennium are:

     o    INVISIBLE AND ANONYMOUS MATCHING. Institutions are highly motivated to
          conceal their trading  intentions and to protect their  anonymity.  In
          the primary market for listed equities,  when institutions enter large
          orders or disclose their trading intent,  such actions cause others to
          react, which impacts the stock price before the institutions  complete
          their  purchases or sales.  A key feature of NYFIX  Millennium  is its
          capability to invisibly expose and anonymously match orders,  enabling
          institutions  to  trade in and out of block  positions  in  real-time,
          without causing counterproductive price swings.

     o    INTEGRATED ACCESS TO LIQUIDITY.  Most ECNs lack access to liquidity in
          the listed market and fragment


                                       6
<PAGE>

          the market by creating  separate  pools of liquidity.  By  integrating
          NYFIX  Millennium  directly  into the NYFIX  network,  customers  have
          simultaneous  access to  liquidity  in both NYFIX  Millennium  and the
          traditional listed markets.  While NYFIX Millennium has the capability
          to instantly  match orders entered in the system,  a key attraction is
          its ability to let unmatched  orders  travel in real-time  through the
          NYFIX network to the exchange or market center of the traders' choice.

     o    EASE OF USE AND SEAMLESS  INTEGRATION.  NYFIX Millennium is accessible
          from the trader's existing order management system or trading station,
          and automatically  integrates the flow between customer orders,  NYFIX
          Millennium and execution reports.  While competitors generally need to
          install  a  dedicated   terminal  or   application   and  establish  a
          distribution  network,  NYFIX  Millennium can leverage the operational
          NYFIX distribution  network without the need for additional  dedicated
          or specialized screen installations. Traders do not have to change the
          way they enter  orders,  which we  believe  eliminates  a  significant
          barrier  to  entry  and  further  contributes  to  the  efficiency  of
          straight-through processing.


OUR STRATEGY

Our goal is to become the leading provider of real-time  electronic trade entry,
routing and execution  solutions to the global financial services  industry.  We
consistently  monitor the industry to analyze and  determine  an  efficient  and
effective schedule for new product  introductions,  marketing and organizational
growth  initiatives in order to meet the needs of the changing markets.  We plan
to:

     o    INCREASE THE NUMBER OF  PARTICIPANTS IN THE NYFIX NETWORK AND CONTINUE
          TO EXPAND  THE  SUITE OF  PRODUCTS  AND  SERVICES  AVAILABLE  TO NYFIX
          Customers. To further increase our subscription based revenues and our
          orderflow  base, we plan to focus our sales and  marketing  efforts on
          connecting  not only  sellside  broker-dealers  but also  buyside  and
          international  exchanges  to the NYFIX  network.  We will  continue to
          address the  requirements of the trading  community by introducing new
          core and complimentary applications, including advanced analytical and
          risk management applications, OTC services,  multi-currency facilities
          across our product line, stock allocation and clearing  services.  The
          enhancement  of our current  product line,  along with the addition of
          new products,  will help us increase our presence in the institutional
          marketplace  and allow us to sell higher  margin  products to existing
          customers.  We  plan  to  continue  to  develop  and  own  all  of the
          underlying  intellectual  property rights associated with our existing
          and future products.

     o    DEVELOP  TRANSACTION  REVENUE STREAMS IN NYFIX  MILLENNIUM.  The large
          quantity of orderflow processed through the NYFIX network has uniquely
          positioned NYFIX Millennium to develop  transaction-based  revenue. We
          are  developing  transaction  revenue  streams in NYFIX  Millennium by
          focusing on  generating a critical  mass of  orderflow  from the NYFIX
          network to NYFIX Millennium.

     o    DEVELOP  TRANSACTION  REVENUE  STREAMS  FROM  OUR  ELECTRONIC  TRADING
          INFRASTRUCTURE  AND  TECHNOLOGIES.   As  the  markets  converge,   the
          formation  of NYFIX  Transaction  Services  enables us to  introduce a
          number of offerings competing  effectively with and replacing the role
          of  certain  brokers  in  certain  target  segments.  In some areas of
          international  and to some  degree  domestic  correspondent  brokerage
          business,  we can  effectively  compete for business with little or no
          conflict with our existing client base. In the correspondent brokerage
          business,  one  brokerage  firm  generally  services a much smaller or
          specialized  brokerage firm and charges a transaction  based per share
          fee for providing  access to exchange  executions.  As the markets are
          becoming  completely  automated,  providing  customers  with effective
          desktop order capturing and electronic  access  technology is emerging
          as the most important  marketing  parameter.  In December 2001,  NYFIX
          acquired  an  existing  NASD  broker-dealer  and former  member of the
          Chicago Stock Exchange to expedite NYFIX Transaction Services becoming
          a broker-dealer.  With its membership  application  currently  pending
          with the NASD,  NYFIX  Transaction  Services  will be able to commence
          charging transaction fees once it obtains its broker-dealer status. In
          addition, in March 2002, NYFIX announced it had entered

                                        7
<PAGE>

          into  an  equity  partnership  with  a  Madrid,  Spain-based  company,
          EuroLink  Network,  Inc. EuroLink will distribute the Company's equity
          products  and  services to the  European  marketplace,  primarily on a
          transaction fee basis.

     o    ESTABLISH AND EXPAND  ORDERFLOW  THROUGH NYFIX MILLENNIUM AND LEVERAGE
          STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS. We plan to further leverage the cooperation of
          our equity and strategic partners to increase  transaction revenues in
          NYFIX  Millennium.  This  cooperation  includes  automatic  and manual
          submission of orderflow to NYFIX Millennium,  leveraging their trading
          expertise in explaining and developing  electronic  methods to address
          inefficiencies  in the current  market and  developing  and supporting
          suitable marketing strategies. The equity partners in NYFIX Millennium
          include ABN Amro,  Deutsche Bank,  Lehman  Brothers,  Morgan  Stanley,
          Alliance Capital Management (formerly Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co.),
          Societe Generale,  UBS Warburg,  Wachovia  Securities  (formerly First
          Union Investors),  Lab Morgan Corporation  (formerly J.P. Morgan &amp;
          Co. and Chase H&amp;Q) and Bank of America.

     o    EXPAND THE UNIVERSE OF  SECURITIES  BEING TRADED  THROUGH OUR NETWORK.
          The NYFIX network and NYFIX Millennium  matching engine can be used to
          trade and match basically any financial  instrument,  from equities to
          futures,  commodities  or  other  derivative  instruments.  We plan to
          expand our presence in OTC,  futures and options  trading.  We plan to
          increase our market share in  international  markets by expanding  our
          direct  connectivity to more international  exchanges in both equities
          and derivatives.

     o    CONTINUE TO PROTECT OUR CUSTOMERS' ROLES IN THE  DISTRIBUTION  MARKET.
          Many  market  observers   believe  that  equity  markets  will  become
          completely  electronic.  The  fear of a  diminishing  role and loss of
          revenues has caused the  broker-dealer  community to largely  withhold
          support  for any  market  modernization  system  that can be  accessed
          directly  by  buyside  institutions  and  other  investors.  It  is an
          important element of our strategy to introduce our business model in a
          manner that does not ultimately  threaten our  customers'  role in the
          distribution  channel.  We believe  this  strategy  provides us with a
          significant  advantage  over our  competitors  whose  initiatives  may
          ultimately eliminate the broker from the trading process.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

THE NYFIX NETWORK

The NYFIX  Network  provides  a central  electronic  infrastructure  that  links
buyside   institutions  and  sellside  brokers  with  various  execution  venues
utilizing the FIX protocol.  Built in late 1997, the NYFIX Network  provides our
customers  with global  connectivity  for trade order  routing  through a single
dedicated  circuit into the NYFIX Network.  Access to the NYFIX Network  private
order routing and financial information communications infrastructure is offered
to our customers on both a subscription and a transaction basis and is supported
by large-scale  redundant data centers.  All of the Company's  subsidiaries  and
affiliates   utilize  the  NYFIX   Network  as  their   central   communications
infrastructure.

The NYFIX Network currently  includes over 1,500 circuits and alternative routes
to connect  sellside and buyside  institutions,  as well as a number of domestic
and international  exchanges,  buyside networks,  ATSs and ECNs specified in the
table which follows.


                                       8
<PAGE>


Domestic Exchanges                NYSE                             Pacific Stock Exchange
                                  Amex                             Nasdaq
                                  Boston Stock Exchange            CME (Chicago Mercantile
                                  Chicago Stock Exchange            Exchange)
                                  Philadelphia Stock Exchange      CBOT (Chicago Board of
                                                                    Trade)

International Exchanges*          Liffe (London International      HKFE (Hong Kong Futures
                                   Financial Futures and            Exchange)
                                   Options Exchange)               SFE (Sydney Futures
                                  Deutsche Bourse Xetra/Eurex       Exchange)
                                  Matif (Marche A Terme            TIFFE (Tokyo International
                                   d'Instruments                    Financial Futures Exchange)
                                   Financiers)/Monep               OSE (Osaka Securities
                                  SIMEX (Singapore                  Exchange)
                                   International Monetary          TSE (Toronto Stock Exchange)
                                   Exchange)                       KSE (Korea Stock Exchange)
                                                                   Euronext
                                                                   OM

Buyside Networks                  Macgregor                        Reuters
                                  Thompson TradeRoute              Royalblue
                                  MFN (Merrin Financial            Autex
                                  Network)                         Versus Technologies
                                  Bridge Information Systems       Bloomberg
                                  The Longview Group               Triad
                                                                   Transaction Network Services

ATSs/ECNs                         NYFIX Millennium                 REDIBook ECN
                                  Archipelago                      Instinet
                                  Bloomberg Tradebook              POSIT
                                                                   Island ECN

Allocation Delivery Systems       ADP                              FIX Allocation
                                  Pershing                         Wexford
                                  OASYS                            Rolfe &amp; Nolan
                                  Sungard Phase III                GL Net
                                                                   Beta Systems


* While we have not yet deployed  our own  circuits in all of the  international
exchanges,  we, at a minimum,  offer  interface  systems  to each  international
exchange.


NYFIX TRADING PRODUCTS

We provide an integrated  portfolio of modular desktop trading  applications and
exchange  floor  automation  and  exchange  access  applications  for trading in
domestic and international  equities,  futures and options. We offer both trader
workstation  products  and  exchange  system  products as outlined in the tables
which follow.

                                       9
<PAGE>



    TRADER WORKSTATIONS:                   PRODUCT DESCRIPTION:                    TARGET CUSTOMER:

FIXTrader Workstation             Complete order management and routing       Institutional brokerage
                                  system                                      equity traders

Order Book Management System      Real-time order management system for       Institutional brokerage
(broker module)                   derivative instruments including            derivatives traders
                                  futures and options

Nasdaq Agency Workstation         Nasdaq Level II workstation electronic      Institutional brokerage
                                  order entry and routing to Nasdaq           equity traders
                                  liquidity sources

TradeWatch                        Integrates data from individual             Institutional  brokerage
                                  FIXTraders and provides monitoring of       traders and risk managers
                                  the entire trading desk's positions in
                                  real-time

E-Blotter                         Real-time equity order management system    Smaller brokerage buyside
                                                                              and money management traders

International Universal           Enables browser-based order entry           International brokerage
Browser Front-end                 and routing service for both                buyside and money
                                  equities and derivatives on a               management traders
                                  global basis


Market Looks System               Enables digital transmission of            Institutional brokerage
(ImageViewer Module)              real-time "looks" from an exchange         equity traders
                                  floor to upstairs traders

Market Data Server: P&amp;L       Profit and loss tracking and volume        Institutional brokerage
Module, VWAP                      weighted average price execution           equity traders
                                  capability

Strong Box                        Online Data Retention &amp; Trade          Institutional brokerage
                                  Research Tool. A browser-based trade       firms and trading and
                                  history research tool that enables         compliance departments
                                  customers to migrate from paper to
                                  electronic storage according to SEC
                                  Rule 17a requirements


                             10
<PAGE>


  EXCHANGE SYSTEMS:              PRODUCT DESCRIPTION:            TARGET CUSTOMER:

Market Looks System        Enables digital transmission of       Exchange floor
(floor look module)        real-time looks from an exchange      brokers and clerks
                           floor to upstairs traders

MobileBroker               Wireless handheld that enables        Exchange floor
                           order management and digital          brokers
                           transmission of real-time looks
                           from the specialist post or
                           crowd to upstairs traders

FloorReport                Exchange floor booth order            Exchange floor
                           management and routing system         brokers and clerks

BreakWatch                 Online trade comparison system        Exchange floor
                           for identifying intra-day trade       clerks/data entry staff
                           errors and breaks

Exchange Access Products   Translation to and from various       Brokerage firms
                           exchange protocols to FIX protocol


TRADER WORKSTATION PRODUCTS

Our trader workstations provide order routing to a variety of liquidity sources,
including  major  regional  exchanges,  ECNs and ATSs. The  workstations  enable
traders to monitor and manage the flow and execution of equity  orders.  Next to
each product, indicated in parentheses, is the company(s) that primarily markets
each particular product or service.

FIXTRADER WORKSTATION (NYFIX USA, NYFIX MILLENNIUM, NYFIX TRANSACTION SERVICES,
EUROLINK)

Our FIXTrader system provides a complete order management  solution for upstairs
traders that allows the  electronic  entry and routing of orders and  executions
between buyside  institutions,  sales and block desks and exchange floor booths.
Traders enter orders quickly and efficiently  through a Touchpad(R),  or a mouse
and  keyboard  configuration,  which are then  routed to the  appropriate  order
execution venue in seconds,  with completed  executions  routed back in the same
efficient manner. With the financial  industry's adoption of FIX as the standard
protocol  for  communicating  electronically,  FIXTrader  offers an easy way for
firms  to gain  FIX  compliance.  FIXTrader  enables  firms  to  receive  orders
electronically  from the  buyside,  as well as  connect to back  office  systems
helping firms achieve straight-through processing.

FUTURES AND OPTIONS OBMS (NYFIX OVERSEAS)

Our  Futures and Options  OBMS  offers  traders the ability to enter,  route and
manage  orders  and  executions  in  real-time.  Global  order  routing  between
different  international  branches  of  the  same  firm  and  the  major  global
exchanges,  both open outcry and electronic,  is supported by this comprehensive
system. OBMS provides real-time  ticketless order capture,  global order routing
with interfaces to exchange  supported systems and  user-friendly  24-hour order
management in one complete open system.

NASDAQ AGENCY WORKSTATION (NYFIX USA, NYFIX TRANSACTION SERVICE, EUROLINK)

Our Nasdaq Agency Workstation  enables electronic order entry and routing to all
Nasdaq liquidity sources.  This system integrates with our customers'  FIXTrader
workstation,  giving users the ability to trade listed and OTC securities from a
single terminal.  The functionality of our Nasdaq Agency Workstation  includes a
central order blotter for managing and tracking order status, complete recapping
functionality,  average price calculation,  filters for easy viewing, convenient
allocation  and archiving  capability.  Users can access  buyside  institutions,
market  makers,  exchange  brokers,  major and regional  exchange  systems and a
variety of ATSs for streamlined order and execution  routing.  Our Nasdaq Agency
Workstation is fully FIX compliant.

                             11
<PAGE>


TRADEWATCH (NYFIX USA)

Our TradeWatch product equips head traders and risk managers with an application
to keep  appraised  of all trading  desk  positions at the trader's or manager's
firm.  TradeWatch   consolidates  and  integrates   information  from  FIXTrader
workstations  in real-time and allows a head trader or risk manager to obtain an
essential overview of all trading activities.

E-BLOTTER (NYFIX USA, NYFIX TRANSACTION SERVICES, NYFIX MILLENNIUM, EUROLINK)

Our E-Blotter system is a browser driven, real-time U.S. equity order management
system designed for the broker-dealer community. E-Blotter uses a central screen
to track all initiated and executed orders, enabling users to view all positions
at a glance.  E-Blotter's  functionality  includes a central  order  blotter for
managing and tracking  order  status,  recapping  functionality,  average  price
calculation,  filters for easy  viewing,  convenient  allocation  and  archiving
capability. E-Blotter is Order Audit Trail System (OATS), Automated Confirmation
Transaction (ACT) and FIX compliant.

INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSAL BROWSER FRONT-END (NYFIX OVERSEAS)

Our International  Browser front-end  facilitates all aspects of global equities
and derivatives trading,  including multi-currency  capability for price marking
of international  trades.  While we already sold this front-end to several large
global  brokerage  operations  for their internal  deployment,  we commenced the
distribution of this product through the NYFIX network during 2001.

MARKET LOOKS SYSTEM (IMAGEVIEWER MODULE) (NYFIX USA)

Our Market  Looks System is comprised  of two  complementary  software  modules:
ImageViewer for the upstairs trader  workstations and FloorLook for the exchange
floor booths.  ImageViewer  enables traders to electronically  receive real-time
quotes on stocks  directly from the exchange  floor.  Our Market Looks System is
operated  by a floor  clerk  located  at the  member's  booth or through a NYFIX
Handheld wireless computer scanning  handwritten quote slips, called looks, into
a scanner.  These scanned looks are instantly transmitted to upstairs traders at
their  workstations in multiple sites and remote offices.  Implementation of the
system  results in the  elimination  of  repetitive  telephone  traffic  between
upstairs  traders and floor  staff.  Our Market  Looks System helps firms reduce
errors and disseminate information more efficiently.

MARKET  DATA  SERVER:   P&amp;L  MODULE,   VWAP  CAPABILITY  (NYFIX  USA,  NYFIX
TRANSACTION SERVICES)

We are in the  process of  building a market  data  server  process,  which will
enable  the   distribution   of  real-time   market  data  to  customers.   This
functionality  will be leveraged to deliver on-demand updates of profit and loss
information to FIXTrader  blotters,  as well as live updates of  volume-weighted
average price (VWAP) information, for selected securities. In addition, handheld
devices on the floor of the NYSE will be able to request  recent  time and sales
information,  as well as  volume-weighted  average  price  data.  As part of the
market  data  server  initiative,  we have  applied to the NYSE for market  data
vendor privileges.

STRONG BOX (NYFIX USA)

The Strong Box Online Data  Retention and Trade Research Tool is an optical disc
storage  solution  that  meets  SEC  Rule  17a  storage,  access  and  retention
requirements  for  trade  data.  Strong  Box is  supported  by a  user-friendly,
browser-based,  trade history research tool. We anticipate that this application
will remove a  significant  burden from our  customers,  as they will be able to
migrate from paper to electronic storage.

EXCHANGE SYSTEMS

Our exchange  systems are comprised of stationary  floor booth  applications and
wireless  handheld  systems  for  order  management  and  routing  of looks  and
real-time market information.  Our exchange systems also provide access services
to exchange  provided  execution  facilities.  We streamline  customer access by
providing  real-time  conversion  from the FIX protocol to exchange  proprietary
access protocols.

                                       12
<PAGE>


MARKET LOOKS SYSTEM (NYFIX USA)

Our Market Looks System enables member firms to get real-time  quotes, or looks,
on stocks directly from the exchange floor to the firms' upstairs  trading desk.
Our Market Looks System helps firms reduce  errors and  disseminate  information
more  efficiently.  Our  NYFIX  FloorLook  product  transmits  real-time  images
directly to the trading  community from the  stationary  floor booth systems and
wireless handheld systems.

MOBILEBROKER (NYFIX USA)

Our  MobileBroker   wireless   handheld  allows  floor  brokers  to  effectively
communicate  with floor exchange booths and upstairs trading desks regardless of
their physical location on the floor of a stock exchange.  The handheld computer
transmits  looks from the floor  broker  positioned  near a  specialist  post to
upstairs  traders,   thereby  greatly  improving   communications  and  flow  of
information  from the market to the trading  desk.  The NYFIX  Handheld  product
conforms to Rule 123 and is designed to be compatible with the NYSE's  reporting
systems.

FLOORREPORT (NYFIX USA)

Our FloorReport system provides brokerage firms with a complete electronic order
management system for exchange trading and floor operations.  Complete trade and
execution information is available at a glance. The system allows firms to track
the status of orders and  time-stamped  printed  tickets,  reduce  paperwork and
enable  booth  staff  to  manage  orders  more  effectively,   increasing  floor
productivity. FloorReport reduces errors and simplifies floor operations through
such features as real-time average price  calculation and automatic  tracking of
trade execution status. FloorReport is both Rule 123 and FIX compliant.

BREAKWATCH (NYFIX USA)

Our  BreakWatch  product is post-trade  product that  identifies  internal trade
breaks,  or  errors,  on an  intra-day  basis,  thus  protecting  firms from the
exposure of costly trading errors.  BreakWatch provides important  functionality
in the  trade  reporting  process,  enabling  firms to  electronically  transmit
written  execution report  information to Online Comparison System (OCS) as well
as comparing  verbal  execution  reports from  FloorReport  with written reports
transmitted to OCS.

EXCHANGE ACCESS PRODUCTS (NYFIX USA)

We developed  and offer  software to enable our  customers to  communicate  with
various exchange provided execution facilities.  Many firms use systems that are
based on legacy  technology,  as well as protocols used by other  exchanges.  To
simplify access to all trading  venues,  we developed  translation  applications
that enable our customers to access FIX protocol from legacy systems,  including
DOT, which is used by the NYSE and Amex.

NYFIX  MILLENNIUM  (NYFIX  MILLENNIUM,  NYFIX USA, NYFIX  TRANSACTION  SERVICES,
EUROLINK)

NYFIX Millennium is designed to offer users access to multiple  liquidity points
through a single  terminal,  complete  anonymity and  invisibility,  intelligent
order  routing  and  the  opportunity   for  price   improvement  and  liquidity
enhancement.  NYFIX  Millennium  provides an efficient  way for major  financial
institutions   and  traders  to  obtain  the  best  match  available  for  their
transactions in the listed equities marketplace. NYFIX Millennium resides in the
NYFIX network and offers matching of the following two categories of orders:

     o    Pass-through   orders  are  those  orders  that  pass  through   NYFIX
          Millennium in route to another  execution  venue,  typically the NYSE.
          The pass-through  feature provides the trader with real-time  exposure
          to orders that reside in NYFIX Millennium, which can lead to potential
          price improvement and liquidity enhancement.

     o    Conditional  orders are anonymous and invisible  orders that reside in
          the NYFIX Millennium


                                       13
<PAGE>

          matching engine.  Orders are electronically pegged to the price of the
          underlying  market  center  of  the  trader's  choice,  such  as  NYSE
          bid/offer  or  national  best bid price or offer  (NBBO).  To  attract
          matches,  the trader can offer a small price  improvement  while still
          trading between the bid and offer offered in the underlying market. In
          addition,  to optimize on the  trading  outcome,  the trader can put a
          number of restrictions  on an order to temporarily  suspend such order
          automatically  when  unfavorable  conditions  occur and add conditions
          designed to improve trading  results.  Examples of such conditions are
          size of  execution  per price  increment,  maximum  tolerable  spread,
          maximum price tolerance from last execution in the market, high or low
          price limits and other trade restrictions.

The  scope of most  ECNs and ATSs is  limited  to  matching  conditional  orders
against one another. A significant advantage the NYFIX Millennium model has over
these  competing  ECNs and  ATSs is its  ability  to also  execute  against  the
pass-through  orders being routed through the NYFIX network.  This increases the
access to liquidity and the likelihood of successful trade matches.

NYFIX  Millennium  is currently  implementing  the second phase of its marketing
strategy.  The first phase focused  converting  the large existing NYFIX network
orderflow to liquidity available for executions in NYFIX Millennium.  The second
phase focuses on increasing the usage of NYFIX  Millennium  conditional  orders.
NYFIX  Millennium  is  aggressively  marketing  the ATS to a  variety  of firms,
including   traditional   broker   dealers,   market   makers  and   statistical
arbitrageurs.  Through the interaction of the system's various order types, such
as conditional and pass-through, and continued growth of the NYFIX network share
volume,  we believe that NYFIX Millennium is able to provide superior results in
trade  execution  quality for  existing  NYFIX  customers,  as well as new NYFIX
Millennium participants.

SALES AND MARKETING

Our sales operation employs 52 people and is structured in four teams, including
customer sales,  account  management,  project  management and central help desk
operations.  The manager  and senior  members of each team have been with us for
three years or more and have a track-record of  team-building,  successful sales
delivery and on-going customer operations support.

We  have  been  experiencing  a  shortening  of  sales  cycles  as the  industry
increasingly  employs electronic trading technology and new regulations  require
intra-day electronic compliance reporting.  For new accounts, the sales cycle is
generally one to six months with add-on sales of additional services to existing
clients  being  shorter.  We  generally  provide our  products  and  services on
three-year  subscription agreements with automatic annual renewals at the end of
the initial term.

We focus on developing  customer  acceptance of our product lines with access to
general  upgrades rather than individual  client  customization.  Our sales team
works closely with our product  development team and several of our products and
enhancements have been developed based on user-group consensus.

We maintain an in-house marketing department covering all aspects of exhibition,
collateral  marketing  materials planning and production.  We focus primarily on
direct  marketing  efforts  designed  to reach our target  segment of  customers
rather than mass marketing,  which we believe  results in a  significantly  more
effective return on our marketing investment.  In connection with the broadening
of industry awareness of NYFIX Millennium, we may support certain mass marketing
initiatives in  conjunction  with promoting the benefits of the ATS to a greater
audience.

TECHNOLOGY

Our  technology  is  designed  to  meet  our   customers'   business  needs  for
consistently  available,  expandable,  and  cost  efficient  infrastructure  and
software.  We apply what we believe to be industry best  practices in areas such
as  strategic  planning,  implementation  partnerships,   operating  procedures,
documentation  and  application  development  methodology.   Our  infrastructure
technologies  provide market participants with highly reliable  connectivity and
liquidity  pools,  while  our  software  applications  provide  an  easy  to use
integrated suite of desktop applications and exchange floor systems.

                                       14
<PAGE>


Throughout our operating history, we have experienced excellent retention of our
technical employees.  We believe that this has enabled us to attract and develop
staff,  managers and project  leaders with  extensive  technical  and  brokerage
industry experience.

INFRASTRUCTURE TECHNOLOGIES

Our  underlying  infrastructure  is  implemented  to a modular or building block
standard.  A  building  block  standard  consists  of  the  amount  of  storage,
processing and network capacity  necessary to support a set of customers.  As we
add  customers to our system,  building  blocks can be easily  inserted into our
architecture to accommodate  continued  network growth and we expect the average
cost per  customer to  decline.  Our  building  block  architecture  relies upon
advanced  technology   standards,   including  storage  area  networking,   high
availability  code and metropolitan  area networking using fiber optic cable. We
believe that we are a technology  leader in our industry in that we maintain two
fully active  production  data  centers,  either of which can support all of our
current production requirements, providing 100% real-time redundancy. Later this
year, we expect to implement a storage side area network using dense  wavelength
division  multiplexing.  Dense wavelength division  multiplexing allows multiple
channels  and  protocols of data to run over a single pair of fiber optic cables
and will  enable us to increase  capacity  between  our data  centers  without a
significant  increase in cost.  Our systems  and data  centers are  continuously
monitored  by an automated  system that logs the  performance  of  communication
lines, equipment and systems.

To  achieve   the   highest   level  of   availability,   we  rely  on  multiple
telecommunication  carriers  for data  transport  between  core data centers and
customers,  including AT&amp;T, Sprint, Worldcom,  Metromedia Fiber Networks and
Verizon. Our data volume is sufficient to allow us to diversify across carriers,
decreasing  our  reliance  on any  single  telecommunication  service  provider,
without losing the benefit of economies of scale.

Our equipment and systems are co-located in two independent Comdisco,  Inc. data
center  facilities  in Carlstadt and North Bergen,  New Jersey.  By  co-locating
equipment,  we derive operating economies while obtaining the highest quality of
service available in a physical plant.  Comdisco's  around-the-clock  facilities
are protected by  state-of-the-art  fire suppression and heating ventilation air
conditioning (HVAC) systems and have multiple, uninterruptible sources of power,
including  backup  generators  and fully  redundant  power  distribution  units.
Security   personnel,   procedures  and  video   surveillance   protect  against
unauthorized physical access to our equipment.

APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT

We work closely with our  customers  and  business  partners to develop  managed
software  services that will address  unfulfilled  market needs.  We establish a
business  case for each  potential  new  offering and major  software  update to
ensure that any new  initiative  meets  strategic,  operational,  technical  and
economic  criteria.  We have implemented  methodology  tools and procedures that
have  enhanced  our ability to author  quality  products and  applications.  Our
development  team uses  Rational  software  tools to  formalize  work  plans and
coordinate highly complex development tasks.

Our  software is authored to take  advantage  of the FIX  protocol  and has been
written in object oriented ANSI C++ language, which can run on various operating
system platforms, including UNIX and Microsoft Windows. We maintain a library of
reusable  program  code and use  naming  conventions,  which  facilitates  rapid
application  development and provides a homogenous and familiar look and feel to
our customers.  Our  standardized  approach  greatly enhances the quality of our
programs  and  products.   Our  quality  control   department  has  a  dedicated
laboratory,  which simulates the NYFIX system.  All of our new product  releases
are  tested  under  load  and  stress   conditions  using  automated  tools  for
reliability,  interoperability and defects. Our sales support, customer training
and technical  engineering group provide ongoing feedback from our customer base
to our product development team and quality control  department.  This allows us
to  continuously  refine and enhance our products to better serve our customers'
needs.


                                       15
<PAGE>

COMPETITION

The electronic order management and delivery industry is highly  competitive and
constantly evolving through technological and regulatory change. Our competition
varies widely and we encounter  different  categories of  competitors to each of
our product and  service  offerings.  We also face  competition  from  potential
customers who choose to maintain their own  infrastructure and develop their own
in-house proprietary order management software systems.

Competition  within our  industry  is based on a variety of  factors,  including
product features,  product  functionality  and performance;  product quality and
reliability;  price; and technical  support and customer  service.  Based on our
experience, we believe that we compete effectively in each of these categories.

          We face competition in the following three areas:

     o    NETWORK  SERVICES.  Transaction  Network  Services and Global Crossing
          Ltd.  (who  recently  filed for  bankruptcy  under  Chapter  11 and is
          undergoing a restructuring)  are large fiber optic networks capable of
          carrying  multiple  types  of  financial  information.  Both of  these
          companies  provide basic  connectivity  offerings  for order  routing,
          however,  we believe  the NYFIX  network  provides  more  value  added
          connectivity,  with its embedded FIX  protocol  communication  and its
          sophisticated execution provider links.

     o    EXCHANGE  FLOORS.   We  are  a  leading  provider  of  exchange  floor
          automation  technology,  including  stationary  and  wireless  trading
          technologies.  While we have  technology  deployed and offer access to
          numerous  exchanges,  our  most  significant  presence  is in the U.S.
          listed equity market.  Member firms operate  approximately 1500 booths
          on the NYSE.  Most of these  firms are in the  process  of  automating
          their  floor  operations  and to date our  systems  automate a leading
          percentage of the member firms and installed  more than 500 stationary
          systems and deployed  over 250 handheld  devices on the NYSE  exchange
          floor.  The NYSE itself also offers floor  technology  to member firms
          and  there  are  several  other  smaller  competitors  in  this  area,
          including Tradeware.

     o    DESKTOP PRODUCTS. We face competition from vendors who produce desktop
          solutions  for  traders  who are not on the floor,  including  several
          vendors  in  listed  equities  such  as  Brass,  Royalblue  Group  and
          Bloomberg.  These competitors either have or are building data centers
          for a service  bureau  offering  and have the  ability to pass  listed
          orderflow through their systems to the exchange floors,  including the
          NYSE.  We believe that we compete  effectively  with these  vendors by
          offering  easy-to-use,  seamless  integration  with our exchange floor
          products and extensive electronic market connectivity.

NYFIX Millennium faces competition from traditional stock exchanges,  other ATSs
and ECNs offering a variety of execution services and methods,  some focusing on
retail orderflow rather than institutional orderflow.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND OTHER PROPERTY RIGHTS

The  Company   maintains  a  program  of  obtaining  and  protecting   U.S.  and
international  patents and trademarks.  The Company believes that the success of
its business is not  materially  dependent  on the  existence or duration of any
patent,  group of patents or  trademarks.  The  Company's  trademarks  should be
available for the Company's use as long as it desires.

Despite the precautions we take to protect our intellectual  property rights, it
is  possible  that  third  parties  may  copy or  otherwise  obtain  and use our
proprietary  technology  without  authorization  or otherwise  infringe upon our
proprietary  rights.  It is also possible  that third parties may  independently
develop  technologies  similar to ours.  It may be  difficult  for us to prevent
unauthorized use of our intellectual  property and we cannot assure you that the
steps we take will  prevent  misappropriation  of our  technology.  In addition,
litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our  intellectual  property
rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the

                                       16
<PAGE>

validity and scope of the  proprietary  rights of others,  or to defend  against
claims of  infringement  or invalidity.  Litigation,  whether or not successful,
could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources.

We may in the future receive notices of claims of infringement of other parties'
proprietary  rights.  We  cannot  assure  you that  claims  of  infringement  or
invalidity,  or claims for indemnification  resulting from infringement  claims,
will not be asserted or prosecuted against us. Any such claims,  with or without
merit, could be time consuming to defend,  result in costly  litigation,  divert
management's  attention  and  resources  or require us to enter into  royalty or
licensing  agreements.  We cannot  assure you that these  royalties  or licenses
would be available on reasonable terms, if at all.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

The U.S.  securities  industry  is subject to  extensive  regulation  under both
federal and state laws.  In addition,  the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission
("SEC"), the NASD, other self-regulatory organizations,  commonly known as SROs,
such as the various stock exchanges,  and other regulatory bodies, such as state
securities   commissions,   require  strict  compliance  with  their  rules  and
regulations.  As a matter of public policy,  regulatory  bodies are charged with
safeguarding  the integrity of the  securities and other  financial  markets and
with protecting the interests of investors  participating in those markets,  not
protecting  creditors or stockholders of broker-dealers.  Companies that operate
in the securities industry are subject to regulation  concerning many aspects of
their business,  including trade practices,  capital structure, record retention
and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Failure to comply with any
of these laws, rules or regulations could result in censure,  fine, the issuance
of  cease-and-desist  orders  or  the  suspension  or  disqualification  of  our
directors,  officers or employees. Neither we nor any of our directors, officers
or employees are currently subject to any cease-and-desist  orders,  suspensions
or disqualifications  under the rules of any of these regulatory  organizations.
An  adverse  ruling in the  future  against  us or our  directors,  officers  or
employees,  including censure or suspension,  could result in us, our directors,
officers  and  other  employees  being  required  to pay a  substantial  fine or
settlement, and could result in their suspension or expulsion.

The  regulatory  environment  in which we operate  is  subject  to  change.  Our
profitability  may  be  adversely  affected  as  a  result  of  new  or  revised
legislation  or   regulations   imposed  by  the  SEC,  other  U.S.  or  foreign
governmental  regulatory  authorities  or the  NASD.  We may  also be  adversely
affected by changes in the  interpretation  or  enforcement of existing laws and
rules by these  governmental  authorities and the NASD.  Additional  regulation,
changes in existing laws and rules, or changes in interpretations or enforcement
of existing  laws and rules often  directly  affect the method of operation  and
profitability  of  securities  firms.  We cannot  predict  what  effect any such
changes might have.

Our  business,  both directly and  indirectly,  relies on the Internet and other
electronic  communications  gateways.  We  intend  to  expand  our use of  these
gateways.  To date,  the use of the  Internet  has  been  relatively  free  from
regulatory  restraints.  However,  the SEC,  SROs and  states are  beginning  to
address  regulatory  issues  that may  arise in  connection  with the use of the
Internet.  Accordingly,  new regulations or interpretations  may be adopted that
constrain our own and our customers  abilities to transact  business through the
Internet or other electronic communications gateways.

New regulations governing the recording and transmission of orders to and on the
NYSE floor were adopted in early 2001. These  regulations are known as Rule 123.
The first phase of Rule 123 requires all orders received on the NYSE floor to be
input into an  electronic  order  management  system for better  monitoring  and
tracking of trades. The second phase of Rule 123 requires all orders sent to the
NYSE to be sent  electronically.  Rule 123  required  that all NYSE member firms
adopt electronic order management systems by September 10, 2001. We believe that
Rule 123  regulations  will have a positive  impact on our  business  because we
already  produce  systems  capable  of  meeting  and  exceeding  the  regulatory
requirements,  with  many  additional  features  designed  to  reduce  error and
maximize customer efficiency.

                                       17
<PAGE>

PRODUCT PRODUCTION

The Company designs, develops and produces its proprietary software and hardware
products at its facility in Stamford,  Connecticut. The Company is not dependent
upon any one  supplier,  vendor or  subcontractor  for any of its  manufacturing
components.

MAJOR CUSTOMERS

Information about the Company's  dependence on major customers relating to sales
and accounts receivable is contained in "Note 10 - Major Customers" appearing in
the consolidated financial statements as noted in the Index appearing under Item
14 (a) (1).

EMPLOYEES

As of March 15, 2002 the Company had 178 full-time  employees,  including  NYFIX
Millennium, which became an 80% owned subsidiary effective February 1, 2002. Our
employees are not  represented  by any  collective  bargaining  organization  or
covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  We believe that our relationships
with our employees are good.

RISK FACTORS: FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

The management discussion and analysis and the information provided elsewhere in
this Form 10-K contain forward looking statements regarding the Company's future
plans,  objectives  and  expected  performance.  Those  statements  are based on
assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable,  but are subject to a wide
range of risks  and  uncertainties,  and a number  of  factors  could  cause the
Company's  actual  results  to differ  materially  from those  expressed  in the
forward  looking  statements  referred to above.  These factors  include,  among
others, the Company's ability to further penetrate the financial services market
with a full range of the Company's products and the highly competitive market in
which the Company operates.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Company maintains its executive offices and production  facilities in leased
premises at 333 Ludlow Street,  Stamford, CT 06902 and its European Sales Office
in London,  England. The Company's U.S.  headquarters  consists of approximately
13,800 square feet at a current annual rental of $352,000,  expiring on February
28, 2005,  and  approximately  7,100 square feet at a current  annual  rental of
$271,000,  expiring on May 31, 2005. The Company's London office lease, expiring
on June 6, 2009,  is for  approximately  5,500 square feet at a yearly rental of
$120,000,  excluding local taxes. The Company sublets a portion of the space for
an annual  rental  income of $33,000,  excluding  local taxes.  The Company also
rents  office  space at 100 Wall  Street,  New York,  NY 10005 of  approximately
17,000  square feet for an annual  rental of $599,000,  expiring on November 29,
2005,  and 4,800 square feet for an annual rental of $145,000,  expiring on July
23, 2005.  The Company  subleases  half of its space at 100 Wall Street to NYFIX
Millennium  on a  month-to-month  basis.  The  Company  leases  office  space of
approximately 2,900 square feet at 20 North Wacker Drive,  Chicago, IL 60606 for
an annual rental of $83,000.  The Company  leases office space of  approximately
2,700 square feet at 595 Market Street,  San  Francisco,  CA 94105 for an annual
rental of $78,000, expiring on December 31, 2004. We believe that the facilities
described above are adequate for our current needs.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

There are no material legal  proceedings  that are currently  pending or, to the
Company's knowledge, contemplated against the Company or to which it is a party.

                                       18
<PAGE>



ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY OWNERS

Not applicable.


                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

(A) MARKET INFORMATION
The Company's common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol
NYFX.  The  following  table  sets  forth the high and low sales  prices for the
common stock, for the periods presented, as reported by the Nasdaq.

PRICES OF COMMON STOCK
                                              High             Low
2001

First Quarter                             $     34.88      $   19.88
Second Quarter                            $     32.00      $   16.75
Third Quarter                             $     26.28      $   12.10
Fourth Quarter                            $     23.49      $   11.33

                                              High           Low
2000

First Quarter*                            $     43.67      $   14.17
Second Quarter                            $     44.38      $   20.69
Third Quarter                             $     46.31      $   29.63
Fourth Quarter                            $     45.81      $   18.00

*  Restated for 3 for 2 stock split in the form of a stock dividend effective
4/4/2000


(B) HOLDERS
At March 19, 2002 the records of the Company's  transfer  agent  indicated  that
there were 410 holders of record of the Company's common stock.

(C) DIVIDENDS
Shareholders of the Company's common stock are entitled to dividends if and when
declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally  available.  The Company
has not paid or declared any  dividends on any class of its capital  stock since
its  organization  and has no present  intention of paying cash dividends on its
common stock. The Company intends to utilize any earnings it may achieve for the
development of its business and for working capital purposes.


                                       19
<PAGE>

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


                                                                                Year Ended December 31,
                                                  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      2001             2000            1999              1998             1997
                                                      ----             ----            ----              ----             ----
Total revenues                                    $ 41,397,417     $ 23,980,167     $ 12,209,451     $  6,235,393      $  5,006,017
Gross profit                                      $ 32,066,145     $ 17,602,815     $  8,443,864     $  3,702,684      $  2,325,879
Earnings (loss) from operations                   $ 13,140,160     $  6,474,494     $  1,194,166     $ (2,226,337)     $ (2,712,109)
Net earnings (loss)                               $  8,135,924     $  5,676,427     $    960,419     $ (2,233,809)     $ (2,594,040)
Net earnings (loss) per common share:
      Basic                                       $       0.30     $       0.23     $        .04     $      (0.11)     $      (0.14)
      Diluted                                     $       0.29     $       0.21     $        .04     $      (0.11)     $      (0.14)

At year end:
Cash and cash equivalents                         $  4,967,537     $  4,866,629     $  1,565,649     $  3,948,004      $  2,141,307
Short-term investments                            $ 28,973,685             --               --               --                --
Working capital                                   $ 47,512,603     $  9,158,936     $  4,512,985     $  5,970,449      $  3,803,403
Property and equipment, net                       $ 14,366,097     $ 11,472,473     $  5,873,037     $  2,854,131      $  1,361,707
Total assets                                      $108,571,648     $ 57,558,350     $ 38,828,025     $ 12,997,519      $  7,547,263
Long-term debt, including current portion         $  1,500,784     $  3,822,919     $  2,500,000     $  1,800,000      $     93,564
Shareholders' equity                              $ 99,241,696     $ 42,227,734     $ 29,885,280     $  8,118,749      $  5,901,733


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations discusses the Company's consolidated financial statements, which have
been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities  and the disclosure of contingent  assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. On an on-going basis, management evaluates
its  estimates and  judgments,  including  those related to accounts  receivable
reserves,   investments,   long-lived  assets,   revenue  recognition,   product
enhancement  costs,  income  taxes  and  contingencies.   Management  bases  its
estimates and judgments on  historical  experience  and on various other factors
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which
form the basis for  making  judgments  about the  carrying  values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may
differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

Management  believes the following critical accounting  policies,  among others,
affect its more  significant  judgments and estimates used in the preparation of
its  consolidated  financial  statements.  For  a  detailed  discussion  on  the
application of these and other accounting  policies,  see Note 2 in the Notes to
the Consolidated  Financial  Statements in Item 14 of this Annual Report on Form
10-K.

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE RESERVES

The Company  continuously  monitors  collections and payments from our customers
and maintains a provision for estimated  credit losses based upon our historical
experience and any specific customer  collection issues that we have identified.
While  such  credit  losses  have   historically   been  within  the  provisions
established,  we cannot  guarantee  that we will continue to experience the same
credit loss rates that we have in the past.  If the  financial  condition of the
Company's  customers  were to  deteriorate,  resulting in an impairment of their
ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required.


                                       20
<PAGE>

INVESTMENTS

The Company holds an ownership interest in NYFIX Millennium, 50% at December 31,
2001, and 80% effective  February 1, 2002. The Company's  policy is to record an
investment  impairment  charge when it believes an investment has  experienced a
decline in value that is other than temporary.  Future adverse changes in market
conditions,  poor operating  results or a failure of the business model of NYFIX
Millennium  could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value
of the  investments,  thereby  possibly  requiring an  impairment  charge in the
future.

LONG-LIVED ASSETS

The Company periodically reviews the carrying value of our long-lived assets and
investments  for  continued  appropriateness.  This  review  is  based  upon our
projections  of  anticipated  future  cash  flows.  While  we  believe  that our
estimates of future cash flows are reasonable,  different  assumptions regarding
such cash flows could materially affect our evaluations.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

The  Company's  revenues  comprise  subscription,  sales  and  service  contract
revenue.  Sales are  generally  recorded  upon  shipment  of the  product to and
acceptance by customers. Sales revenue, which is comprised of software sales and
capital  equipment  sales,  is generated  primarily by sales to customers in the
futures,  options and currencies trading market.  Subscription revenue contracts
are primarily with brokerage  firms,  international  banks and global  exchanges
trading in equities,  and are  generally  for an initial  period of one to three
years with one to three year renewal periods. Subscription revenue is recognized
ratably over the life of the  subscription  agreements with customers and begins
once  installation is complete.  Revenue from service  contracts is comprised of
maintenance contracts for capital sales equipment and subscription equipment and
is recognized ratably over the period the services are performed. Amounts billed
in advance for service and subscription  contracts are deferred and reflected as
advance billings.

PRODUCT ENHANCEMENT COSTS

The Company's policy on product  enhancements costs determines the timing of our
recognition of certain  development  costs. In addition,  this policy determines
whether the cost is classified  as deferred  product  enhancements  costs on our
balance sheet or research and development expense. Management is required to use
professional judgment in determining whether development costs meet the criteria
for immediate expense or  capitalization,  as well as the determination of which
enhancements significantly enhance the functionality or significantly extend the
life of our products.  The  establishment of  technological  feasibility and the
ongoing assessment of recoverability of capitalized  software  development costs
require  judgment  by  management  with  respect  to certain  external  factors,
including  but not limited  to,  anticipated  future  gross  revenue,  estimated
economic  life,  customer  requirements  and  changes in software  and  hardware
technologies.

INCOME TAXES

The Company's income tax policy is to record the estimated future tax effects of
temporary  differences  between  the tax bases of  assets  and  liabilities  and
amounts reported in the accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets.  The Company
evaluates the  recoverability  of tax assets  recorded on the balance sheets and
provides allowances as required.

CONTINGENCIES

Contingencies  are recorded as liabilities  when it is probable that a liability
has been incurred and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. Disclosure
is required when there is a reasonable  possibility  that the ultimate loss will
exceed the recorded provision.  The Company uses outside counsel to assist it in
various

                                       21
<PAGE>

matters  including  securities and Securities  and Exchange  Commission  ("SEC")
regulations,  acquisitions,  trademark, patent and personnel matters. Management
relies on the  professional  judgment  of  outside  counsel  and well as its own
assessment in determining whether contingencies should be recorded.

OVERVIEW

The  Company's  revenues  comprise  subscription,  sales  and  service  contract
revenue. Consistent with the Company's transition to a subscription sales model,
subscription  fees represent a majority and increasing  share of total revenues.
Subscription revenue contracts are primarily with brokerage firms, international
banks and global exchanges trading in equities, and are generally for an initial
period  of  one  to  three  years  with  one  to  three  year  renewal  periods.
Subscription  revenues are recognized ratably over the lives of the subscription
agreements  with  customers  and begin  once  installation  is  complete.  Sales
revenue,  which is comprised of software sales and capital  equipment  sales, is
generated primarily by sales to customers in the futures, options and currencies
trading market, and is recognized upon shipment of the product and acceptance by
the customer. Service contract revenue is comprised of maintenance contracts for
capital sales  equipment and  subscription  equipment and is recognized  ratably
over the  period  that the  service is  provided.  Service  contract  revenue on
subscription  contracts is charged to customers  as a fixed  percentage  of such
contracts.

Cost of revenues  principally  consists  of  subscription  communication  lines,
amortization  of  capitalized  product  enhancement  costs and  depreciation  of
subscription-based equipment, labor, materials and overhead.

Selling,  general and  administrative  expenses  account for the majority of the
Company's  operating  expenses  and consist of salaries and  benefits,  rent and
office  expenses,  non-customer  specific  communication  fees,  provisions  for
doubtful  accounts and marketing  expenses.  During the past several years,  the
Company has expanded its efforts to support an increasing number of services and
to increase the number of exchanges, brokerage firms and "buy-side" institutions
connecting  to  the  NYFIX  Network.  Management  believes  that  its  continued
investment  in  the   development   of  the  NYFIX  system  and  its  associated
applications  and  services  has  increased  order  flow,  which in turn  should
facilitate both revenue growth and further distribution of its products.

Research  and  development  expenses  relate  to  developing  new  products  and
technologies  to meet the current and future needs of the  Company's  customers.
These costs  consist  primarily of salaries and related  costs for technical and
programming personnel.

Depreciation and amortization  expense consists of depreciation and amortization
of equipment and software used to operate the Company's systems.

The following  discussion and analysis  should be read in  conjunction  with the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.  Historical results are not
necessarily indicative of the operating results for any future period.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

REVENUES
Subscription  revenue  increased 81% to $28,955,000 in 2001, from $15,955,000 in
2000, principally due to increased demand among existing customers, and also the
addition of new  customers  and new product  offerings  sold to existing and new
customers. As a percentage of total revenues,  subscription revenue increased to
70% in 2001 from 67% in 2000.

Sales revenue  increased 60% to $8,123,000 in 2001, from $5,089,000 in 2000. The
increase  in  sales  revenue  is  principally  due to  customer  demand  for the
Company's Order Book Management  System ("OBMS")  derivatives  trading  software
products and the sale of equity technology fees, offset in part by a decrease in
hardware sales. As a percentage of total revenue, sales revenue decreased to 20%
in 2001, from 21% in 2000, with software sales  comprising the majority of sales
revenue.

Service  contracts  revenue increased 47% to $4,319,000 in 2001, from $2,936,000
in 2000,  principally due to an

                                       22
<PAGE>

increase in  subscription  contract  revenue.  As a percentage of total revenue,
service contract revenue  comprised 10% of total revenue,  as compared to 12% in
2000.

COST OF REVENUES AND GROSS PROFIT
Gross profit as a percentage of total revenues increased to 77% in 2001 from 73%
in 2000, as gross profit on a percentage  basis  improved for both  subscription
and sales revenues. The increase in gross profit percentage principally resulted
from an increase in the amount of higher  margin  software  installations.  On a
dollar basis, gross profit improved for all three revenue categories,  which was
offset somewhat by increased communication charges relating to increased desktop
connections,  higher labor costs due to  increased  service  contract  revenues,
increased   depreciation  expense  for   subscription-based   equipment  due  to
additional  units being placed into service and higher  amortization  expense of
product enhancement costs. Included in cost of revenues was amortization expense
of product  enhancement  costs of $1,773,000  and  $1,185,000 for 2001 and 2000,
respectively.  Also  included in cost of revenues was  depreciation  expense for
subscription-based  equipment of $2,060,000  and  $1,257,000  for 2001 and 2000,
respectively.  The Company  obtains its materials and supplies from a variety of
vendors  in the U.S.  and  Asia and did not  experience  any  significant  price
increases in its component parts purchased during 2001.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
Selling,  general and  administrative  expenses  increased 68% to $15,841,000 in
2001, from  $9,419,000 in 2000, but decreased  slightly as a percentage of total
revenues to 38% in 2001 from 39% in 2000. The dollar increase reflects increased
salaries and  commissions,  related  personnel  costs,  rent expense and various
office  expenses  due to an  increase in  personnel  of 24% in 2001 from 2000 to
support the Company's growth. Also increasing were non-recoverable communication
fees, and software  support and  maintenance  contract fees due to the continued
investment in the Company's infrastructure.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Research and development  expenses  decreased to $452,000 in 2001, from $454,000
in 2000,  primarily as a result of the Company's focus on enhancing its existing
product lines to allow current and  prospective  customers to be more  efficient
and productive in their  businesses.  As stated above,  amortization  of product
enhancement costs is reflected in cost of revenues.

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
Depreciation  and  amortization  expenses  increased 110% to $2,633,000 in 2001,
from $1,255,000 in 2000, reflecting  principally the continued investment in the
Company's  infrastructure,  in addition to administrative  support equipment and
leasehold improvements to support the Company's growth.

INTEREST EXPENSE
Interest  expense  increased  3% to  $343,000  in 2001,  from  $333,000 in 2000,
principally  as a result of increased  interest on capital lease  obligations of
$126,000,  offset by a $116,000  decrease in other  interest  expense due to the
payoff of the Company's line of credit during July 2001.

INVESTMENT INCOME
Investment  income  increased  400% to $780,000 in 2001,  from $156,000 in 2000,
principally due to interest and dividends earned on the Company's investments in
cash equivalents and marketable securities.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
The provision for income taxes increased to $5,427,000 in 2001, from $601,000 in
2000.  Commencing in 2001, the Company is subject to full  statutory  income tax
rates as  compared  to the prior  periods  in which  the  Company  utilized  the
benefits of available net operating loss carryforwards.  The Company's effective
tax rate of 40% in the current year exceeds the Federal statutory rate primarily
due to state income taxes.

EVENTS OF SEPTEMBER 11TH
The  events  of  September  11,  2001,  did not have a  material  effect  on the
Company's financial position,  results of operations,  or cash flows. Management
believes  that these events have not impacted our overall  growth  outlook.

                                       23
<PAGE>

The  Company  credits  the  ongoing  investment  in  state-of-the-art  redundant
data-centers  and  network  infrastructure  for our  ability  to  maintain  100%
effective  operations  across all products and services  throughout the month of
September.  While the Company  worked around the clock to assist many clients in
recovery testing, and in some cases establishing temporary emergency operations,
the Company opted not to charge any customers  one-time fees in connection  with
these efforts.  The Company also did not incur any material incremental expenses
in connection with the events of September 11, 2001.

Although the events of September 11, 2001 did not have a direct  material effect
on the  Company's  results of  operations,  they did have an effect on the NYFIX
Millennium  Alternative  Trading  System  (ATS),  which  the  Company  had a 50%
ownership  interest at December 31, 2001. After roll-out efforts were stalled by
the tragic events of September 11th,  NYFIX  Millennium usage increased later in
the fourth quarter, bringing the system back to initial execution levels.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

REVENUES
Subscription  revenue  increased 137% to $15,955,000 in 2000, from $6,733,000 in
1999,  principally due to increased desktop placements among existing customers,
and also  the  addition  of new  customers  and new  product  offerings  sold to
existing and new  customers.  As a percentage  of total  revenues,  subscription
revenue increased to 67% in 2000 from 55% in 1999.

Sales revenue  increased 37% to $5,089,000 in 2000, from $3,715,000 in 1999. The
increase  in  sales  revenue  is  principally  due to  customer  demand  for the
Company's OBMS derivatives  trading software products.  As a percentage of total
revenue,  sales  revenue  decreased to 21% in 2000,  from 30% in 1999,  which is
consistent with the Company's  transition to a  subscription-based  model,  with
software sales comprising the majority of sales revenue.

Service  contracts  revenue increased 67% to $2,936,000 in 2000, from $1,761,000
in 1999,  principally due to an increase in subscription  contract  revenue.  In
2000,  service contract revenue  comprised 12% of total revenue,  as compared to
14% in 1999.

COST OF REVENUES AND GROSS PROFIT
Gross profit as a percentage of total revenues increased to 73% in 2000 from 69%
in 1999. The increase in gross profit  percentage  principally  resulted from an
increase in the amount of higher  margin  software  installations  and  improved
pricing on  communication  charges  relating  to  subscription  agreements.  The
Company obtains its materials and supplies from a variety of vendors in the U.S.
and Far East and did not  experience  any  significant  price  increases  in its
component  parts  purchased  during  2000.  Included  in  cost of  revenues  was
amortization expense of product enhancement costs of $1,185,000 and $719,000 for
2000 and 1999, respectively.  Also included in cost of revenues was depreciation
expense for subscription-based equipment of $1,257,000 and $586,000 for 2000 and
1999, respectively.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
Selling,  general and  administrative  expenses  increased  50% to $9,419,000 in
2000,  from  $6,290,000 in 1999, but decreased as a percentage of total revenues
to 39% in  2000  from  52% in  1999.  The  dollar  increase  reflects  increased
salaries,  related personnel costs, rent expense and various office expenses due
to personnel  increases to support the Company's  growth.  Also  increasing were
non-recoverable  communication  fees,  and bad  debt  expense  primarily  due to
certain independent brokers going out of business during 2000.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Research  and  development  expenses  increased  53% to $454,000  in 2000,  from
$297,000  in 1999,  as the  Company  continued  to  research  ways to expand its
product portfolio.

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
Depreciation and amortization  expenses increased 89% to $1,255,000 in 2000 from
$663,000  in  1999,

                                       24
<PAGE>

reflecting principally the continued investment in the Company's infrastructure.

INTEREST EXPENSE
Interest  expense  increased  50% to  $333,000 in 2000,  from  $222,000 in 1999,
principally  as a result of capital  lease  obligations  entered into during the
period and higher average  balances  outstanding on the Company's line of credit
due to the draw down of an additional $700,000 in August 1999, offset in part by
repayment of the principal of $83,000 a month commencing in July 2000.

INVESTMENT INCOME
Investment  income  increased  38% to $156,000 in 2000,  from  $113,000 in 1999,
principally due to higher average cash balances maintained by the Company during
the year ended December 31, 2000 versus the comparable period in 1999.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
The  provision for income taxes  increased to $601,000 in 2000,  from $94,000 in
1999.  As of  December  31,  1999,  the  Company  established  a full  valuation
allowance of  $2,010,000  for its  deferred  tax assets based upon  management's
determination  of the amount that would  ultimately be realized.  Based upon the
continued  profitability  of the Company during 2000 as well as expected  future
profitability,  management  determined as of December 31, 2000, that a valuation
allowance was no longer required.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

In June 2001, the Company raised $57,284,000 from a follow-on public offering of
3,000,000 shares of its common stock, net of expenses.  The Company is using the
net proceeds for working capital, to purchase shares of its common stock and for
other general corporate purposes. The Company is also using a portion of the net
proceeds  for  acquisitions  of  businesses,  products and  technologies  or the
establishment  of joint  ventures that are  complementary  to our  business.  As
described  in  Note  21 to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements,  Subsequent
Events,  the Company is  committed  to expend  funds of  $15,000,000  on certain
acquisitions  subsequent to year-end. The funds have come or will come primarily
from liquidating available-for-sale marketable securities. At December 31, 2001,
the cash and cash equivalents balance increased to $4,968,000 from $4,867,000 at
December  31,  2000  primarily  as a result  of net  proceeds  from  the  public
offering,  the  exercise  of  stock  options  and  cash  provided  by  operating
activities,  offset by purchases of available-for-sale marketable securities and
treasury stock, capital  expenditures,  a subordinated loan to NYFIX Millennium,
the  acquisition  of other assets to support the  Company's  infrastructure  and
repayments under loan and capital lease obligations.

On March 6, 2002,  the Company  announced  that it had acquired a 40%  ownership
interest in EuroLink Network, Inc. ("EuroLink"),  a privately held company based
in Madrid,  Spain,  which offers  direct  electronic  access to the U.S.  equity
markets  from Europe.  The Company  acquired its interest in return for granting
licensing  and  distribution  rights  and  $4,000,000.  Under  the  terms of the
agreement, EuroLink will offer the Company's equity terminals, market access and
services to the European marketplace,  primarily on a transaction fee basis. The
terms of the  agreement  give the Company the option to increase  its  ownership
interest in EuroLink to 80% at a later date.

On March  12,  2002,  the  Company  announced  that it had  signed a  definitive
agreement to acquire Javelin  Technologies,  Inc. ("Javelin").  Javelin,  widely
known as one of the pioneers in FIX (Financial  Information  exchange  Protocol)
technology,  has over  1,000  installations  at more  than 300  leading  buy and
sell-side institutions,  exchanges and ECNs, including over 50 clients in Europe
and 20 in Asia.  Javelin  possesses  the leading  market-share  in the  buy-side
institutional  market for  electronic  order routing  enabling  technology.  The
Company  will  finance  the  transaction  with a  combination  of  approximately
$11,000,000  cash and the issuance of common stock with a value of approximately
$44,000,000.  The cash  portion will be financed  through  available  funds.  In
addition,  the  Company  has  negotiated  an earn-out  based on  Javelin's  2002
revenues. The transaction is scheduled to close on March 31, 2002.

                                       25
<PAGE>

Some of the Company's key considerations for the acquisition of Javelin include:
increased  connectivity  to  the  buy-side  institutional  market;  consolidated
product offering; cross-selling of core products and transaction services; and a
single  point of  electronic  exchange  access  across  all major  domestic  and
international  equity  and  derivatives  exchanges.  The plan is to embed  NYFIX
Millennium capabilities in Javelin products,  which should reduce implementation
time of the NYFIX Millennium ATS throughout the financial industry.

As a  result  of the  Company's  acquisition  of an  inactive  broker-dealer  in
December 2001,  subsequently  named NYFIX  Transaction  Services,  Inc., and the
agreement with EuroLink noted above, the Company expects to record transactional
revenue beginning in 2002. NYFIX Transaction Services is ready to move into full
operational  status  immediately  upon NASD  approval of its pending  membership
application.  If NASD  broker-dealer  status is  granted  by early in the second
quarter of 2002, NYFIX  Transaction  Services is expected to make a contribution
to earnings in the second  quarter and beyond.  In addition,  as a result of the
Company's  increase in ownership interest in NYFIX Millennium to 80% on February
1, 2002 (see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), the Company will
begin consolidating NYFIX Millennium's financial results effective on that date.
Although NYFIX Millennium is experiencing  increasing volumes and increasing its
revenues,  it is not expected to have a significant impact on first quarter 2002
results.  The Company expects NYFIX  Millennium to make solid  contributions  to
earnings in the second quarter and beyond.

At December 31, 2001, the Company had invested $28,974,000 in current marketable
security  instruments,  having  interest  rates  ranging  from  1.30% to  5.05%,
$2,214,000 in a tax-free  money fund with an average yield of 0.96% and $552,000
in money market funds with a 30 day yield of 1.73%.

At December 31, 2001, the Company had total debt of $1,501,000, which represents
amounts  outstanding under capital lease obligations.  At December 31, 2001, the
Company  had no  material  commitments  for capital  expenditures  or  inventory
purchases.

On July 13,  1998,  the Company  entered  into a  three-year  $3 million line of
credit agreement with a financial  institution.  Outstanding  indebtedness under
the credit  agreement  bore  interest  at either  LIBOR plus 1.25% or the bank's
prime rate, at the Company's  discretion.  The Company drew down an aggregate of
$1,800,000  under the agreement  during 1998 and an additional  $700,000  during
1999.  Repayment  of principal  commenced  on July 30, 2000 with twelve  monthly
installments  of $83,333 with the  remaining  balance due on July 30, 2001.  The
Company repaid the remaining balance of $1,500,000 in full on July 17, 2001. The
debt was personally secured by a non-employee shareholder of the Company and the
Company's   president.   In  consideration  for  securing  the  Agreement,   the
non-employee  shareholder and president  received  337,500 and 56,250  warrants,
respectively,  to purchase the Company's common stock at approximately $2.83 per
share, which was the market value of the Company's common stock on the date such
warrants were issued.  The expense related to the warrants issued was recognized
over the three-year term of the Agreement.


The Company believes it has sufficient liquidity,  including cash generated from
operations and issuances of common stock, to support its cash needs for at least
the next twelve months.

The following summarizes the Company's  contractual  obligations at December 31,
2001, and the effect such  obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and
cash flows in future periods (in 000's):

                                                               Payments Due In
                                       --------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                               After
                                        2002          2003          2004          2005         2005
                                        ----          ----          ----          ----         ----

          Capital leases               $1,058        $  559        $   11        $ --          $ --
           Non-cancelable
              operating leases          2,405         2,043         1,893         1,095           312
                                       ------        ------        ------        ------        ------
          Total obligations            $3,463        $2,602        $1,904        $1,095        $  312
                                       ======        ======        ======        ======        ======

                                       26
<PAGE>

As  mentioned  above,  the  Company is also  obligated  to expend  approximately
$15,000,000 in cash on acquisitions made in 2002.

WORKING CAPITAL
At December 31, 2001 and 2000,  the Company had working  capital of  $47,513,000
and $9,159,000,  respectively,  representing a 419%  improvement.  The Company's
present capital  resources  include  proceeds from internal  operations and from
issuances of common stock.

CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES
During 2001, net cash provided by operations was  $10,625,000 as compared to net
cash provided by operations of $9,432,000 in 2000. The increase is primarily due
to the 43% increase in net earnings,  to $8,136,000 in 2001,  from $5,676,000 in
2000.  The  increase is also due to an increase in accounts  payable and accrued
expenses of $2,286,000,  offset by a decrease in advance billings of $5,697,000,
an increase in accounts receivable of $1,124,000, and an increase in prepaid and
other current assets of $1,292,000.  The increase in accrued  expenses  reflects
increased tax liabilities due to increased sales and profitability. The decrease
in advance  billings  reflects a change in the  Company's  procedure for advance
billings on subscription contracts,  from issuing the invoices at the end of the
prior quarter to issuing the invoices at the  beginning of the current  quarter.
The increase in accounts  receivable is due primarily to increased  sales offset
by the advance billing method change  described  above.  The increase in prepaid
and other  current  assets is due in part to an increase in certain  receivables
from telecommunication providers.

CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES
During 2001 and 2000, net cash used in investing  activities was $48,135,000 and
$9,387,000,  respectively.  The  increase is  primarily  due to the  $28,974,000
invested in current marketable  securities,  payments for purchases of equipment
related to the Company's data center and  subscription  equipment of $7,121,000,
payments  related  to  product  enhancement  costs  for  the  Company's  product
portfolio  of  $2,806,000,  along with a  subordinated  loan of  $6,000,000  and
advances of $3,237,000 made to NYFIX Millennium.

CASH PROVIDED BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES
During 2001 and 2000, net proceeds from financing  activities  were  $37,612,000
and $3,256,000,  respectively. During 2001, net proceeds of $57,264,000 from the
follow-on public offering and $2,293,000 from the exercise of stock options were
partially  offset by purchases  of treasury  shares of  $19,100,000,  repayments
under the revolving  line of credit of $2,000,000  and principal  payments under
capital lease obligations of $846,000.

SEASONALITY

The Company  believes  that its  operations  are not  significantly  effected by
seasonality.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In June 2001, the FASB issued two new pronouncements: SFAS No. 141 ("SFAS 141"),
"Business  Combinations,"  and SFAS No. 142 ("SFAS  142"),  "Goodwill  and Other
Intangible Assets." SFAS 141 prohibits the use of the pooling-of-interest method
for business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001, and also applies to all
business  combinations  accounted for by the purchase  method that are completed
after June 30, 2001. There are also transition provisions that apply to business
combinations  completed  before  July 1, 2001,  that were  accounted  for by the
purchase method. SFAS 142 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2001, to all goodwill and other intangible  assets recognized in an entity's
balance  sheet at that date,  regardless  of when those  assets were  originally
recognized.  The Company has adopted  SFAS 141 and SFAS 142. As of December  31,
2001,  the  Company  did not  have any  goodwill  recorded  on its  consolidated
financial  statements,  but will have  goodwill as a result of the  acquisitions
made  subsequent to year-end (see Note 21). The Company is currently  evaluating
the impact of SFAS 142 on its consolidated financial statements.

                                       27
<PAGE>

In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144 ("SFAS 144"),  "Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived  Assets," which  supercedes  SFAS No. 121 ("SFAS 121"),
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
be Disposed  of," and the  accounting  and  reporting  provisions of APB No. 30,
"Reporting  the Results of  Operation  - Reporting  the Effects of Disposal of a
Segment of a Business,  and  Extraordinary,  Unusual and Infrequently  Occurring
Events and Transactions," for the disposal of a segment of a business.  SFAS 144
retains many of the provisions of SFAS 121, but addresses certain implementation
issues  associated with that  Statement.  SFAS 144 is effective for fiscal years
beginning  after  December 15,  2001.  The Company  adopted  SFAS 144  effective
January  1,  2002.  The  adoption  of SFAS  144 did not  have an  impact  on the
financial position, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market risk generally represents the risk of loss that may be expected to result
from the  potential  change in value of a  financial  instrument  as a result of
fluctuations in credit ratings of the issuer,  equity prices,  interest rates or
foreign  currency  exchange  rates.  The  Company  is  exposed  to  market  risk
principally  through  changes in  interest  rates,  equity  prices  and  foreign
currency  exchange rates.  Interest rate exposure is principally  limited to the
$29.0 million of current marketable securities and $5.0 million of cash and cash
equivalents  invested at December 31,  2001.  Risk is limited on $9.0 million of
the  marketable  securities  due to the fact that it is  invested  in an insured
municipal bond  portfolio and no more than 5% of the Company's  portfolio can be
invested in any one security issue.

The remaining  $20.0 million of current  marketable  securities is invested in a
quoted  fund that is managed by an  institution  (the  "Fund")  which  primarily
invests in investment grade securities,  with up to a maximum of 10% invested in
high yield securities rated B or higher.

The fair value of the  Company's  investment  portfolio  at December  31,  2001,
approximated  carrying  value  due to its  short-term  duration.  The  potential
decrease  in fair value  resulting  from a  hypothetical  10% change in interest
rates for the marketable  securities  contained in the investment  portfolio and
cash funds would not be material to earnings,  cash flows or fair value. Current
marketable  securities  at December  31,  2001,  are recorded at a fair value of
$29.0  million,  net of an  unrealized  loss of  $60,000.  $20.0  million of the
securities  has exposure to price risk.  The  estimated  potential  loss in fair
value  resulting  from a  hypothetical  10% decrease in the quoted price is $2.0
million.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated  financial statements,  the financial
statements of the Company's London sales office are remeasured into U.S. dollars
using the U.S.  dollar as the functional  currency.  The market risk  associated
with  foreign  currency  exchange  rates  is not  material  in  relation  to the
Company's consolidated financial position,  results of operations or cash flows.
The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for any purpose.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

See index to Financial Statements on Page 32.


ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
        AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

As previously reported by the Company in its Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
April 28, 2000.

                                       28
<PAGE>


                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
Section   entitled  "Proposal  No. 1 - Election  of  Directors"  and  "Executive
Compensation"  in the  Company's  Proxy  Statement  for the June 10, 2002 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
no later than April 30, 2002.


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
Section entitled  "Executive  Compensation" in the Company's Proxy Statement for
the  June  10,  2002  Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders,  to be  filed  with the
Securities and Exchange Commission no later than April 30, 2002.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
Section entitled  "Security  Ownership" of the Company's Proxy Statement for the
June 10, 2002 Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders,  to be filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission no later than April 30, 2002.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
Section  entitled  "Certain  Relationships  and  Related  Transactions"  in  the
Company's Proxy Statement for the June 10, 2002 Annual Meeting of  Stockholders,
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission no later than April 30,
2002.


                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(A) DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT
- ------------------------------------------

            (1) Financial Statements
                        See index to Financial Statements on Page 32.

            (2) Financial Statement Schedules
                        Supplemental  schedules are omitted because they are not
            required,  inapplicable or the required  information is shown in the
            consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

            (3) Exhibits *

                     3.1    Composite  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of NYFIX,
                             Inc.  (Exhibit 3.1 to  Registrant's  Form S-3 filed
                             June 1, 2001).

                     3.2    By-Laws of NYFIX,  Inc. (Exhibit 3.2 to Registrant's
                             Form 10 filed March 5, 1993).


                                       29

<PAGE>

                     4.1    Rights  Agreement  between Chase Mellon  Shareholder
                             Services,  L.L.C.  (now  known as  Mellon  Investor
                             Services)  and the  Registrant  dated  September 1,
                             1997  (Exhibit  2  to   Registrant's   registration
                             statement on Form 8-A12B filed September 10, 1997).

                     4.2    First  Amendment to Rights  Agreement  between Chase
                             Mellon Shareholder  Services,  L.L.C. (now known as
                             Mellon Investor  Services) and the Registrant dated
                             October  25,  1999   (Exhibit  3  to   Registrant's
                             registration   statement  on  Form  8-A12B/A  filed
                             November 3, 1999).

                    10.1    Employment Agreement between Peter K. Hansen and the
                             Registrant  dated  June 24,  1991  (Exhibit  3.2 to
                             Registrant's Form 10 filed March 5, 1993).

                    10.2    Limited  Liability  Company  Operating  Agreement of
                             NYFIX Millennium, L.L.C. (Exhibit 10.4 to Company's
                             Annual  Report  on Form  10-K  for the  year  ended
                             December 31, 1999).

                    10.3    NYFIX,  Inc. 2001 Stock Option Plan (Exhibit 10.1 to
                             the Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                             the quarterly period ended June 30, 2001).

                    10.4    Amended and  Restated  1991  Incentive  Stock Option
                             Plan of NYFIX,  Inc. (Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's
                             Annual  Report on Form  10-KSB  for the year  ended
                             December 31, 1996).

                    10.5    Amendment  No.  1  to  Amended  and  Restated   1991
                             Incentive  and   Nonqualified   Stock  Option  Plan
                             (Exhibit  10.4 to the  Company's  Annual  Report on
                             Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000).

                    10.6    Amendment  No.  2  to  Amended  and  Restated   1991
                             Incentive  and   Nonqualified   Stock  Option  Plan
                             (Exhibit  10.5 to the  Company's  Annual  Report on
                             Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000).

                    10.7    Subordinated  Loan  Agreement  for  Equity  Capital,
                             dated October 30, 2001,  between the Registrant and
                             NYFIX  Millennium,  L.L.C.  (Exhibit  10.1  to  the
                             Company's Form 8-K filed February 14, 2002).

                    21.1    Subsidiaries  of the  Registrant  (Exhibit  21.1  to
                             Company's  Annual  Report  on Form  10- KSB for the
                             year ended December 31, 1994).

                    23.1    Consent of Deloitte &amp; Touche LLP **

                    24.1    Power of Attorney (see signature page) **

                    -----------------
 * - Except as  noted,  all  exhibits  have been  previously  filed.  ** - Filed
herewith.


(B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
- -----------------------

            None


                                       30
<PAGE>

                                   SIGNATURES

            Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  Section  13  or  15(d)  of  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,  the  Registrant  has caused this report to be
signed this 28th day of March 2002 on its behalf by the  undersigned,  thereunto
duly authorized.

                                       NYFIX, INC.


                                       By: /s/ Peter Kilbinger Hansen
                                          -----------------------------
                                             Peter Kilbinger Hansen
                                             Chairman of the Board
                                                   and President
                                             (Chief Executive Officer)


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

NYFIX, Inc. and each of the undersigned do hereby appoint Peter Kilbinger Hansen
and Richard A. Castillo, and each of them severally,  its or his true and lawful
attorney to execute on behalf of NYFIX,  Inc.  and the  undersigned  any and all
amendments  to this  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K and to file the same with all
exhibits  thereto  and  other  documents  in  connection  therewith,   with  the
Securities and Exchange Commission;  each of such attorneys shall have the power
to act hereunder with or without the other.

            Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this  report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

/s/ Peter Kilbinger Hansen           Chairman of the Board                        March 28, 2002
- --------------------------           (Principal Executive Officer)
Peter Kilbinger Hansen

/s/ Richard A. Castillo              Chief Financial Officer &amp; Secretary      March 28, 2002
- -----------------------              (Principal Financial Officer and Principal
Richard A. Castillo                  Accounting Officer)

/s/ George O. Deehan                 Director                                     March 28, 2002
- --------------------
George O. Deehan

/s/ William J. Lynch                 Director                                     March 28, 2002
- --------------------
William J. Lynch

/s/ Carl E. Warden                   Director                                     March 28, 2002
- ------------------
Carl E. Warden


                                       31
<PAGE>

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



                                                                            Page

Independent Auditors' Report.................................................33

Financial Statements:

   Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2001 and 2000.................34

   Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the Years Ended
        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999.....................................35

   Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the Years Ended
        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999.....................................36

   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
        December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999.....................................37

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...................................38

                                       32


<PAGE>
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


To the Board of Directors
NYFIX, Inc.
Stamford, Connecticut

We have audited the accompanying  consolidated balance sheets of NYFIX, Inc. and
subsidiary  as of  December  31,  2001 and 2000,  and the  related  consolidated
statements  of earnings,  shareholders'  equity,  and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2001. These consolidated  financial
statements   are  the   responsibility   of  the   Company's   management.   Our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the  United  States of  America.  Those  standards  require  that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant  estimates  made by  management  as well as  evaluating  the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  such consolidated  financial  statements present fairly, in all
material  respects,  the financial  position of NYFIX, Inc. and subsidiary as of
December 31, 2001 and 2000,  and the results of their  operations and their cash
flows for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,  2001 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.


                                                      DELOITTE &amp; TOUCHE LLP


Stamford, Connecticut
March 8, 2002
(March 14, 2002 as to Note 21)

                                       33

<PAGE>
                                                     NYFIX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
                                                    CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                                     DECEMBER 31, 2001 AND 2000


ASSETS                                                                                                    2001             2000
                                                                                                    -------------    -------------


CURRENT ASSETS
   Cash and cash equivalents                                                                        $   4,967,537    $   4,866,629
   Short-term investments in marketable securities                                                     28,973,685             --
   Accounts receivable - less allowance of $511,000 and $421,000                                       12,949,485       12,058,370
   Inventory, net                                                                                       1,599,592        1,742,823
   Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                                            2,138,912          847,255
   Due from NYFIX Millennium                                                                            5,221,736        1,985,081
   Deferred income taxes                                                                                  443,000        1,859,000
                                                                                                    -------------    -------------
                     Total Current Assets                                                              56,293,947       23,359,158
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, net                                                                            14,366,097       11,472,473
INVESTMENT IN NYFIX MILLENNIUM                                                                         27,500,000       19,500,000
NOTE RECEIVABLE FROM NYFIX MILLENNIUM                                                                   6,043,151             --
DEFERRED INCOME TAXES                                                                                     348,000          237,000
OTHER ASSETS                                                                                            4,020,453        2,989,719
                                                                                                    -------------    -------------
                     TOTAL ASSETS                                                                   $ 108,571,648    $  57,558,350
                                                                                                    =============    =============

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
   Accounts payable                                                                                 $   3,847,546    $   2,915,167
   Accrued expenses                                                                                     3,530,427        2,444,825
   Current portion of capital lease obligations                                                           952,176          692,525
   Current portion of long-term debt                                                                         --          2,000,000
   Advance billings                                                                                       451,195        6,147,705
                                                                                                    -------------    -------------
                     Total Current Liabilities                                                          8,781,344       14,200,222
LONG-TERM PORTION OF CAPITAL LEASE OBLIGATIONS                                                            548,608        1,130,394
                                                                                                    -------------    -------------
                     Total Liabilities                                                                  9,329,952       15,330,616
                                                                                                    -------------    -------------
 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (See Notes)
 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
   Preferred stock - par value $1; 5,000,000 shares authorized; none issued                                  --               --
   Common stock - par value $.001; 60,000,000 authorized; 28,869,800 and 25,109,550 shares issued          28,870           25,110
   Additional paid-in capital                                                                         110,497,679       42,558,040
   Retained earnings                                                                                    8,442,406          306,482
   Due from officers and directors                                                                       (591,732)        (661,898)
   Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                                                   (35,675)            --
   Treasury stock, at cost (1,301,300 shares)                                                         (19,099,852)            --
                                                                                                    -------------    -------------
                     Total Shareholders' Equity                                                        99,241,696       42,227,734
                                                                                                    -------------    -------------
                     TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY                                     $ 108,571,648    $  57,558,350
                                                                                                    =============    =============


The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
of these statements.


                                       34
<PAGE>

                                                     NYFIX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
                                                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                                        FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999

                                                                             2001            2000            1999
                                                                        ------------    ------------    ------------

REVENUES:
Subscriptions                                                           $ 28,955,085    $ 15,954,989    $  6,732,928
Sales                                                                      8,122,766       5,089,412       3,715,479
Service contracts                                                          4,319,566       2,935,766       1,761,044
                                                                        ------------    ------------    ------------
          TOTAL REVENUES                                                  41,397,417      23,980,167      12,209,451
                                                                        ------------    ------------    ------------
COST OF REVENUES:
Cost of subscriptions                                                      7,198,153       5,032,064       2,664,077
Cost of sales                                                                894,443         669,878         545,963
Cost of service contracts                                                  1,238,676         675,410         555,547
                                                                        ------------    ------------    ------------
         Total Cost of Revenues                                            9,331,272       6,377,352       3,765,587
                                                                        ------------    ------------    ------------
GROSS PROFIT                                                              32,066,145      17,602,815       8,443,864
                                                                        ------------    ------------    ------------
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Selling, general and administrative                                       15,841,397       9,419,182       6,289,686
Research and development                                                     452,024         454,362         297,475
Depreciation and amortization                                              2,632,564       1,254,777         662,537
                                                                        ------------    ------------    ------------
          Total Operating Expenses                                        18,925,985      11,128,321       7,249,698
                                                                        ------------    ------------    ------------
EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS                                                  13,140,160       6,474,494       1,194,166

Interest expense                                                            (342,788)       (332,750)       (221,711)
Investment income                                                            779,648         155,947         112,807
Other (expense) income                                                       (14,456)        (20,009)         11,166
                                                                        ------------    ------------    ------------
EARNINGS BEFORE PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES AND
CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE                     13,562,564       6,277,682       1,096,428

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES                                                 5,426,640         601,255          94,400
                                                                        ------------    ------------    ------------
                                                                           8,135,924       5,676,427       1,002,028
EARNINGS BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE
CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE                           --              --           (41,609)
                                                                        ------------    ------------    ------------
NET EARNINGS                                                            $  8,135,924    $  5,676,427    $    960,419
                                                                        ============    ============    ============
BASIC EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT
OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE                                     $       0.30    $       0.23    $       0.05
                                                                        ============    ============    ============
BASIC EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE                                         $       0.30    $       0.23    $       0.04
                                                                        ============    ============    ============
BASIC WEIGHTED AVERAGE COMMON SHARES OUTSTANDING                          26,784,054      24,480,356      21,752,583
                                                                        ============    ============    ============
DILUTED EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE BEFORE AND AFTER CUMULATIVE
EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE                              $       0.29    $       0.21    $       0.04
                                                                        ============    ============    ============
DILUTED WEIGHTED AVERAGE COMMON SHARES OUTSTANDING                        28,542,184      26,425,130      23,306,912
                                                                        ============    ============    ============


The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.


                                       35
<PAGE>

                                                     NYFIX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
                                          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                        FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999

                             Common Stock Issued                    Retained    Due from    Accumulated
                            --------------------    Additional      Earnings    Oficers        Other                      Total
                                                      Paid-in     (Accumulated)   and       Comprehensive   Treasury   Shareholders'
                             Shares     Amount        Capital        Deficit    Directors       Loss          Stock       Equity
                            ---------- ---------    -----------   ------------- ----------  -------------   --------    ------------
Balance January 1, 1999     21,169,193   $21,169    $14,880,869   $(6,330,364)  $(452,925)   $   -          $    -       $8,118,749

Common stock issued from
  exercise of
  options &amp; warrants       435,760       436        873,504           -         -            -               -          873,940
Common stock, net of
  issuance costs             2,250,000     2,250     20,044,625           -         -            -               -       20,046,875
Warrants issued                  -           -           63,996           -         -            -               -           63,996
Due from officers and
  directors                      -           -            -               -      (178,699)       -               -         (178,699)
Net earnings                     -           -            -           960,419       -            -               -          960,419
                            ----------  --------     ----------   -----------   ----------  ----------   ------------    -----------
Balance December 31, 1999   23,854,953    23,855     35,862,994    (5,369,945)   (631,624)       -               -       29,885,280

Payment for fractional
  shares                         -           -           (3,770)          -         -            -               -           (3,770)
Common stock issued from
  exercise of options
  and warrants               1,254,597     1,255      3,988,268           -         -            -               -        3,989,523
Warrants issued                  -           -           75,548           -         -            -               -           75,548
Due from officers and
  directors                      -           -            -               -       (30,274)       -               -          (30,274)
Tax benefit from exercise
   of stock options              -           -        2,635,000           -         -            -               -        2,635,000
Net earnings                     -           -            -         5,676,427       -            -               -        5,676,427
                            ----------   -------     ----------    ----------   ---------  -------------   ----------    ----------
Balance December 31, 2000   25,109,550    25,110     42,558,040       306,482    (661,898)       -               -       42,227,734

Common stock issued from
  exercise of options          384,250       384      2,222,636           -         -            -               -        2,223,020
Common stock, net of
  issuance costs             3,376,000     3,376     65,260,933           -         -            -               -       65,264,309
Warrants issued                                          44,070           -         -            -               -           44,070
Due from officers and
  directors                      -           -            -               -        70,166        -               -           70,166
Net unrealized loss on
  available-for-sale
  securities                     -           -            -               -         -         (35,675)           -          (35,675)
Treasury stock purchased         -           -            -               -         -            -       (19,099,852)   (19,099,852)
Tax benefit from exercise
  of stock options               -           -          412,000           -         -            -               -          412,000
Net earnings                     -           -            -         8,135,924       -            -               -        8,135,924
                             ----------  -------   ------------    ----------   ---------- ----------   ------------    -----------
Balance December 31, 2001    28,869,800  $28,870   $110,497,679    $8,442,406   $(591,732)   $(35,675)  $(19,099,852)   $99,241,696
                             ==========  =======   ============    ==========   ========== ==========   ============    ===========

       The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.

                                       36

<PAGE>



                           NYFIX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999

                                               2001         2000        1999
                                           -----------  -----------  -----------
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
    Net earnings                           $ 8,135,924  $ 5,676,427  $  960,419
    Adjustments to reconcile net earnings
     to net cash provided
    by operating activities:
       Depreciation and amortization         6,465,000    3,696,639   1,983,399
       Deferred income taxes                 1,473,000     (585,300)        -
       Provision for bad debts                 232,638      415,802      44,758
       Non-cash financing charges               44,070       75,548      63,996
       Non-cash investment income              (43,151)         -           -
       Changes in assets and liabilities:
           Accounts receivable              (1,123,753)  (5,385,352) (3,716,160)
           Inventory                           143,231     (439,165)    (24,356)
           Prepaid expenses and other
             current assets                 (1,291,657)    (211,622)   (231,138)
           Accounts payable and accrued
             expenses                        2,285,981    3,220,183   1,674,396
           Advance billings                 (5,696,510)   2,969,069   1,689,579
                                           ------------  ----------  -----------

             Net cash provided by operating
               activities                   10,624,773    9,432,229   2,444,893
                                           ------------  ----------  -----------

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
    Purchases of marketable securities     (91,183,360)       -             -
    Proceeds from sales of marketable
     securities                             62,150,000        -             -
    Capital expenditures                    (7,121,238)  (6,084,180) (4,263,724)
    Loan to NYFIX Millennium                (6,000,000)       -             -
    Investment in NYFIX Millennium               -            -      (2,000,000)
    Advances to NYFIX Millennium            (3,236,655)  (1,123,111)   (861,970)
    Payments for product enhancement
     costs and other assets                 (2,744,170)  (2,179,464) (1,643,670)
                                           ------------  ----------  -----------

             Net cash used in investing
               activities                  (48,135,423)  (9,386,755) (8,769,364)
                                           ------------  ----------  -----------

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
    Principal payments under capital lease
     obligations                              (846,085)    (199,973)        -
    Proceeds from borrowings                       -            -       700,000
    Repayment of borrowings                 (2,000,000)    (500,000)        -
    Purchases of treasury stock            (19,099,852)         -           -
    Issuance of common stock, net of
     issuance costs                         59,557,495    3,955,479   3,242,116
                                           ------------  ----------  -----------
             Net cash provided by
               financing activities         37,611,558    3,255,506   3,942,116
                                           ------------  ----------  -----------
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND
     CASH EQUIVALENTS                          100,908    3,300,980  (2,382,355)

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING
     OF YEAR                                 4,866,629    1,565,649   3,948,004
                                           ------------  ----------  -----------

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF YEAR    $  4,967,537  $ 4,866,629 $ 1,565,649
                                           ============  ========== ============

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
    Cash paid during the year for
     interest                             $    300,541  $   274,490 $   149,777
    Cash paid during the year for
     income taxes                            2,985,397      286,634      39,150
    Capital lease obligations incurred         523,950    2,022,892         -
    Common stock issued for investment
     in NYFIX Millennium                     8,000,000        -      17,500,000

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
of these statements.

                                       37

<PAGE>


                           NYFIX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999



1.   ORGANIZATION AND PRESENTATION

     NYFIX,  Inc.  and  subsidiary  (the  "Company")  is a leading  provider  of
     electronic  trading  infrastructure  and  technologies to the  professional
     trading  segment of the brokerage  community.  With our desktop  solutions,
     stationary  and wireless  exchange  floor  systems,  electronic  automation
     systems and straight-through  processing, we streamline data entry, routing
     and execution and eliminate many processing  inefficiencies.  The Company's
     infrastructure,  which  consists  of an  extensive  network  of  electronic
     circuits,  links  industry  participants  across  equities and  derivatives
     markets.

     The Company's products and services are broadly categorized into electronic
     trading infrastructure and applications and provide the Company's customers
     a complete  solution to enter,  manage and route orders and execution  data
     electronically.  The NYFIX network is a proprietary  centralized electronic
     infrastructure  linking various market  participants to provide  efficient,
     secure and reliable order routing.  A single dedicated  circuit between the
     Company's  customers and the NYFIX network enables  connectivity to buyside
     and sellside institutions and major international exchanges and alternative
     execution  venues  such as  electronic  communication  networks  (ECNs) and
     alternative  trading  systems  (ATSs).  We also have developed and offer an
     integrated  portfolio of modular  desktop  trading  applications,  exchange
     floor automation and exchange access  applications for trading domestic and
     international  equities,  futures and  options.  The  Company's  outsourced
     application  solutions reside upon our centralized system and are delivered
     through the NYFIX  network.  The  Company's  products and services  operate
     using the industry standard Financial Information Exchange (FIX) protocol.

     The  Company  is  headquartered  in  Stamford,  Connecticut  and  maintains
     operations in New York, Chicago and London.


2.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Principles of Consolidation
     ---------------------------

     The consolidated  financial  statements include the accounts of NYFIX, Inc.
     and its subsidiary.  All significant intercompany balances and transactions
     have been eliminated in consolidation.

     Use of Estimates
     ----------------

     The  preparation  of financial  statements  in conformity  with  accounting
     principles  generally  accepted  in the United  States of America  requires
     management  to make  estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect the  amounts
     reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results
     could differ from those estimates.

     Reclassifications
     -----------------

     Certain 2000 and 1999  balances  have been  reclassified  to conform to the
     2001 presentation.

                                       38

<PAGE>

     Cash and Cash Equivalents
     -------------------------

     The  Company   considers  all  highly  liquid   instruments  with  original
     maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

     Short-term Investments in Marketable Securities
     -----------------------------------------------

     The Company's  investments in marketable securities are in instruments that
     are short-term in nature,  consisting of money market instruments and short
     maturity fixed income securities.  Investments in marketable securities are
     stated at market value as determined  by the most recently  traded price of
     each  security  at  the  balance  sheet  date.  The  Company's   marketable
     securities  are  defined  as   available-for-sale   securities   under  the
     provisions of SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
     Equity Securities."

     Management determines the appropriate  classification of its investments in
     debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluates such determinations
     at each balance sheet date.  Available-for-sale  securities  are carried at
     fair value, with the unrealized gains or losses,  net of tax, reported as a
     separate  component  of  shareholders'  equity.  Sales  of  securities  are
     recorded by the specific identification method.

     The cost  basis of  short-term  investments  in  marketable  securities  at
     December 31, 2001 was $29,033,000.

     Inventory
     ---------

     Inventory consists of parts,  finished goods and materials and is stated at
     the lower of cost, determined on an average cost basis, or market.

     Property and Equipment
     ----------------------

     Property  and  equipment is stated at cost less  accumulated  depreciation.
     Included in equipment are certain costs related to the  development  of the
     NYFIX  Network to support the  Company's  subscription  and  service  based
     businesses.  Depreciation is provided using the  straight-line  method over
     the estimated  useful lives of the assets  ranging from two to eight years.
     The estimated useful lives for subscription and service-based equipment are
     generally two to three years.

     Other Assets
     ------------

     Other assets consist  principally of deferred product  enhancements  costs,
     patents,  trademarks and deposits.  Product  enhancements  costs consist of
     labor costs to develop software  internally and costs to purchase  software
     to be used within the Company's  products.  The Company's policy on product
     enhancements costs is to defer those costs that  significantly  enhance the
     feasibility  or  significantly  extend the life of the Company's  products.
     Management is required to use professional  judgment in determining whether
     development   costs   meet  the   criteria   for   immediate   expense   or
     capitalization,  in accordance with SFAS No. 86,  "Accounting for the Costs
     of Computer Software to Be Sold,  Leased, or Otherwise  Marketed."  Product
     enhancement costs are being amortized using the  straight-line  method over
     three  years.  Patent  costs are being  amortized  using the  straight-line
     method over seventeen years.  Trademark costs are being amortized using the
     straight-line method over ten years.

     Long-Lived Assets
     -----------------

     Long-lived  assets,  primarily  equipment and the note  receivable from and
     investment in NYFIX Millennium are reviewed for impairment  whenever events
     or circumstances indicate that the asset's undiscounted expected cash flows
     are not sufficient to recover its carrying amount.  The Company measures an
     impairment  loss by  comparing  the fair value of the asset to its carrying
     amount.  The fair value of an asset is  calculated  based upon the  present
     value of  expected  future  cash  flows.  There has been no  impairment  in
     long-lived assets through December 31, 2001.

                                       39

<PAGE>

     Income Taxes
     ------------

     Deferred income taxes have been provided for temporary  differences between
     the  Company's  financial  statement  and income tax basis of the Company's
     assets and liabilities using presently enacted tax rates.

     Financial Instruments
     ---------------------

     The  carrying  value  for  all  current  assets  and  current   liabilities
     approximates  fair value because of their short-term  nature.  The carrying
     value of the  Company's  long-term  debt also  approximates  its fair value
     based on prevailing interest rates.

     Revenue Recognition
     -------------------

     The Company's  revenues comprise  subscription,  sales and service contract
     revenue.  Sales are generally  recorded upon shipment of the product to and
     acceptance  by  customers.  Sales  revenue,  which is comprised of software
     sales and capital  equipment  sales,  is  generated  primarily  by sales to
     customers  in  the  futures,   options  and  currencies   trading   market.
     Subscription   revenue   contracts  are  primarily  with  brokerage  firms,
     international  banks and  global  exchanges  trading in  equities,  and are
     generally  for an  initial  period of one to three  years with one to three
     year renewal periods.  Subscription  revenue is recognized ratably over the
     life  of  the  subscription  agreements  with  customers  and  begins  once
     installation  is complete.  Revenue from service  contracts is comprised of
     maintenance   contracts  for  capital  sales  equipment  and   subscription
     equipment  and is  recognized  ratably  over the  period the  services  are
     performed. Amounts billed in advance for service and subscription contracts
     are deferred and reflected as advance billings.

     Research and Development
     ------------------------

     Research and  development  expenses  relate to developing  new products and
     technologies  to  meet  the  current  and  future  needs  of the  Company's
     customers,  and are expensed as incurred.  These costs consist primarily of
     salaries and related costs for technical and programming personnel.

     Advertising
     -----------

     The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred. Advertising expense was
     $229,000, $170,000 and $159,000 for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000
     and 1999, respectively.

     Foreign Currency Translation
     ----------------------------

     The Company's  functional  currency is the U.S.  dollar.  Accordingly,  the
     monetary  assets and  liabilities of the London sales office are translated
     at year-end  exchange rates while  non-monetary  assets and liabilities are
     translated at  historical  rates.  Revenues and expenses are  translated at
     average rates in effect during the year,  except for  depreciation and cost
     of sales,  which are translated at historical rates. The resulting currency
     translation gain or loss is included in the results of operations.

     Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle
     -----------------------------------------------------

     In 1998,  the American  Institute of Certified  Public  Accountants  issued
     Statement  of  Position  (SOP)  98-5,  "Reporting  on the Costs of Start-Up
     Activities." The SOP requires costs of start-up activities and organization
     costs to be expensed as incurred.  The Company  adopted the SOP in 1999 and
     recognized  a charge  for the  cumulative  effect of  accounting  change of
     $42,000.

                                       40

<PAGE>
     Comprehensive Income
     --------------------

     For the year ended December 31, 2001,  comprehensive income was $8,100,000,
     or net earnings less the unrealized loss on available-for-sale  securities.
     For the years ended  December 31, 2000 and 1999,  comprehensive  income was
     equal to net earnings.

     Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
     ---------------------------------------------------

     In June 2001, the FASB issued two new  pronouncements:  SFAS No. 141 ("SFAS
     141"),  "Business  Combinations," and SFAS No. 142 ("SFAS 142"),  "Goodwill
     and  Other   Intangible   Assets."  SFAS  141  prohibits  the  use  of  the
     pooling-of-interest  method for business combinations  initiated after June
     30, 2001,  and also applies to all business  combinations  accounted for by
     the purchase method that are completed after June 30, 2001.  There are also
     transition provisions that apply to business combinations  completed before
     July 1, 2001, that were accounted for by the purchase  method.  SFAS 142 is
     effective  for fiscal years  beginning  after  December  15,  2001,  to all
     goodwill and other  intangible  assets  recognized  in an entity's  balance
     sheet  at that  date,  regardless  of when  those  assets  were  originally
     recognized.  The Company has adopted  SFAS 141 and SFAS 142. As of December
     31,  2001,  the  Company  did  not  have  any  goodwill   recorded  on  its
     consolidated  financial  statements,  but will have goodwill as a result of
     the acquisitions  made subsequent to year-end (see Note 21). The Company is
     currently  evaluating the impact of SFAS 142 on its consolidated  financial
     statements.

     In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144 ("SFAS 144"), "Accounting for
     the Impairment of Long-Lived  Assets," which supercedes SFAS No. 121 ("SFAS
     121"),  "Accounting  for  the  Impairment  of  Long-Lived  Assets  and  for
     Long-Lived  Assets to be Disposed  of," and the  accounting  and  reporting
     provisions of APB No. 30,  "Reporting  the Results of Operation - Reporting
     the  Effects of Disposal  of a Segment of a  Business,  and  Extraordinary,
     Unusual  and  Infrequently  Occurring  Events  and  Transactions,"  for the
     disposal  of a  segment  of a  business.  SFAS  144  retains  many  of  the
     provisions  of  SFAS  121,  but  addresses  certain  implementation  issues
     associated  with that  Statement.  SFAS 144 is  effective  for fiscal years
     beginning  after December 15, 2001. The Company  adopted SFAS 144 effective
     January 1,  2002.  The  adoption  of SFAS 144 did not have an impact on the
     financial position, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company.

3.   INVENTORY

     Inventory consists of the following:

                                                                 December 31,
                                                          --------------------------
                                                            2001            2000
                                                          ----------     -----------
               Parts and materials                        $1,120,329      $1,174,727
               Work in process                               151,702          39,629
               Finished goods                                409,561         620,467
                                                          ----------      ----------
                                                           1,681,592       1,834,823
               Less: Allowance for obsolescence               82,000          92,000
                                                          ----------      ----------
                                    Total                 $1,599,592      $1,742,823
                                                          ==========      ==========

                                       41

<PAGE>

4.   PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment consists of the following:

                                                                         December 31,
                                                                 --------------------------
                                                                     2001            2000
                                                                 ------------   ------------
                 Computer software                                $ 1,124,341   $   458,939
                 Leasehold improvements                             1,312,417       558,356
                 Furniture and equipment                            3,252,658     2,428,962
                 Subscription and service bureau equipment         15,880,883    11,161,438
                 Service bureau equipment under capital leases      2,546,842     2,022,892
                                                                 ------------   -----------
                                                                   24,117,141    16,630,587
                 Less: Accumulated depreciation                     9,751,044     5,158,114
                                                                 ------------   -----------
                                                Total             $14,366,097   $11,472,473
                                                                 ============   ===========


     Included  in  accumulated  depreciation  at  December  31, 2001 and 2000 is
     accumulated depreciation on leased service bureau equipment of $629,000 and
     $123,000,  respectively.  Included  in cost  of  revenues  is  depreciation
     expense of  $2,060,000,  $1,257,000  and $586,000 for 2001,  2000 and 1999,
     respectively.

5.   OTHER ASSETS

     Included  in  other  assets  are  deferred  product  enhancement  costs  of
     $3,411,000 and  $2,378,000 as of December 31, 2001 and 2000,  respectively,
     net of accumulated amortization of $5,038,000 and $3,265,000 as of December
     31,  2001  and  2000,  respectively.   Included  in  cost  of  revenues  is
     amortization  expense of deferred product  enhancement costs of $1,773,000,
     $1,185,000 and $719,000 for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.  Included in
     depreciation  and  amortization  expense is amortization  expense for other
     assets of $4,000, $4,000 and $20,000 for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

6.   ACCRUED EXPENSES

     Accrued expenses consists of the following:

                                                                        December 31,
                                                                --------------------------
                                                                    2001            2000
                                                                ------------   ------------
               Income taxes payable                             $  535,562     $       -
               Taxes, other than income taxes                    1,728,856      1,621,810
               Commissions payable                                 560,474        322,645
               Payroll-related accruals                            334,323        228,131
               Other current liabilities                           371,212        272,239
                                                                ------------   ------------
                                    Total                       $3,530,427     $2,444,825
                                                                ============   ============


7.   TREASURY STOCK

     On August 23, 2001,  the Company  announced that its Board of Directors had
     authorized  the  repurchase  of up to 1,000,000  shares of its  outstanding
     common stock.  Through  September 30, 2001, the Company had repurchased the
     full 1,000,000 shares in the open market at prevailing  market prices at an
     aggregate cost of $15.2 million.

     On October 2, 2001,  the Company  announced that its Board of Directors had
     authorized  the  repurchase  of up to an additional  500,000  shares of its
     outstanding  common  stock.  Through  December  31,  2001,


                                       42

<PAGE>

     the Company had repurchased an additional 301,300 shares in the open market
     at prevailing market prices at an aggregate cost of $3.9 million.

8.   EARNINGS PER SHARE

     The Company's  basic earnings per common share ("EPS") is calculated  based
     on net earnings available to common  shareholders and the  weighted-average
     number of shares  outstanding  during  the  reported  period.  Diluted  EPS
     includes additional  dilution from common stock equivalents,  such as stock
     issuable  pursuant  to  the  exercise  of  outstanding  stock  options  and
     warrants.

                                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                            ------------------------------------------
                                                             2001            2000             1999
                                                            -----------    ------------    -----------

                Net earnings                                $  8,135,924   $  5,676,427    $   960,419
                                                            ------------   ------------    -----------
                Basic weighted average shares outstanding     26,784,054     24,480,356     21,752,583
                                                            ------------   ------------    -----------
                Basic earnings per common share             $       0.30   $       0.23    $      0.04
                                                            ============    ===========    ===========
                     Dilutive options                          1,758,130      1,911,485      1,306,029

                     Dilutive warrants                             -             33,289        248,300
                                                            ------------   ------------    -----------
                Diluted weighted average shares outstanding   28,542,184     26,425,130     23,306,912
                                                            ------------   ------------    -----------
                Diluted earnings per common share           $       0.29    $      0.21    $      0.04
                                                            ============    ===========    ===========


9.   CAPITAL STOCK

     On June 22,  2001,  the Company  completed a follow-on  public  offering as
     authorized  by its  Board of  Directors,  issuing  3,000,000  shares of its
     common  stock at a price of $21.00 per share,  generating  net  proceeds of
     $57.3 million,  after deducting the underwriting  discounts and commissions
     and offering expenses paid by the Company.

     On October 21, 1999,  shareholders  approved an increase in the  authorized
     shares of the  Company's  common and  preferred  stock.  Common shares were
     increased to 60 million from 15 million  shares and  preferred  shares to 5
     million  from 1 million  shares.  Along  with this  increase,  the Board of
     Directors  authorized  a 3 for 2 stock  split  in the  form of a 50%  stock
     dividend to all  shareholders of record on November 1, 1999, which was paid
     on November 15, 1999. On March 13, 2000, the Board of Directors  authorized
     a 3 for  2  stock  split  in  the  form  of a 50%  stock  dividend  to  all
     shareholders of record on March 24, 2000, which was paid April 4, 2000. All
     per share,  share data and common  stock  equivalents  in the  consolidated
     financial  statements  and notes  thereto have been restated to reflect the
     stock splits.

     On September 7, 1999, the Company  completed a private placement of 281,250
     shares of common stock to an institutional investment firm at a price equal
     to the average  closing  price of the stock for the 30-day  period prior to
     the closing date on September 1, 1999.  This  approximated  the fair market
     value  of the  stock  at  $9.0555  per  share  for an  aggregate  value  of
     $2,546,875.

     On  September  1, 1997,  the Board of  Directors  declared a dividend  of a
     preference share purchase right (a "Right") for each  outstanding  share of
     common stock of the Company held by shareholders of record on September 19,
     1997.  Each share of common stock  issued by the Company  after such record
     date  has  the  same  Right  attached  thereto.  Each  Right  entitles  the
     registered  holder  to  purchase  from the  Company,  at any

                                       43

<PAGE>

     time after a shareholder acquires 20% or more of the Company's  outstanding
     common stock, as set forth in the Rights Agreement, shares of the Company's
     Series A Preferred Stock  ("Preference  Stock").  The purchase price is $40
     per one one-hundredth of a share of Preference Stock, subject to adjustment
     as set forth in the Rights Agreement.

10.  MAJOR CUSTOMERS

     For the year ended  December 31, 2001,  one customer  accounted  for 12% of
     total revenues and 16% of accounts  receivable,  another customer accounted
     for  10% of  total  revenues  and a  third  customer  accounted  for 15% of
     accounts  receivable.  For the year ended  December 31,  2000,  no customer
     accounted for more than 10% of total revenues or accounts  receivable.  For
     the year ended December 31, 1999,  one customer  accounted for 13% of total
     revenues and another customer accounted for 11% of accounts receivable.

11.  DEBT AND CAPITAL LEASE OBLIGATIONS

     On July 13, 1998, the Company  entered into a three-year $3 million line of
     credit  agreement with a financial  institution.  Outstanding  indebtedness
     under the credit  agreement bore interest at either LIBOR plus 1.25% or the
     bank's prime rate,  at the Company's  discretion.  The Company drew down an
     aggregate of $1,800,000  under the agreement  during 1998 and an additional
     $700,000  during 1999. The weighted  average  outstanding  borrowings  were
     approximately  $1,777,000,  $2,398,000 and  $2,059,000 at weighted  average
     interest  rates of  6.49%,  7.48%  and  7.43%  for  2001,  2000  and  1999,
     respectively. Repayment of principal commenced on July 30, 2000 with twelve
     monthly  installments of $83,333 with the remaining balance due on July 30,
     2001.  The Company  repaid the  remaining  balance of $1,500,000 in full on
     July 17, 2001.

     At December  31,  2001,  the  Company was  committed  under  capital  lease
     obligations with interest rates ranging from 6.56% to 13.04% for maturities
     ranging from January 2, 2003 to January 1, 2004. At December 31, 2001,  the
     amount of the  obligation  was  $1,501,000,  with  $952,000  classified  as
     current.

     Capital lease obligations at December 31, 2001 are payable as follows:

                         Year Ending
                         December 31,                      Amount
                         ------------                      ------
                         2002                           $ 1,058,000
                         2003                               559,000
                         2004                                11,000
                                                        -----------
                         Total                            1,628,000
                         Less portion of lease
                           payments representing            127,000
                           interest                     -----------
                         Present value of minimum
                           lease payments               $ 1,501,000
                                                        ===========

     Capital  leases  generally  provide that the Company pay property taxes and
     operating  costs.  Certain  service  bureau  equipment  under capital lease
     obligations is leased to NYFIX Millennium, L.L.C. See Note 20.

12.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     At December 31, 2001, the Company was committed under operating  leases for
     offices,  production  facilities and equipment for terms  expiring  through
     March 25, 2009. Future minimum annual rental payments are as follows:

                                       44

<PAGE>

                         Year Ending
                         December 31,                     Amount
                         ------------                     ------
                         2002                           $2,405,000
                         2003                            2,043,000
                         2004                            1,893,000
                         2005                            1,095,000
                         2006                              109,000
                         Thereafter                        203,000

     Aggregate rental expense amounted to $1,505,000,  $959,000 and $780,000 for
     the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. See Note 20
     for sublease income from NYFIX Millennium.

     The Company has an employment  agreement with its Chief Executive  Officer,
     which renews on an annual basis and calls for a base salary of $400,000 per
     year,  with  such  base  salary to be  reviewed  on an annual  basis by the
     Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

13.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     Certain executive officers and directors of the Company have amounts due to
     the Company for the exercise of warrants and options for common stock, with
     interest at rates ranging from 5.5% to 7.5%,  for  maturities  ranging from
     June 30, 2002 to December 30, 2004.  Such amounts  aggregated  $591,732 and
     $661,898 as of  December  31,  2001 and 2000,  respectively,  and have been
     shown as a reduction of shareholders' equity.

     At December  31, 2001 and 2000,  the  Company had amounts  receivable  from
     officers  for  travel  and  payroll  advances  of  $225,000  and  $200,000,
     respectively.

     The  partners in NYFIX  Millennium  (see Note 20) are all  customers of the
     Company.

14.  DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN

     The  Company  sponsors  a 401(k)  retirement  plan  (the  "Plan")  covering
     substantially all of its U.S. employees who meet eligibility  requirements.
     The Plan permits participants to contribute up to a maximum of 15% of their
     annual compensation, as defined, not to exceed the federal limit of $11,000
     in 2001.  The Plan  permits the Company to match  employees'  tax  deferred
     contributions up to a maximum of 3% of employees' compensation provided the
     Company   employs  the   employee  at  the  end  of  the  year.   Remaining
     contributions under the Plan are discretionary. Total Company contributions
     under the Plan were $264,000,  $143,000 and $80,000 in 2001, 2000 and 1999,
     respectively.

15.  STOCK WARRANTS AND STOCK OPTION PLAN

     In July 1998,  the Company  entered  into a  three-year  $3 million line of
     credit  agreement (the  "Agreement")  with a financial  institution,  which
     expired on July 30, 2001. The debt was personally secured by a non-employee
     shareholder of the Company and the Company's  president.  In  consideration
     for securing the  Agreement,  the  non-employee  shareholder  and president
     received  337,500  and  56,250  warrants,  respectively,  to  purchase  the
     Company's  common  stock at  approximately  $2.83 per share,  which was the
     market value of the  Company's  common stock on the date such warrants were
     issued.  The expense related to the warrants issued was recognized over the
     three-year  term  of the  Agreement.  The  remaining  unexercised  warrants
     expired on July 30, 2001.

     On March 13, 2001, the Board of Directors  adopted the Company's 2001 Stock
     Option Plan (the "Plan"). The number of shares available under the Plan was
     fixed at 2,000,000.  The Plan was approved at the

                                       45

<PAGE>

     Company's  Annual Meeting of  Shareholders  held on June 4, 2001. All stock
     options  granted are at fair market value at the date of grant,  and expire
     ten years from the date of grant. The Plan was effective on May 1, 2001 and
     expires on April 30, 2011.

     On March 30, 1999,  the Board of Directors  adopted the first  amendment to
     the Amended and Restated 1991 Incentive and Nonqualified Stock Option Plan.
     Under this  amendment,  the number of options  reserved  for  issuance  was
     increased from 3,375,000 shares to 5,625,000  shares of common stock.  This
     amendment was approved at the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders held
     on June 7, 1999.  On March 29,  2000,  the Board of  Directors  adopted the
     second   amendment  to  the  Amended  and  Restated   1991   Incentive  and
     Nonqualified Stock Option Plan. Under this amendment, the number of options
     reserved for  issuance was  increased  from  5,625,000  shares to 6,625,000
     shares of common stock. This amendment was approved at the Company's Annual
     Meeting of  Shareholders  held on June 5, 2000.  All stock options  granted
     were at fair market  value at the date of grant,  and expire ten years from
     the date of grant. The Plan expired on June 23, 2001.

     At December 31, 2001,  2000, and 1999,  the following  options and warrants
     had been granted and were outstanding:

                                                Weighted                          Weighted
                                  Stock          Average           Stock           Average
                                 Options      Exercise Price     Warrants       Exercise Price
                                 -------      --------------     --------       --------------
Outstanding at
January 1, 1999                2,421,675         $ 2.37           733,133        $   2.41
     Granted                   1,446,638           6.59              --               --
     Exercised                  (253,953)          2.38          (181,883)           1.50
     Forfeited                   (61,875)          2.69              --               --
                              -----------                      ----------
Outstanding at
December 31, 1999              3,552,485           4.09           551,250            2.74
     Granted                   2,007,063          28.00              --               --
     Exercised                  (759,713)          3.75          (495,000)           2.70
     Forfeited                  (270,448)         12.41              --               --
                              -----------                      ----------
Outstanding at
December 31, 2000              4,529,387          11.50            56,250            2.83
     Granted                   2,025,926          15.58              --               --
     Exercised                  (384,250)          5.79           (56,250)           2.83
     Forfeited                  (417,123)         16.58              --               --
                              -----------                      ----------
Outstanding at
December 31, 2001              5,753,940          12.95              --               --
                              ===========                      ==========

     The weighted  average fair value of stock options  granted during the years
     ended  December  31,  2001,  2000 and 1999 was  $12.47,  $16.02 and $13.25,
     respectively.

     The following  table  summarizes  the options and warrants  exercisable  at
     December  31, 2001,  2000 and 1999 and the  weighted  average fair value of
     warrants and options granted during the years then ended:

                                       46
<PAGE>

                                                      Exercisable Options                   Exercisable Warrants
                                                      -------------------                   --------------------

                                                                      Weighted                           Weighted
                                                                       Average                            Average
                                                    Options         Exercise Price     Warrants        Exercise Price
                                                    -------         --------------     --------        --------------
           Shares exercisable at
           December 31, 1999                       1,017,557          $   2.25         551,250          $   2.74
           Shares exercisable at
           December 31, 2000                       1,376,321          $   3.16          56,250          $   2.83
           Shares exercisable at
           December 31, 2001                       2,835,723          $   9.03            --                 --

The following table summarizes  information  about stock options  outstanding at
December 31, 2001:

                                                  Granted                                            Exercisable
                           --------------------------------------------------------    ----------------------------------------
                                  Number          Weighted                                   Number
                              Outstanding at      Average             Weighted           Exercisable at          Weighted
          Range of            December 31,     Remaining Life          Average            December 31,            Average
       Exercise Prices            2001             (Years)          Exercise Price            2001             Exercise Price
       ---------------     ----------------    ----------------   -----------------    ---------------      -------------------
        $1.14 - $2.00              512,375           4.54              $1.83                   458,375             $1.81
         2.20 -  2.53              587,000           5.16               2.21                   474,500              2.22
         2.64 -  3.89              560,577           6.75               3.01                   499,090              2.99
         5.28 - 11.39              452,562           7.58               7.72                   202,208              7.91
        12.02 - 12.80            1,369,000           7.50              12.21                   448,650             12.02
        12.93 - 19.00              998,200           8.12              15.03                   430,000             15.00
        19.93 - 22.95              587,426           8.98              22.13                   158,450             21.67
        23.01 - 32.43              305,300           8.75              27.94                    75,700             28.73
        33.00 - 44.00              381,500           8.54              34.56                    88,750             35.84
                           ----------------                                             ---------------
                                 5,753,940                                                   2,835,723
                           ================                                             ===============


The fair value of each option  grant is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes   option-pricing   model  with  the   following   weighted-average
assumptions used for grants in 2001, 2000 and 1999:

     o    Risk free interest rates range from 3.73% to 7.69%
     o    Expected dividend yields of 0%
     o    Expected lives of 1 to 5 years and
     o    Expected volatility of 71%, 70% and 65%, respectively

The  Company  applies  APB  Opinion  No.  25,  "Accounting  for Stock  Issued to
Employees" and related  interpretations  to account for its stock plans.  Except
for costs related to certain warrants  granted to non-employees  during 1998, no
compensation  cost has been recognized for any option grants in the accompanying
consolidated  statements of earnings.  Had compensation costs been determined in
accordance  with the fair value  method as defined in SFAS No. 123,  "Accounting
for  Stock-Based  Compensation",  the net earnings  (loss) and basic and diluted
earnings (loss) per share would have been reduced from the following as reported
amounts to the following pro forma amounts:


                                       47
<PAGE>


                                                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                                        ------------------------------------------------
                                                                           2001             2000               1999
                                                                        ----------       -----------        -----------
          Net earnings (loss):
               As reported                                              $8,135,924       $ 5,676,427        $   960,419
                                                                        ==========       ===========        ===========
               Pro forma                                                $  188,000       $(1,650,000)       $  (831,791)
                                                                        ==========       ===========        ===========
          Basic earnings (loss) per common share:
               As reported                                              $     0.30       $      0.23        $      0.04
                                                                        ==========       ===========        ===========
               Pro forma                                                $     0.01       $     (0.07)       $     (0.04)
                                                                        ==========       ===========        ===========
          Diluted earnings (loss) per common share:
               As reported                                              $     0.29       $      0.21        $      0.04
                                                                        ==========       ===========        ===========
               Pro forma                                                $     0.01       $     (0.07)       $     (0.04)
                                                                        ==========       ===========        ===========

16.       BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

          The Company has adopted the disclosure  requirements  of SFAS No. 131,
          "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,"
          which establishes  standards for additional disclosure about operating
          segments for interim and annual  financial  statements.  This standard
          requires  financial  and  descriptive  information  be  disclosed  for
          segments  whose  operating  results  are  reviewed  by the Company for
          decisions on resource  allocation.  It also establishes  standards for
          related disclosures about products and services,  geographic areas and
          major customers.

          The  Company  operates in a single  industry  segment as a provider of
          electronic trading infrastructure and technologies to the professional
          trading segment of the brokerage community. With the Company's desktop
          solutions,  stationary and wireless exchange floor systems, electronic
          automation  systems  and  straight-through   processing,  data  entry,
          routing   and   execution   is   streamlined   and   many   processing
          inefficiencies  are eliminated.  The Company's  infrastructure,  which
          consists  of  an  extensive  network  of  electronic  circuits,  links
          industry participants across equities and derivatives markets.

          Our  headquarters  are  located  in  Stamford,  Connecticut.  We  also
          maintain operations in New York, Chicago and London. Our international
          operations are conducted through our subsidiary,  NYFIX Overseas, Inc.
          Each office has the  opportunity  to sell or enter into  subscriptions
          for any of the Company's products and services. However, the operating
          results of the  Company's  products and services are not  individually
          reported nor are they managed or evaluated  individually  by the Chief
          Executive Officer, who is the Company's chief decision maker. As such,
          the Company  does not segment its business by location or products and
          services.

          Identifiable  assets by geographic  location  include assets  directly
          identifiable with those locations.  Corporate assets consist primarily
          of cash and cash equivalents,  investment activities,  and amounts due
          from NYFIX Millennium associated with non-operating activities.

                                       48

<PAGE>

Summarized financial information by geographic location for 2001, 2000 and 1999 is as follows (in 000's):

                                                                    2001                   2000                   1999
                                                              ------------------     ------------------     ------------------
                  Revenues:
                      Stamford and New York                             $32,102                $18,111                 $9,287
                      London                                              6,263                  2,678                  2,636
                      Chicago                                             3,032                  3,191                    286
                      Inter-location sales                                  -                        5                     78
                      Inter-location elimination                            -                       (5)                   (78)
                                                              ------------------     ------------------     ------------------
                   Total revenues                                       $41,397                $23,980                $12,209
                                                              ==================     ==================     ==================

                  Gross profit:
                      Stamford and New York                             $23,775                $12,263                 $5,897
                      London                                              5,400                  2,236                  2,288
                      Chicago                                             2,891                  3,104                    259
                                                              ------------------     ------------------     ------------------

                  Total gross profit                                    $32,066                $17,603                 $8,444
                                                              ==================     ==================     ==================

                  Identifiable assets at December 31:
                      Stamford and New York                             $25,810                $23,832                $13,951
                      London                                              6,731                  2,857                  2,411
                      Chicago                                             1,512                  2,122                    346
                     Corporate                                           74,519                 28,747                 22,120
                                                              ------------------     ------------------     ------------------
                  Total identifiable assets                            $108,572                $57,558                $38,828
                                                              ==================     ==================     ==================

                  Capital expenditures:
                      Stamford and New York                              $6,910                $ 5,925                 $4,184
                      London                                                143                     26                     31
                      Chicago                                                68                    133                     49
                                                              ------------------     ------------------     ------------------
                  Total capital expenditures                             $7,121                $ 6,084                 $4,264
                                                              ==================     ==================     ==================

                  Depreciation and amortization:
                      Stamford and New York                              $5,664                $ 3,244                $ 1,749
                      London                                                657                    366                    209
                      Chicago                                               144                     87                     25
                                                              ------------------     ------------------     ------------------
                  Total depreciation                                     $6,465                $ 3,697                $ 1,983
                                                              ==================     ==================     ==================

17.         INCOME TAXES

            Deferred  income  taxes  reflect  the net tax  effects of  temporary
            differences  between the carrying  amount of assets and  liabilities
            for financial  reporting purposes and the amount used for income tax
            purposes. The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to
            significant  portions of the  deferred  tax assets and  deferred tax
            liability  recognized as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 are presented
            below:

                                       49

<PAGE>
                                                                                  December 31,
                                                                    -----------------------------------
                                                                          2001                 2000
                                                                    --------------      ---------------
            Deferred tax assets:
                 Bad debt expense                                       $ 243,000            $ 181,500
                 Inventory obsolescence                                    34,000               39,600
                 Product development costs                                611,000              375,500
                 Operating loss carryforward                              108,000            1,511,000
                 AMT credit carryforward                                  -                     78,000
                 Other                                                     77,000               69,000
                                                                    --------------      ---------------
                          Total deferred tax assets                     1,073,000            2,254,600
            Less deferred tax liability:
                 Depreciation and amortization                            282,000              158,600
                                                                    --------------     ---------------
                          Net deferred tax amount                        $791,000           $2,096,000
                                                                    ==============      ===============

            As of December 31, 1999,  the Company  established a full  valuation
            allowance  for its  deferred  tax  assets  based  upon  management's
            determination of the amount that would ultimately be realized. Based
            upon the continued  profitability of the Company during 2000 as well
            as  expected  future  profitability,  management  determined  as  of
            December 31, 2000, that a valuation allowance was no longer required
            and reversed the $2,010,000 valuation allowance.

            The exercise of  non-qualified  stock options and the  disqualifying
            dispositions  of incentive  stock options under the Company's  stock
            option plans gives rise to  compensation  which is includable in the
            taxable  income of the  recipients and deductible by the Company for
            federal and state income tax  purposes.  The tax benefit  recognized
            from the utilization of such deductions increased paid-in capital by
            $412,000 and $2,635,000 during the years ended December 31, 2001 and
            2000, respectively.

            The reconciliation between the federal statutory income tax rate and
            the Company's income tax provision is as follows:

                                                                         Year Ended December 31,
                                                            --------------------------------------------------
                                                                2001              2000                 1999
                                                            ------------      -------------       ------------
           Statutory tax rate                                     35%               34%                 34%
           State and local taxes, net of federal
                benefit                                            5                 2                   6
           Alternative minimum tax and other                       --                1                   3
           Valuation allowance                                     --              (27)                (34)
                                                            ------------      -------------       ------------
                                                                  40%               10%                  9%
                                                            ============      =============       ============

                                       50
<PAGE>

          Significant components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:

                                                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                                                         ----------------------------------------------
                                                                              2001           2000              1999
                                                                         -----------      -----------       -----------
            Current:
                 Federal                                                 $ 2,100,640      $ 1,020,555       $      --
                 State and Foreign                                         1,853,000          166,000            94,400
                                                                         -----------      -----------       -----------
                          Total current                                    3,953,640        1,186,555            94,400
                                                                         -----------      -----------       -----------
            Deferred:
                 Federal                                                   1,255,000        1,200,000           321,800
                 State and Foreign                                           218,000          225,000            68,300
                 Decrease in valuation
                     allowance                                                  --         (2,010,300)         (390,100)
                                                                         -----------      -----------       -----------
                          Total deferred                                   1,473,000         (585,300)             --
                                                                         -----------      -----------       -----------
                          Total provision for income taxes               $ 5,426,640      $   601,255       $    94,400
                                                                         ===========      ===========       ===========


18.         VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS


                                                                           Additions
                                                        Balance at         Charged to                          Balance at
                                                        Beginning          Costs and         Deductions         End of
                                                         of Year            Expenses         Write-offs          Year
                                                      --------------    ---------------     -------------     ------------
            Allowance for doubtful accounts:

            December 31, 2001                            $421,000          $ 232,638          $142,638          $511,000
                                                         ========          =========          ========          ========

            December 31, 2000                            $125,000          $ 415,802          $119,802          $421,000
                                                         ========          =========          ========          ========

            December 31, 1999                            $ 92,986          $  44,758          $ 12,744          $125,000
                                                         ========          =========          ========          ========

            Inventory reserve:

            December 31, 2001                            $ 92,000          $ (10,000)         $   --            $ 82,000
                                                         ========          =========          ========          ========

            December 31, 2000                            $ 82,000          $  10,000          $   --            $ 92,000
                                                         ========          =========          ========          ========

            December 31, 1999                            $ 82,000          $    --            $   --            $ 82,000
                                                         ========          =========          ========          ========


19.         EXPORT SALES

            Revenue from export sales,  principally  software sales revenue, was
            $3,963,000, $2,419,000 and $733,000 for the years ended December 31,
            2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.


20.         INVESTMENT IN NYFIX MILLENNIUM

            In September 1999, NYFIX Millennium, L.L.C. ("NYFIX Millennium") was
            formed by  NYFIX,  Inc.  (the  "Company")  and  seven  international
            investment banks and brokerage  firms,  consisting of Deutsche Bank,
            ABN Amro Securities (formerly ING Barings),  Lehman Brothers, Morgan
            Stanley, Alliance Capital (formerly Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co.),
            SG Cowen Securities Corp. and UBS Warburg (the "Initial  Partners").
            Each partner,  including the Company, invested $2.0 million in NYFIX
            Millennium. Each of the Initial Partners

                                       51
<PAGE>

            received 25,000 units of NYFIX Millennium, collectively owning a 50%
            membership interest in NYFIX Millennium, with the Company owning the
            remaining 50%. In addition,  the Company  purchased an option to buy
            from the Initial  Partners an additional 30% membership  interest in
            NYFIX Millennium (the "Option"),  for which the Company paid each of
            the Initial  Partners  281,250  shares of its common  stock,  for an
            aggregate of  1,968,750  shares.  The Option  allowed the Company to
            increase its  membership  interest in NYFIX  Millennium up to 80% of
            the total membership  interests through the exchange of one share of
            its  common  stock  for  each  unit of NYFIX  Millennium  purchased,
            subject  to  adjustment  in the  event  of any  split,  combination,
            reclassification  or other  adjustments to the capital  structure of
            the Company.

            In March 2001, NYFIX Millennium added four more partners, consisting
            of  Bank of  America,  Wachovia  Securities  (formerly  First  Union
            Securities)  and  LabMorgan  Corporation  (as the  successor to J.P.
            Morgan &amp; Co. and Chase H&amp;Q) (the "New  Partners").  Pursuant
            to the terms of the operating  agreement of NYFIX  Millennium,  each
            New Partner  invested $2.0 million in NYFIX  Millennium and received
            25,000 units of NYFIX  Millennium.  The Company  maintained  its 50%
            membership  interest in NYFIX  Millennium  in exchange  for reducing
            certain of its rights to share in future dividend  distributions  of
            NYFIX  Millennium.  The Company  issued  94,000 shares of its common
            stock to each New Partner in return for the same Option noted above,
            with  LabMorgan  Corporation  (as  the  successor  to two  partners)
            receiving 188,000 shares.

            The Company's  Investment  in NYFIX  Millennium  of  $27,500,000  at
            December 31, 2001,  consisted of  $25,500,000  (1,968,750  shares in
            1999 of Company stock x $8.89 and 376,000  shares in 2001 of Company
            stock x $21.28) and a capital cash contribution of $2,000,000. NYFIX
            Millennium  is a  development  stage  company and was  accounted for
            under the equity  method of  accounting  prior to  February 1, 2002.
            (See Note 21.) Pursuant to the Operating Agreement,  as amended, the
            first  $14,000,000  in  losses  will  be  allocated  to the  Initial
            Partners,  which equals the extent of their  capital  investment  in
            NYFIX Millennium.  Losses in excess of $14,000,000,  if any, will be
            allocated to the New Partners up to an additional $8,000,000,  which
            equals the extent of their capital  investment in NYFIX  Millennium.
            No portion of these losses will be borne by the Company. The Company
            has   temporarily   funded  certain   operating  costs  and  capital
            expenditures on behalf of NYFIX Millennium.  Such costs, aggregating
            $5,222,000   and   $1,985,000   at  December   31,  2001  and  2000,
            respectively,  are  reflected  as Due from NYFIX  Millennium  on the
            Company's consolidated balance sheets.

            On October 30, 2001, the Company  entered into a  Subordinated  Loan
            Agreement  for  Equity  Capital  (the "Loan  Agreement")  with NYFIX
            Millennium,  effective  November  30,  2001,  pursuant  to which the
            Company  loaned $6  million  to NYFIX  Millennium.  The  loan,  plus
            accrued interest,  is due on November 30, 2004 and earns interest at
            a rate of 7.5%  per  annum.  The  Loan  Agreement  was  found by the
            National Association of Securities Dealers,  Inc. (the "NASD") to be
            acceptable as a satisfactory  subordination agreement,  effective as
            of November 30,  2001.  Interest on the loan  aggregated  $43,000 at
            December 31, 2001.

            Summarized financial information for NYFIX Millennium follows:

                                                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                                         --------------------------------------------------------
                                                             2001                   2000                1999 *
                                                         ------------          -------------         ------------

                    Net sales                            $    142,000          $       --            $       --
                                                         ============          ============          ============
                    Net loss                             $(11,594,000)         $ (7,370,000)         $ (1,157,000)
                                                         ============          ============          ============

                    At period end:
                    Total assets                         $ 16,347,000          $  9,996,000
                                                         ============          ============
                    Total liabilities                    $ 12,468,000          $  2,524,000
                                                         ============          ============
                    Total members' capital               $  3,879,000          $  7,472,000
                                                         ============          ============

                                       52
<PAGE>

            * Since inception in the third quarter of 1999.

            The Company leases computer and office equipment and office space to
            NYFIX Millennium on a month-to-month  basis pursuant to a management
            agreement  with  NYFIX   Millennium.   Future  payments  from  NYFIX
            Millennium for such leases are as follows:

                                    Year Ending
                                    December 31,                Amount
                                    ------------                ------
                                    2002                      $509,000
                                    2003                       452,000
                                    2004                       448,000
                                    2005                       300,000
                                    2006                         2,000

21.         SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

            In a letter dated January 23, 2002, the Company notified the Initial
            Partners and New Partners of NYFIX  Millennium  that the Company was
            exercising the Option,  effective February 1, 2002 (see Note 20). In
            exchange for the increased  membership interest in NYFIX Millennium,
            the Company paid the Initial  Partners and New Partners an aggregate
            of 296,250  shares of its common  stock,  with each Initial  Partner
            receiving  33,750  shares  of  common  stock  and each  New  Partner
            receiving  15,000 shares of common stock.  As a result,  the Company
            has an 80% membership interest in NYFIX Millennium.  The acquisition
            will be accounted  for as a purchase.  The Company has not completed
            the final  allocation  of the  purchase  price to the  tangible  and
            intangible  assets of NYFIX  Millennium.  Asset  valuations  will be
            performed by an independent  third-party  and are on-going as of the
            date of this filing.

            On March 6, 2002,  the Company  announced that it had acquired a 40%
            ownership  interest in EuroLink,  a privately  held company based in
            Madrid,  Spain,  which offers direct  electronic  access to the U.S.
            equity  markets  from Europe.  The Company  acquired its interest in
            return  for  granting   licensing   and   distribution   rights  and
            $4,000,000. The purchase was financed through available funds. Under
            the terms of the agreement, EuroLink will offer the Company's equity
            terminals,  market access and services to the European  marketplace,
            primarily on a  transaction  fee basis.  The terms of the  agreement
            give the Company the option to increase  its  ownership  interest in
            EuroLink to 80% at a later date. The  acquisition  will be accounted
            for under the equity method.

            On March  12,  2002,  the  Company  announced  that it had  signed a
            definitive agreement to acquire Javelin Technologies,  Inc. Javelin,
            widely  known as one of the pioneers in FIX  (Financial  Information
            exchange Protocol) technology,  has over 1,000 installations at more
            than 300 leading buy and sell-side institutions, exchanges and ECNs,
            including  over  50  clients  in  Europe  and  20 in  Asia.  Javelin
            possesses  the leading  market-share  in the buy-side  institutional
            market for electronic order routing enabling technology. The Company
            will finance the  transaction  with a combination  of  approximately
            $11,000,000  cash and the  issuance of common  stock with a value of
            approximately $44,000,000. The cash portion will be financed through
            available funds. In addition, the Company has negotiated an earn-out
            based on Javelin's  2002 revenues.  The  transaction is scheduled to
            close on March 31, 2002.

            On March  14,  2002,  at a  Special  Meeting  of  Shareholders,  the
            shareholders voted to authorize the transfer of substantially all of
            the Company's assets to a newly created,  wholly-owned subsidiary of
            the Company, as recommended by the Company's Board of Directors. The
            Company   believes  that  the  new  structure  will  permit  greater
            flexibility  in the  management and financing of existing and future
            business  operations.   The  holding  company  structure  will  also
            facilitate the Company's entry into new businesses and the formation
            of joint  ventures or other  business  ventures with third  parties.
            Finally,  the transfer  will further the  objective of operating the
            Company's businesses,  and any additional businesses acquired in the
            future, on a more self-

                                       53
<PAGE>

            sufficient,  independent  economic  basis while  decreasing the risk
            that liabilities attributable to any one of the Company's businesses
            could  be  imposed  upon  one or  more  of the  Company's  unrelated
            businesses

                                       54

<PAGE>



22.         QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

                                                                                Three Months Ended
                                                        -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           March           June            September          December
                                                            31,             30,                30,               31,

                                                        -----------      ----------       ------------       ------------
            2001:

            Total revenues                              $8,422,151       $9,511,359       $ 11,403,640       $12,060,267
                                                        ==========       ==========       ============       ===========

            Gross profit                                $6,481,735       $7,255,404       $  8,958,914       $ 9,370,092
                                                        ==========       ==========       ============       ===========

            Net earnings                                $1,463,542       $1,601,995       $  2,757,943       $ 2,312,444
                                                        ==========       ==========       ============       ===========

            Basic earnings per common
                share
                                                        $     0.06       $     0.06       $       0.10       $      0.08
                                                        ==========       ==========       ============       ===========

            Diluted earnings per common
                share
                                                        $     0.05       $     0.06       $       0.10       $      0.08
                                                        ==========       ==========       ============       ===========

            2000:

            Total revenues                              $4,380,008       $5,534,328       $  6,510,825       $ 7,555,006
                                                        ==========       ==========       ============       ===========

            Gross profit                                $3,229,960       $3,996,419       $  4,760,880       $ 5,615,556
                                                        ==========       ==========       ============       ===========

            Net earnings                                $  763,760       $1,077,059       $  1,665,378       $ 2,170,230
                                                        ==========       ==========       ============       ===========

            Basic earnings per common
                share                                   $     0.03       $     0.04       $       0.07       $      0.09
                                                        ==========       ==========       ============       ===========

            Diluted earnings per common
                share
                                                        $     0.03       $     0.04       $       0.06       $      0.08
                                                        ==========       ==========       ============       ===========


                                       55

</PRE>
</body>
</html>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>form10kex23101805_03272002.htm
<TEXT>
<html>
<head>
<title>sec document</title>
</head>
<body>
<PRE>
                                                                                                                                                EXHIBIT 23.1


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT

We consent to the  incorporation  by reference in  Registration  Statements  No.
333-70037,  No.  333-60314,  No. 333-83920 and No. 333-93943 on Form S-3 and No.
333-95285,  No.  333-81604 and No.  333-62158 on Form S-8 of NYFIX,  Inc. of our
report  dated March 8, 2002 (March 14,  2002 as to Note 21),  appearing  in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K of NYFIX, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2001.




                                                  /S/ DELOITTE &amp; TOUCHE LLP
Stamford, Connecticut
March 28, 2002



</PRE>
</body>
</html>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
