-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 A56E797zW8P/+BVNvxczPfRVvswpYAXjiQuYJfSrQhU3MZupMxz+X/LjkKlMY1G4
 P9mW2Rb84OYWFT0QA5EhXw==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000921895-05-001036.txt : 20050630
<SEC-HEADER>0000921895-05-001036.hdr.sgml : 20050630
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20050630153505
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000921895-05-001036
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20041231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20050630
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20050630

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			NYFIX INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000099047
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN [7373]
		IRS NUMBER:				061344888
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-21324
		FILM NUMBER:		05928388

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		333 LUDLOW STREET
		CITY:			STAMFORD
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06902
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2034258000

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TRINITECH SYSTEMS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940404

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TRANS AIRE ELECTRONICS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19910916
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>form10k01805_12312004.htm
<TEXT>
<html>
<head>
<title>sec document</title>
</head>
<body>
<PRE>

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------

                                    FORM 10-K

                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-21324
                            ------------------------

                                   NYFIX, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          DELAWARE                                        06-1344888
(State or other jurisdiction of          (I.R.S. Employer identification number)
incorporation or organization)

                                333 LUDLOW STREET
                           STAMFORD, CONNECTICUT 06902
                                 (203) 425-8000
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                      None

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:

                    COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $0.001 PER SHARE
                              (Title of each class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has (1) filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [ ] No [X]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate  by check mark  whether  the  registrant  is an  accelerated  filer (as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2). Yes [X] No [ ]

The  aggregate  market value of the voting stock held by  non-affiliates  of the
registrant was approximately  $142 million at the close of the last business day
of the  registrant's  most recently  completed  second  quarter (June 30, 2004).
Solely  for the  purpose  of this  calculation,  shares  held by  directors  and
officers of the  Registrant  have been excluded.  Such  exclusion  should not be
deemed a  determination  by the Registrant that such  individuals  are, in fact,
"affiliates" of the  Registrant.  The amount shown is based on the closing price
of NYFIX common stock as reported on the NASDAQ stock market.

The number of shares of NYFIX Common Stock, par value $0.001,  outstanding as of
May 31, 2005 was 32,442,431.



<PAGE>



                                   NYFIX, INC.
                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004
                                TABLE OF CONTENTS


ITEM     DESCRIPTION                                                        PAGE

                                     PART I

Item  1.   Business............................................................8

Item  2.   Properties.........................................................30

Item  3.   Legal Proceedings..................................................30

Item  4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders................31


                                     PART II

Item  5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder
             Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities................33

Item  6.   Selected Financial Data............................................36

Item  7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
             and Results of Operations........................................37

Item  7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.........74

Item  8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data........................75

Item  9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
             and Financial Disclosure.........................................75

Item  9A.  Controls and Procedures............................................75

Item 9B.   Other Information..................................................79

                                    PART III

Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.................80

Item 11.   Executive Compensation.............................................83

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
             Management and Related Stockholder Matters.......................89

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.....................91

Item 14.   Principal Accountant Fees and Services.............................91

                                     PART IV

ITEM 15.   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.........................93

           Signatures.........................................................97

                                       2

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

        CERTAIN STATEMENTS CONTAINED OR INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN THIS FILING
WITH THE  SECURITIES  AND EXCHANGE  COMMISSION  ON FORM 10-K THAT ARE NOT PURELY
HISTORICAL  ARE  FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS,  WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE PRIVATE
SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995, AND ARE BASED ON MANAGEMENT'S BELIEFS,
CERTAIN ASSUMPTIONS AND CURRENT EXPECTATIONS. THESE STATEMENTS MAY BE IDENTIFIED
BY  THEIR  USE OF  FORWARD-LOOKING  TERMINOLOGY  SUCH  AS THE  WORDS  "EXPECTS,"
"PROJECTS,"   "ANTICIPATES,"   "INTENDS"   AND   OTHER   SIMILAR   WORDS.   SUCH
FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS  INVOLVE  RISKS AND  UNCERTAINTIES  THAT COULD CAUSE
ACTUAL  RESULTS TO DIFFER  MATERIALLY  FROM  THOSE  PROJECTED.  THESE  RISKS AND
UNCERTAINTIES  INCLUDE,  BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO, GENERAL ECONOMIC,  BUSINESS AND
MARKET  CONDITIONS,   COMPETITIVE  PRICING  PRESSURES,  TIMELY  DEVELOPMENT  AND
ACCEPTANCE OF NEW PRODUCTS,  ABILITY TO FURTHER PENETRATE THE FINANCIAL SERVICES
MARKET WITH A FULL RANGE OF OUR  PRODUCTS AND THE HIGHLY  COMPETITIVE  MARKET IN
WHICH WE OPERATE.  CERTAIN OF THESE RISKS AND  UNCERTAINTIES  ARE DISCUSSED MORE
FULLY IN PART II,  MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL  CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS,  FACTORS AFFECTING OPERATING RESULTS AND ELSEWHERE IN
THIS FILING ON FORM 10-K. THE  FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS  CONTAINED HEREIN ARE
MADE AS OF THE DATE  HEREOF AND WE,  EXCEPT AS MAY BE  REQUIRED  BY LAW,  DO NOT
UNDERTAKE ANY OBLIGATION TO UPDATE ANY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS,  WHETHER AS A
RESULT OF FUTURE EVENTS, NEW INFORMATION OR OTHERWISE.

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

        When used in this  Report on Form 10-K,  the terms  "NYFIX,"  "Company,"
"we,"  "us," or "our" mean  NYFIX,  Inc.  and its  subsidiaries.  The  following
glossary of terms is intended to provide a point of reference to the reader.

        "$2  brokers"  refers  to an  extensive  array  of  independent  brokers
operating on the trading floor of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE").

        "AMEX" refers to the American Stock Exchange.

        "APIs" refers to application programming  interfaces,  which is a common
expression in software programming where information is passed between programs.

        "ASP" refers to an application service provider,  which is a third-party
entity that manages and  distributes  software-based  services and  solutions to
customers across a wide area network from a central data center.

        "ATS" refers to an Alternate  Trading System  regulated under Regulation
ATS, which is an industry  accessible  computerized system matching buy and sell
orders from multiple  natural buyers and sellers without the  intervention of an
intermediary such as a Specialist (e.g., NYSE) or Market Maker (e.g., Nasdaq).

        "Audit  Committee"  refers  to  the  Audit  Committee  of our  Board  of
Directors.

        "Best execution" refers to the general  requirement that a broker effect
a  transaction  on  behalf of a client on the most  favorable  terms  reasonably
available under the circumstances.

        "Broker-dealer"  refers  to a person  or firm,  registered  pursuant  to
section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in the business of buying and
selling  securities  as a broker or a dealer.  A broker is an agent who executes
orders on behalf of clients, whereas a dealer acts as a principal and trades for
the dealer's own account.

        "Buy-side"  refers to  institutional  investors such as money  managers,
mutual funds, hedge funds, banks,  insurance companies and pension plans who are
professional participants in the securities markets.

                                       3
<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

        "DOT" refers to the Designated  Order  Turnaround  system,  which is the
electronic system that transmits NYSE member firms' market and day limit orders,
up to specified  sizes in virtually  all Listed  Securities,  through the common
message switch to the proper trading floor  workstation.  Specialists  receiving
orders through DOT execute them in the trading crowd at their posts,  as quickly
as market  interest and activity  permit,  and return reports to the originating
firm's offices via the same electronic circuit that brought them to the floor.

        "DTCC"  refers to the  Depository  Trust and Clearing  Corporation.  The
DTCC, through its subsidiaries,  provides clearance,  settlement and information
services  for  equities,   corporate  and  municipal   bonds,   government   and
mortgage-backed  securities,  over-the-counter  credit  derivatives and emerging
market debt trades.

        "DVP/RVP"  refers to Delivery  Versus  Payment/Receive  Versus  Payment,
which refers to the delivery or receipt of securities  for cash that takes place
on the settlement date of a trade.

        "ECN" refers to an Electronic  Communication  Network. An ECN is a fully
automated,  private  electronic  network  similar to an ATS, which allows market
participants  on an equal basis to match orders and post quotes in the US equity
markets with or without the  participation  of Market Makers or other middlemen.
ECNs permit individuals,  institutions, and Market Makers to directly make their
own market in a particular  stock.  Although  ECNs operate much like  electronic
stock  exchanges,  they are not exchanges as a matter of law.  ECN's offer after
hours trading and anonymity in trading Nasdaq stocks.

        "EuroLink" refers to EuroLink Network, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary.

        "FIX" refers to Financial Information eXchange.

        "FIX  protocol"  refers  to a  messaging  standard  developed  by market
participants  to  enable  real-time  "standard  formatting"  for the  electronic
exchange of order and execution information between broker,  buy-side,  exchange
and back-office trading related systems.

        "FSA"  refers  to  the  Financial  Services  Authority,   which  is  the
replacement  regulating body for the Securities and  Investments  Board ("SIB").
The FSA,  which  came  into  being  on  October  28,  1997,  has all  regulatory
responsibilities for the UK financial services industry.

        "Give up" refers to the action of a broker  excluding his or her name in
a securities transaction that involves two other brokers.

        "Initial  Partners"  refers to the  seven  global  investment  banks and
brokerage firms who, together with the Company, formed NYFIX Millennium in 1999.

        "Institutional  Investor" refers to a financial institution that invests
large  amounts  of  money  in  the  stock,  bond  and  other  financial  markets
professionally  on behalf of other people  (e.g.  a pension or insurance  fund).
This contrasts with an individual or 'retail' investor  investing his or her own
money.

        "Intra-day Funding" refers to commitments from unaffiliated institutions
to provide funding during a trading day.

        "Introducing  Broker"  refers to a broker who is not permitted to accept
money, securities, or property from a customer.

         "ISE"  refers  to  International  Securities  Exchange,  an  electronic
options exchange.

                                       4
<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

        "ITS" refers to the Intermarket Trading System, which began operation in
1978. ITS, is an ECN that links nine US markets: the NYSE, AMEX, Boston ("BSE"),
Chicago ("MSE"),  Cincinnati ("CSE"),  Pacific ("PSE") and Philadelphia ("PHLX")
stock exchanges,  the Chicago Board Options Exchange  ("CBOE"),  and Nasdaq. The
system enables market professionals to interact with their counterparts in other
markets.

        "Javelin"  refers  to  Javelin  Technologies,   Inc.,  our  wholly-owned
subsidiary, and its subsidiaries.

        "Listed  Securities" refers to securities,  such as shares of stocks and
bonds, which are quoted on the NYSE or AMEX.

        "Market Maker" refers to a  broker-dealer  that is willing to accept the
risk of holding a particular number of shares of a particular  security in order
to facilitate trading in that security.

        "NASD" refers to the National  Association of Securities Dealers,  which
governs behavior of member firms.

        "Nasdaq"  refers  to the  Nasdaq  Stock  Market,  which  is the  largest
stock-based equity securities market in the United States of America.

        "New  Partners"  refers to four global  investment  banks and  brokerage
firms who became partners in NYFIX Millennium in 2001.

        "NFA" refers to the National Futures  Association,  which is the futures
industry's  self-regulatory  organization  under  Section  17 of  the  Commodity
Exchange Act.

        "NMS"  refers to the  National  Market  System,  which  consists of nine
over-the-counter  markets - linked  electronically by ITS computers:  AMEX, BSE,
CSE, MSE, NYSE, PSE, PHLX, CBOE and Nasdaq.

        "NOC" refers to a network operations center, which is the physical space
from which a typically large  telecommunications  network is managed,  monitored
and supervised

        "NYFIX Clearing" refers to NYFIX Clearing Corporation,  our wholly-owned
subsidiary.

        "NYFIX   International"   refers  to  NYFIX   International   Ltd.,  our
wholly-owned subsidiary.

        "NYFIX  Millennium"  refers to NYFIX Millennium,  L.L.C.,  our 80%-owned
subsidiary.  The  remaining  20%  is  owned  by  ten  (formerly  eleven)  global
investment banks.

        "NYFIX Network" refers to our  proprietary  owned and operated  networks
connecting brokers, institutions and exchanges.

        "NYFIX  Overseas"  refers  to NYFIX  Overseas,  Inc.,  our  wholly-owned
subsidiary.

        "NYFIX  Partners"  refers  to NYFIX  Partners,  Inc.,  our  wholly-owned
subsidiary.

        "NYFIX Transaction Services" refers to NYFIX Transaction Services, Inc.,
our wholly-owned subsidiary.

        "NYFIX USA" refers to NYFIX USA LLC, our wholly owned subsidiary.

        "NYSE"  refers to the New York Stock  Exchange,  which is the largest of
the nine exchanges in the National Market System.

                                       5

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

        "OBMS"  refers to our  futures  and  derivatives  Order Book  Management
System product.

        "OMS" refers to Order Management System(s).

        "Open outcry"  refers to a public  auction system used for trading where
communication is by shouting and hand signals between traders.

        "Option" refers to an option that the Company purchased from the Initial
Partners and the New Partners to buy an  additional  30%  ownership  interest in
NYFIX Millennium.

        "OTC,"  "OTC  Securities"  or "Over the  Counter  Securities"  refers to
securities  that are not  traded on a listed  exchange,  but  which  are  traded
between  dealers by telephone or computer.  Securities  traded on Nasdaq markets
are OTC Securities.

        "Quote  Aggregator"  refers to an electronic  trading  system capable of
receiving  market data feeds from  multiple  sources and  displaying a composite
screen of prices.

        "Regulation  ATS" refers to the order handling rules the SEC promulgated
in December 1998 relating to the regulation of certain ATSs.

        "Regulation  NMS"  refers to the rules  promulgated  by the SEC in April
2005 relating to US Equity Market structural reform, access fees and market data
availability and revenue allocation among SROs..

        "Renaissance"  refers to  Renaissance  Trading  Technologies,  LLC., our
wholly-owned subsidiary.

        "Sarbanes-Oxley" refers to The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

        "SEC" refers to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.

        "Sell-Side" refers to securities and derivatives brokerage firms trading
as brokers or dealers in securities and derivatives markets.

        "SIAC" refers to the Securities Industry Automation  Corporation,  which
operates  the NYSE and AMEX  automation  and  communications  systems to support
trading, market data reporting, and surveillance activities.

        "SIPC" refers to the Securities Investor Protection  Corporation,  which
provides  certain  protection  for  customers'  accounts  in  the  event  of the
bankruptcy or other liquidation of a broker-dealer.

        "Specialist"  refers  to a  person  on  the  trading  floor  of  certain
exchanges who manages the auction market in specific securities and participates
as an agent and as a principal in those markets.

        "SRO"  refers  to a  Self-Regulatory  Organization,  such as the NYSE or
NASD.

        "STP" refers to  straight-through-processing,  the automation of front-,
middle-, and back-office environments in a "paperless" fashion.

        "US" refers to the United States of America.

        "Upstairs  Traders"  refers to a network of trading  desks for the major
brokerage firms and institutional  investors,  which communicate with each other

                                       6

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

by means of electronic display systems and telephones to facilitate block trades
and program trades.

        "WAN" refers to wide area network  comprising the integration of several
or many inter-connected networks.

                                       7

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

                                     PART I

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

        We restated the accompanying  consolidated  financial statements for the
years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 to reflect  adjustments for misstatements
as further discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL SUMMARY

        NYFIX, founded in 1991, is incorporated in Delaware and headquartered in
Stamford,  Connecticut.  We are an  established  provider  to the  domestic  and
international  financial  markets  of  an  industry  interconnectivity  network,
electronic   trade   communication   technologies,   trading   workstations  and
middle-office  trade  automation  technologies.  Our NYFIX  Network  is a "large
industry  utility"   connecting   broker-dealers,   institutions  and  exchanges
globally. In addition to providing technology,  we provide via the NYFIX Network
a variety of  electronic  execution  services  and  clearing  through our broker
dealer  subsidiaries.  Through  our  datacenters  and central  organization,  we
provide the  underlying  operating  capabilities  of most of the services to our
customers  on a fully  supported  24/7  service  bureau  basis.  We generate our
revenue from technology and transaction fees.

        We own or license all of our products  and services and provide  product
innovation,  development, systems development, data center, network, systems and
help-desk  operations  support to our  markets.  We market  directly  to our end
customers globally and have little reliance upon distribution  partners or other
distributors.

        In addition to our  headquarters  in  Stamford,  we have offices on Wall
Street in New York City,  in London's  Financial  District,  in Chicago,  in San
Francisco,  and in Madrid. We operate redundant data centers in the northeastern
US with data center hubs in London, Amsterdam, Hong Kong and Tokyo.

        We have  organized  and operate our business  within two  segments:  our
Technology Services segment and our Transaction Services segment.

        Our   Technology   Services   segment  is   comprised  of  four  of  our
subsidiaries:  NYFIX  USA,  NYFIX  Overseas,  Javelin,  and  Renaissance.  These
businesses  work  together  as  technology   providers,   focusing  on  offering
trade-management   systems,  a  centralized  industry   order-routing   network,
order-routing software,  exchange-floor  automation systems, exchange and market
access technology and post-trade  processing  systems.  Our Technology  Services
customers consist  primarily of US securities  brokerage firms and international
derivatives   brokerage  firms.  Our  Technology   Services  segment   generates
subscription, capital sale and service revenue.

        Our Transaction Services segment is comprised of six of our subsidiaries
- - NYFIX Millennium,  NYFIX Transaction Services,  and NYFIX Clearing,  which are
NASD  registered   broker-dealers;   NYFIX  Partners,  which  was  approved  for
membership  in the  NFA  in  2002,  is our  Introducing  Broker  for  derivative
transactions; NYFIX International,  which was incorporated in the United Kingdom
on March 29, 2004, is a broker-dealer registered with the FSA in connection with
of our expansion into European and other international markets; and EuroLink. We
acquired the remaining 60% of EuroLink that we did not own,  effective March 29,
2004. We have integrated  EuroLink's  operations,  which represented our initial
transaction efforts in the European markets, into NYFIX International.

                                       8

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

        Our Transaction  Services segment,  as a part of its customer offerings,
utilizes the NYFIX Network globally to provide  electronic  execution  services.
NYFIX Millennium provides an electronic execution venue under Regulation ATS for
trading  in  US  Listed   Equities.   NYFIX   Transaction   Services  and  NYFIX
International  provide  technology and direct market access and execution links.
NYFIX Clearing,  a member of the DTCC, settles and clears transactions on behalf
of NYFIX  Millennium and NYFIX  Transaction  Services.  In addition to providing
direct  electronic  market  access  to all the  major  US  Equity  Markets,  the
Transaction  Services  segment  provides  enhancements to the electronic  market
interaction process, which are designed to improve investor execution results.

        While NYFIX  Partners has not initiated any active  business to date, we
expect to offer derivatives execution services,  on a per-transaction  basis, to
our  current  and  future  buy-side  customers.  We  recently  entered  into one
agreement  for a  clearing  partnership  with one of our  large FCM  clients  to
complete the business  structure  going  forward.  We are also in the process of
integrating  our OBMS offering into our US datacenters as an ASP offering.  When
this  transition  is complete,  which is  anticipated  in 2005,  we expect NYFIX
Partners to become an active Introducing Broker.

        In recent  years,  we  invested  heavily in  pursuing a  growth-oriented
strategy and  organized  those efforts  largely  through our  subsidiaries.  Our
investment  efforts  include  sustaining  and  growing our  original  technology
business  servicing broker dealers during  challenging  market  conditions.  Our
efforts have focused on developing and  penetrating  new markets and introducing
new technologies that can change the traditional  methods used to manage trading
flows in the  buy-side  institutional  market  place,  a large  market place not
previously serviced by us.

        After  the  introduction  of our  NYFIX  Network  in 1998,  although  we
experienced  quarter over quarter revenue growth from 1999 through 2001, we also
generated operating losses.  Thereafter, as a result of the impact of the tragic
events  of  September  11,  2001  on our  "broker-centric"  customer  base,  the
subsequent  downturn  in the  financial  markets  in  2001  and  2002,  and  the
fixed-cost base of our acquired subsidiaries,  we have not been able to generate
sufficient  revenue to offset our operating  costs and, thus,  have continued to
experience  operating  losses.  We believed  and still  believe  that  increased
adoption and  acceptance of electronic  and  computerized  processes will hasten
changes  in the US  equity  market  structure  and the  distribution  chain  for
financial markets.

        As an  established  provider  with a  track  record  of  innovation,  we
believed  and still  believe  that our  decision to continue to invest  during a
period of  challenges in the  financial  markets in recent  years,  was not only
necessary  from a  re-positioning  perspective,  but is  also  supported  by our
assessment  that larger  opportunities  will  develop for us in an  increasingly
electronically operated environment.

        Our NYFIX Network  provides us with a valuable  resource for growth.  We
believe that our ability to embed products that deliver  improvements  in speed,
quality  of  execution,  and cost  efficiency  to our  customers  provides  us a
competitive advantage.

ACQUISITIONS

        The  following  represents  summaries  of our  recent  acquisitions  and
investments that led to the current structure of our two business segments.

TECHNOLOGY SERVICES SEGMENT

RENAISSANCE

        Renaissance was formed to commercialize our Nasdaq trading platform (the
"Platform").  Our key considerations for the acquisition of Renaissance included
the  ability  to sell  our  products  into  the OTC  market,  or by  integrating
Renaissance  features into existing NYFIX products to enable customers to have a
single view and access to the OTC and listed marketplaces from one workstation.

        In  the  fourth  quarter  of  2002,  we  acquired  an  18%  interest  in
Renaissance.  In connection with our investment,  we acquired, for $1.0 million,
the  intellectual  property  rights and source code to the Platform from a major

                                       9

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

bank and brokerage firm, and contributed such  intellectual  property rights and
source  code to  Renaissance.  In the third  quarter of 2003,  we  acquired  the
remaining 82% of Renaissance.

        The total  purchase  price for  Renaissance  was  $11.8  million,  which
included: (i) the issuance of 821,939 shares of our common stock at an aggregate
value of $4.1  million;  (ii)  promissory  notes payable in shares of our common
stock or cash, at our option,  with a fair value at the acquisition date of $2.7
million;  (iii) cash of $4.4 million,  which we loaned or funded to Renaissance;
and (iv) the source code Platform  acquired by us from an unrelated  third party
and contributed to Renaissance with a fair value of $1.0 million. These amounts,
aggregating  $12.2  million,  were offset by 60,000  shares of our common stock,
which we  acquired  from  Renaissance,  with a fair  value of $0.4  million.  In
return,  we received net  tangible  assets with a fair value of $0.5 million and
intangible assets of $3.1 million, resulting in goodwill of $8.2 million.

JAVELIN

        Javelin  specializes  in the  development  of the actual  underlying FIX
protocol software used by third party in-house or vendor based  order-management
or  portfolio-management  systems.  In utilizing  the FIX  protocol  technology,
companies can eliminate the high costs and associated  risks of developing their
own proprietary  network links and implementing a non-standard  protocol.  NYFIX
was an early supporter and adopter of the FIX protocol.  We provided software to
third  parties,  which  competed  with  Javelin,  until  1998,  when we  focused
Javelin's FIX development  resources and expertise on imbedding the FIX protocol
directly  into the  NYFIX  network  and our  portfolio  of  products.  Given the
significant  market  penetration  and ongoing  distribution  relationships  with
third-party  order  and  portfolio   management  systems   providers,   our  key
considerations  for the  acquisition  of Javelin  included  the  ability to more
quickly  penetrate the buy-side  market,  cross-selling  multiple  layers of FIX
dependent product  offerings,  including  cross-selling of our core products and
transaction  services,  and a single  point of  electronic  broker and  exchange
access  across all major  domestic  and  international  equity  and  derivatives
exchanges.

        In the first quarter of 2002, we acquired 100% of the outstanding  stock
of Javelin. The total purchase price was $54.7 million, which we financed with a
combination  of (i) cash of $10.0 million;  (ii) 2,784,896  shares of our common
stock  having a fair value of $41.2  million;  and (iii)  493,699  shares of our
common  stock having a fair value of $3.5  million  reserved  for issuance  upon
exercise of Javelin  stock  options  assumed by us. In return,  we received  net
tangible assets with a fair value of $4.0 million and intangible  assets, net of
the tax effect, of $5.2 million, resulting in goodwill of $45.5 million.

        Of the  aforementioned  purchase price, $1.0 million in cash and 270,945
shares of our common  stock,  having a fair  value of $4.0  million at March 31,
2002,  were being  held in escrow by an  unrelated  party,  subject to a working
capital  adjustment.   On  March  15,  2004,  a  representative  of  the  former
shareholders  of Javelin  executed a settlement  agreement  with us that,  among
other  things,  paid us $1.2  million and  distributed  the shares of our common
stock held in the escrow fund to the former  Javelin  shareholders.  We recorded
the $1.2  million of net  proceeds  received  from the  settlement  in the first
quarter of 2004 as a reduction in goodwill.

                                       10

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

TRANSACTION SERVICES SEGMENT

EUROLINK

        On March 6, 2002, we acquired a convertible  preferred stock interest in
EuroLink,  with its  operations  based in  Madrid,  for  $4.0  million  in cash.
EuroLink offers the European securities industry direct electronic access to the
US equity markets from Europe.  EuroLink offers our equity products and services
to the European  marketplace,  primarily  on a  transaction  fee basis.  Our key
consideration  for the  acquisition  of EuroLink was the expected  synergy to be
achieved by combining  EuroLink with NYFIX  International,  our recently  formed
London-based   broker-dealer   subsidiary  through  which  we  plan  to  capture
electronic order flow to and from the US and within Europe.

        The  preferred  stock  automatically  converted  into a 40% common stock
interest on March 6, 2004.  Effective  March 29, 2004, we acquired the remaining
60% of EuroLink  that we did not  already  own for $24,000 in cash and  one-year
promissory  notes issued and payable in shares of our common  stock or cash,  at
our option, having an aggregate fair value of $0.5 million. We intend to pay the
notes  using  shares of our common  stock.  Due to the delay in issuing our 2004
consolidated  financial statements,  we were unable to issue our common stock to
satisfy this debt. We intend to settle this  obligation  through the issuance of
common stock as soon as practicable  subsequent to the filing of our 2004 Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

        The  total  purchase  price  for  100% of  EuroLink,  consisting  of our
pre-acquisition  equity  investment basis of $3.0 million,  notes receivable and
advances  of  $1.0   million,   the   promissory   notes  of  $0.5  million  and
acquisition-related  expenses of $0.1 million,  was $4.6 million.  The excess of
the  purchase  price  over the fair value of the net  assets  acquired  was $2.9
million and has been recorded as goodwill.

NYFIX MILLENNIUM

        NYFIX  Millennium,  a  broker-dealer,  developed  an  ATS,  which  is an
electronic  system that  matches  buyers and sellers in a  completely  anonymous
environment.

        In  1999,   NYFIX   Millennium   was  formed  by  us  and  seven  global
international  investment  banks and brokerage firms  consisting of the "Initial
Partners:" Deutsche Bank US Financial Markets, ABN Amro Securities (formerly ING
Barings),  Lehman Brothers,  Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Equity Investments Ltd.,
Alliance  Capital  Management  (formerly  Sanford C.  Bernstein &amp; Co.),  Societe
Generale Investment Corporation (formerly SG Cowen) and UBS Warburg. The Initial
Partners  collectively invested $14.0 million in exchange a collective ownership
interest  of 50% in NYFIX  Millennium.  We invested  $2.0  million and owned the
remaining  50%.  We  purchased  from the  Initial  Partners  an option to buy an
additional  30% ownership  interest  (for a total of 80% ownership  interest) in
NYFIX Millennium (the "Option") by us issuing to the Initial Partners our common
stock with a fair value of $34.6  million.  The Option,  which had no expiration
date, was  exercisable at any time, by issuing  additional  shares of our common
stock to the Initial Partners.  The fair value of our common stock issued to the
Initial  Partners  was  $20.6  million  in  excess  of the $14  million  Initial
Partners' cash equity investment in NYFIX Millennium.  We allocated $4.2 million
to the fair  value of the Option and wrote off the  remaining  $16.4  million in
1999.

        During 2001, NYFIX  Millennium  added four "New Partners"  consisting of
Bank of America,  Wachovia  Securities  (formerly  First Union  Securities)  and
LabMorgan  Corporation  (formerly two partners J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. and Chase H&amp;Q).
The New Partners  collectively invested $8.0 million in exchange for a ownership
interest in NYFIX  Millennium.  To maintain our 50% ownership  interest in NYFIX
Millennium,  the Initial Partners agreed to be diluted and we reduced certain of
our  rights to share  future  dividend  distributions  of NYFIX  Millennium.  We
purchased from the New Partners an option,  similar to the Option purchased from
the Initial Partners,  to buy an additional 30% ownership  interest (for a total
of 80% ownership  interest) in NYFIX Millennium by issuing our common stock with
a fair value of $8.4 million to the New  Partners.  The fair value of our common
stock  issued to the New Partners was $0.4 million in excess of the $8.0 million

                                       11

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

New Partners' cash equity investment in NYFIX Millennium. We allocated this $0.4
million to the fair value of the Option. Hereinafter, references to "the Option"
include the option received from both the Initial Partners and the New Partners.

        Effective  February  1, 2002,  we  exercised  the  Option and  increased
ownership  interest  in NYFIX  Millennium  to 80%,  by  issuing  to the  Initial
Partners and New Partners shares of our common stock,  with a fair value of $4.5
million.  The excess of the  aggregate  purchase  price of $9.1 million over the
fair value of the net assets  acquired  was $7.1  million  and was  recorded  as
goodwill.  Some of our key  considerations  for the acquisition of an additional
30% ownership interest in NYFIX Millennium included our ability to control NYFIX
Millennium's  operations to effect  changes in its business model as a result of
the attractiveness of the synergies anticipated with our recently-acquired NYFIX
Transaction Services broker-dealer and soon-to-be acquired Javelin business.

NYFIX TRANSACTION SERVICES

        In December  2001,  we acquired an inactive  broker-dealer  for $34,000,
which we renamed NYFIX  Transaction  Services.  NASD approved NYFIX  Transaction
Services'  broker-dealer status in May 2002 and it started generating revenue as
of July 1,  2002.  NYFIX  Transaction  Services  provides  electronic  execution
services, primarily to domestic and international broker-dealers and specialized
trading firms. Our key  considerations  for the acquisition of NYFIX Transaction
Services  included the  attractiveness  of the synergies  anticipated with NYFIX
Millennium  and the  ability to provide a  broker-sponsored  alternative  to our
customers. The $34,000 purchase price was allocated to goodwill.

MARKETS - GENERAL

        Our products and services  provide a specialized  set of technology  and
technology driven execution  services to the domestic and international  markets
for trading in  financial  instruments.  In order of  priority,  we focus on the
equities and  exchange-traded  derivatives  markets.  Through the application of
technology  and  business  concepts,  we automate  work-flows,  both at the user
work-station level and in the interactive  process of transmitting and executing
orders  between  buy-side  institutional  investors,   brokers,   exchanges  and
alternative market venues including ECNs and ATSs.

        We only provide  solutions to  organizations  professionally  engaged in
proprietary trading or handling of customer orders in the financial markets. Our
customer list includes more than 50 of the top 100 US brokerage firms, 40 of the
top 200 buy-side  institutions,  and a number of US and international  brokerage
firms and buy-side institutional investors which trade in markets outside of the
US.

        In the last ten years,  market  forces and  regulations  have created an
industry wide transition from voice and telephone  based  securities  trading to
computerized  order-handling,  transmission and real-time transaction compliance
recording.

        Increasingly in the last several years, we believe fund-holders, pension
plans,  professional  end-investors and market regulators have become focused on
the conflicts that exist in the long standing practices in which  money-managers
or institutional  investors  direct their  order-flow and commission  dollars to
brokers,  based on the  brokers'  favorable  bundling  of  executions  services,
distribution  of initial public and secondary  offerings,  commitment to deliver
research, entertainment and reimbursement of services used by money-managers and
institutional  investors.  The search for optimal  execution quality and minimal
market impact has become a focus of investors and regulators,  prompting changes
and proposed changes in regulation and investor  charters,  as well as increased
calls for "unbundling" of broker-provided research,  reimbursement and execution
services and more transparency in reporting the existence of such relationships.

                                       12

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

        With this increased focus on prioritizing investor execution results, we
believe that there is a market  opportunity for direct  electronic market access
integrated with computerized enhancements that are designed to optimize investor
execution  results.  We also  believe  that  there is an  increasing  market for
documenting and supporting transaction costs.

        Our main  growth  strategy,  based  on our  established  technology  and
investments  in new  technologies  and market  segments,  is to respond to these
market  developments  with a unified packaging of our NYFIX Network as a "global
utility." We offer  products  that are  designed to address the  above-described
needs while providing automatic and seamless unification of the data-elements of
trade-management,   trade-routing,   market   access,   computerized   execution
enhancements and real-time transaction statistics.

        For our traditional  Technology Service segment, we see our strategy for
2005 as effectively managing our customer base. While we see limited opportunity
for revenue growth,  we believe that we have the opportunity to generate profits
and maintain this strategically  important component of our overall product mix.
We believe we can  maintain  our  position as a leading  provider of  technology
solutions.  While  the  market  continues  to  change,  our  goal is to focus on
"quality" revenue and enhanced profitability.

        We are a leading  provider  in the US equity  market of  exchange  floor
systems and advanced electronic gateways to connect exchanges, such as the NYSE,
and of trader  workstation  products for "sales" and "block"  traders working at
the trading desk of a typical large brokerage firm. We own and lease  stationary
workstations  and mobile  systems to our customers on the floor of the NYSE and,
via our NYFIX Network,  typically  process several hundred million shares a day,
representing  a significant  market share of the NYSE volume.  With the movement
away from the  traditional  floor-broker  open outcry  exchanges  to  electronic
environments,  as  seen in  almost  all  international  equity  and  derivatives
exchanges and gradually but  increasingly in the US, the interaction  within and
among these markets has changed.  We believe this will change further due to the
trading system  technology that is available coupled with new and updated market
regulations.  There have been several  regulatory changes which we believe favor
and  ultimately  mandate  that  the  type of  technologies  that we  provide  be
integrated  into  daily  trading  processes  for  both on  floor  and off  floor
operations.  Examples of SEC regulations include: Regulation 123, which mandates
on the floor trade  reporting  requirements;  Regulation  344, which  formalizes
business continuity process requirements:  and the latest, Regulation SHO, which
describes short sale handling.  Regulation NMS mandates  intermarket  protection
against  trade-throughs for automated  markets,  which we believe will result in
significant change in the physical call auction market currently in place at the
NYSE and AMEX.  There  appears  to be an  industry  consensus,  based on comment
letters received by the SEC, that market participants should have access to auto
execution and auto quotation,  thereby  reducing the manual processes that exist
today on the floor of the NYSE and AMEX.

        We are  responding to the  evolution of call based auction  markets into
competing quote based markets with our NYFIX Renaissance offering.  Our products
assist our  customers in managing  this  potential  transition  away from a call
auction market for Listed Securities to a quote-based market.

        While the broker needs more sophisticated  technology to interact with a
much faster  hybrid  market  structure,  many  institutional  investors  who use
computerized  systems  to  transmit  orders  to their  brokers,  and in turn the
market, are seeing a changing role for the traditional broker. This narrowing of
the gap between the institutional  investors'  systems and those of the exchange
markets is  illustrated,  we believe,  by the fact that many orders today travel
"hands-free"  from the  institutional  investor's  computer  systems  via broker
electronic  systems  to the  exchange  or other  execution  venue and back after
execution without any human intervention. For our sell-side brokerage customers,
we believe that the  development of new  categories of value added  capabilities
can provide operating efficiencies that could help them generate cost efficiency
from a potential de-emphasis of their floor based operations. One example is the

                                       13

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

use of NYFIX's  proprietary  algorithms  that  simulate  the behavior of a human
intermediary.  NYFIX OMS  clients  pay for the usage of these  products on a per
share basis as opposed to a fixed cost model.

SEGMENT OVERVIEW

        Our  segments  are  responsible  for all  customer  facing  arrangements
relating to providing  products and services.  Financial  information by segment
and geographic area is set forth in Note 16, "Business  Segment  Information" of
our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as noted in the Index.

OUR TECHNOLOGY SERVICES SEGMENT

PRINCIPAL MARKETS

        The US equity  market is made up of Listed,  OTC and third market traded
stocks.  Listed stocks are traded on the floors of the NYSE,  the AMEX and other
regional  exchanges.  OTC stocks are traded in electronic market centers such as
Nasdaq,  Archipelago and ECNs and ATSs,  which include NYFIX  Millennium.  Third
market traded stocks are exchange  listed  securities that are not traded on the
floor of the NYSE.

        To  trade  in  any of the  markets,  orders  must  be  represented  by a
broker-dealer  subject to  regulation  by the SEC,  the NASD and the  particular
exchange.  Those  who  directly  represent  orders on an  exchange  must also be
members of that  exchange.  Brokers  who are not  exchange  members  place their
orders for that exchange through member brokers.

        Electronic  exchange  markets,   market  forces,  and  regulations  have
resulted in the demand for  technology to facilitate  all aspects of the trading
processes  between  customers,   correspondent  brokers,   member  brokers,  the
exchanges,   Nasdaq,   and   alternative   market   venues.   This  emphasis  on
computerization  and automation is sometimes referred to as "paperless  trading"
and STP.

        Since  2003,  both the  NYSE and  Nasdaq  have  experienced  significant
changes and challenges that will have continued through 2005. ECNs and ATSs have
increased the competitive  pressures on both the NYSE and Nasdaq,  and attention
from  regulators  and  buy-side  institutions  could lead to changes in the NYSE
specialist  system.  Depending  on the nature of the  changes,  we believe  such
changes could negatively  impact the future sales of technology to support floor
brokers working for firms operating directly on the floor of the NYSE.

        Other developments could have a different impact.  Increased competition
has  resulted in quotes for the same stock from  multiple  market  centers  with
different  systems.  At the same time, brokers have an obligation to obtain best
execution  for  their  customers.  In  addition,  top-tier  sell-side  firms  in
particular  are  restructuring  their  trading  desks to organize  securities by
industry  sector rather than by the market in which a given  security is traded.
We offer central market access  technology  designed to address  multiple market
centers and direct orders to the market center  representing  the best execution
opportunity  at any given  time and  high-speed  systems  that can  handle  high
trading  volumes,  support  connectivity to multiple market execution venues and
adhere to the compliance and regulatory  specifications  that are unique to each
different market center.

        The   international   derivatives   market  has  experienced   increased
consolidation  of trading  activities  across all asset classes and  competition
between  market  centers  quoting the same or each  other's  instruments.  NYFIX
Overseas established connectivity to over twenty global derivative exchanges and
has provided for its major global  customers the ability to route orders between
their  global  order  books  covering  three  geographical  regions - the United
States,  Europe and the Pacific Rim. These  exchanges  include the major Futures
and  Equity  markets,   such  as  the  pan-European   Exchange,   including  the

                                       14

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

London-based  International  derivatives market, Liffe ("Euronext");  the London
Stock Exchange ("LSE");  the European  derivatives  exchange,  Eurex;  Germany's
Xetra;  the Chicago  Mercantile  Exchange  ("CME");  the Chicago  Board of Trade
("CBOT"); and the regional exchanges in Montreal, Sydney, Hong Kong and Tokyo.

CURRENT BUSINESS AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

        Our Technology  Services segment  generates  revenue  primarily  through
subscription  sales  of  its  products  and  services  to  sell-side  securities
brokerage firms in the US and Europe. These products and services include broker
desktop  OMS,  exchange  floor  systems,  exchange and market  access  gateways,
clearing and  back-office  gateways,  FIX engines and monitoring  products,  and
networked counterparty  connectivity through our NYFIX Network. We offer similar
products  and  services,  except for  counterparty  connectivity,  to  sell-side
brokerage firms in international derivatives markets.

        In the US equity markets,  our Technology  Services  segment has derived
most of its revenue primarily from our automation  products and services for the
Listed Securities  marketplace,  which encompasses trading on the NYSE, the AMEX
and  regional  exchanges.  During  2004,  as a  result  of  our  acquisition  of
Renaissance,  we continued to expand our sell-side  trader  workstation  product
portfolio to target the Nasdaq OTC market.

        We are also examining the market for several post trading and compliance
related  products and services that can  potentially  be delivered via our NYFIX
Network. The recent release of our NYFIX Sidekick product in 2004 represents our
first offering of transaction cost analyses.  NYFIX Sidekick,  which is embedded
within our NYFIX  Network,  evaluates the quality of trade  executions on a real
time basis for our customers.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS AND METHODS OF DISTRIBUTION

        We primarily sell products  directly to end-customers and distribute our
services  through  the  NYFIX  Network.  Capital  sales are  delivered  with the
customer option of using the NYFIX Network  facilities or they can provide their
own.  Products  distributed this way are the Javelin  software  products and the
OBMS derivatives trading platform.

        For the  brokerage  (or  sell-side)  community,  we  provide  a range of
services,  available  through  our NYFIX  Network.  The NYFIX  Network  provides
brokerage  firms with  connectivity  to their  buy-side  customers as well as to
various exchanges,  ECNs and ATSs. The NYFIX Network also provides  connectivity
to $2 brokers.  Our  Technology  Services  segment offers OMS for exchange floor
trading,  including a wireless  broker  handheld,  which enables  exchange floor
customers  to  receive  orders  electronically  from  trading  desks  and  route
execution information, all in real-time. The segment offers a variety of trading
workstation products for brokerage firm trading desks, a series of available OMS
options and a number of auxiliary services with our OMS products.  These include
interfaces  to  various  back  office  systems,   data  storage  and  retrieval,
electronic  submission  of trade  data to NYSE  systems  and other  services  to
facilitate STP.

        For buy-side  institutional  investors,  including  investment managers,
mutual and pension  fund  managers  and hedge  funds,  our  Technology  Services
segment provides  domestic and  international  connectivity to a large number of
sell-side  brokerage  counterparties  and gateways to market venues available to
and requested by the buy-side. We differentiate  ourselves by providing a number
of products and services  complementing our connectivity  offering.  Some of our
complementary   technology   services  are  FIX  Engines,  a  FIX  Certification
department,  a FIX  expert  help-desk  providing  streamlined  connectivity  and
systems testing with counter-parties, independent real-time storage and recovery
of orders and executions,  real-time  best-execution  order monitoring and other
smart tools. Cross-selling  opportunities exist and are being pursued by both of
our segments.

                                       15

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.


THE NYFIX NETWORK:  A PRODUCT DISTRIBUTION PLATFORM AND A PRODUCT IN ITSELF

        The NYFIX Network  refers to our  proprietary  data centers and domestic
and international WAN infrastructure.  Through our NYFIX Network, we provide the
technology and infrastructure  for trade  communication and global order routing
between buy-side and sell-side institutions, numerous exchange floors, and other
electronic trade execution venues, such as ECNs and ATSs.

        Our  focus on high  availability  in the  design  of our  data  centers,
systems and network,  and many  available  end-points  are in our view important
competitive  elements in our offering.  Further information on our data centers,
systems and network is outlined  under the  "Technology  Operations"  section in
this Report.

        Our network provides several layers of services, including:

        o    Basic  high-speed  connections  to a  large  number  of  end-points
             (counterparties  and exchanges) on a secure  financial  transaction
             network;

        o    Centralized  certification of connected  parties in compliance with
             FIX; and

        o    A simplified, centralized one-to-many communication set-up for each
             party via a main NYFIX hub.

        We  differentiate  ourselves from basic  point-to-point  circuit network
providers by integrating more systems and operational capabilities directly into
our network.

        In  addition  to these  basic  functions,  we deliver a second  layer of
central gateway services to a number of diverse trading and post trading venues,
often  converting and managing  special host systems needed to communicate  with
each  particular  venue.  This unified  approach  saves the customer the need to
support multiple dedicated circuits and systems and changes to such systems as a
result of ongoing advances in technology.

        For the third layer of network  products and services,  we introduced in
2004 a number of value added  products for  independent,  benchmarked  real-time
monitoring  of  trading  activity  and  quality  of  execution  on all  customer
connections available via our NYFIX Network.

        In addition to using our NYFIX Network to provide  connectivity  between
parties and venues,  we use our NYFIX Network as an ASP, or service  bureau,  to
distribute our customer server  application  products,  such as trading stations
and exchange floor stationary or wireless systems. In this ASP environment,  the
server  applications  (e.g.,  back-end  systems and  databases)  are  physically
located in our data centers and the customer  applications  (the  front-end user
application)  are distributed via high-speed data circuits to the customer.  The
benefits to the customer and ourselves include the logistical  delivery benefits
and the ability for us to more  efficiently and effectively  support our systems
and operations.

CUSTOMER SERVER APPLICATION PRODUCTS

        The  following  is a  description  of our  customer  server  application
products:

                                       16

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

TRADER WORKSTATION PRODUCTS

        Our trader  workstations  provide  electronic  order  routing  and order
management. The workstations are touchpad-based or desktop software applications
that enable  sell-side  traders to monitor and manage the flow and  execution of
equity  and  derivative  orders.  The OMS use the FIX  protocol  to  connect  to
brokerage firms, major global market centers, many regional exchanges,  ECNs and
ATSs.

        NYFIX Platinum is our offering of a combined  Listed  Securities and OTC
trading  system.  NYFIX Platinum was created by integrating our existing OMS for
Listed Securities trading, FIXTrader, with the acquired Renaissance platform for
OTC securities.

        FIXTrader  provides a complete  order  management  solution for upstairs
traders:  electronic entry and routing of orders and executions between buy-side
institutions, sales and block desks and exchange floor booths.

        The Renaissance  Trader  Workstation  market making  application for OTC
securities  includes  trade  automation  processes  for fee based  trading on an
agency basis, smart order handling, and automatic preventive compliance handling
functions.

        The NYFIX  suite of client  trading  products  is  intended  to  provide
enterprise-level  electronic  trading  solutions  that meet  customer  needs and
industry requirements for front, middle, and back office trade operations.

GLOBAL DERIVATIVES AND EQUITY TRADING PLATFORM

        NYFIX Overseas products provides a STP solution through electronic order
entry,  order-routing and tracking  capabilities on a global platform,  enabling
its customers to replace several  fragmented systems that exist within the major
brokerage firms.

        The core component of the NYFIX Overseas product offering is OBMS, which
is part of the overall  system  implemented on internal or external order desks,
trading desks, and on the floor booths of open outcry exchanges. OBMS provides a
quick and efficient  execution  platform with pre-trade  risk, and an order book
and trade management facility for all order types covering direct access to over
twenty major global electronic  exchanges in Europe, the US and the Asia/Pacific
Rim region.

        In addition to the core OBMS and  exchange  access,  the NYFIX  Overseas
offering  provides  several  other  components  including  a customer  front-end
trading web browser connectivity,  pre-trade risk controls,  desk management for
open outcry floors and access to additional  electronic  exchanges and back- and
middle-office  systems  through  our FIX  based  gateway  APIs.  NYFIX  Overseas
utilizes its gateways to enable individual OBMS installations to be synchronized
and communicate in real-time  globally.  Our customers are supported  around the
clock via help desk support in London, Chicago and Manila.

EXCHANGE FLOOR AUTOMATION

        Our  exchange   systems  are   comprised  of   stationary   floor  booth
applications  and wireless  handheld systems for order management and routing of
market looks and real-time market information. Our exchange systems also provide
access  services  to  exchange  provided  execution  facilities.  We  streamline
customer  access by  providing  real-time  conversion  from the FIX  protocol to
exchange proprietary access protocols.  We deliver these exchange floor products
over our NYFIX Network.

FLOORREPORT AND MOBILEBROKER

        Our  FloorReport   system  provides  brokerage  firms  with  a  complete
electronic OMS for exchange trading and floor operations.  FloorReport  provides

                                       17

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

integrated market looks and includes MobileBroker, a handheld trading device for
wireless  communications with other systems on the exchange floor and traders on
the member firms' trading desks.

FIX ENGINE TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTS

        Developed by Javelin,  our APPIA product is a FIX engine and enables FIX
message handling and  connectivity.  The APPIA software  supports many operating
systems and presents several APIs.

        Instant  Integrator  is  middleware  software  based  on the  APPIA  FIX
technology. Instant Integrator allows a legacy, or non-standard,  order handling
system to communicate using FIX.

        Tradescope is our product  designed for use by operations  and help-desk
staff to  monitor  the APPIA  FIX  engine  and our  connections  in a  real-time
production environment.

        FIXcertier is built on the APPIA FIX  technology  and is a platform that
is used to automate FIX  certification  testing.  This product was introduced in
2004 and is commercially  available.  In addition, this product is used by NYFIX
internally to make product operations more efficient.

        C-router,  which is a "rules-based" routing module, has been added as an
optional enhancement to the APPIA FIX engine software.  The routing component is
for sale as an add-on to the base FIX engine.

PRODUCTION FIX SERVICES: SYSTEMS INTEGRATION AND CERTIFICATION

        Although the FIX protocol is a standard,  connecting FIX systems to each
other  requires  effort,  skill  and  resources.  We  have  systems  integration
specialists  responsible  for enabling  connections to our FIX network.  We have
invested  substantially  in  lab  and  pre-production   facilities  to  build  a
documented  knowledge base of FIX integrations  that we use to cross-connect the
over 430 different  customer  systems  within our NYFIX  Network.  Each customer
system must pass a formal certification test before being enabled for production
trading using our NYFIX Network.

PRODUCT SUPPORT AND SERVICE

        We are  committed  to  providing  our  customers  with high  quality and
reliable products and services.  As part of our NYFIX Network, we provide secure
and reliable  electronic  connectivity,  certify all  connections to each firm's
trading  counter-parties  and provide  around-the-clock  service and support. We
maintain redundant data centers as part of our NYFIX Network.

        In our industry, service and specifically quality of service is measured
in response time to resolve a systems issue which may be causing a trading issue
affecting  business.  We maintain  four  categories  of help-desk  support to be
responsive and efficiently address any systems or trading issue that our clients
may encounter.  The four  categories of support are separated into our NOC team,
technical support desk, trading  application  support desk and execution service
and trade processing support desk.

BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND DISASTER RECOVERY PLANNING OUTSOURCING

        Following  the tragic events of September 11, 2001 and the 2003 blackout
in New York City and elsewhere,  business continuity and disaster recovery plans
have become more  important in the  technological  infrastructure  for financial
services  firms.  Globalization  and  increased  reliance  on  STP  and  process
automation  have also  increased  attention to business  continuity and disaster
recovery planning.

                                       18

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

        Supported by two redundant,  high-availability data centers, part of our
offerings include  capabilities for data  communication and data storage and the
subsequent retrieval of the customers' current and historical trading data.

OUR TRANSACTION SERVICES SEGMENT

PRINCIPAL MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS

        Our  Transaction  Services  segment  customer  base is comprised of NYSE
member firms,  non-member securities firms (NASD registered),  non-US securities
firms,  registered investment advisors and US hedge funds.  Transaction Services
segment  customers  fall  into  three  categories  based on their  clearing  and
execution needs.

        Currently,  the customers of our NASD registered  broker-dealers consist
primarily  of US  securities  brokerage  firms  and  US  buy-side  institutions,
including  hedge funds,  mutual  funds and other  institutional  investors.  Our
Transaction Services segment primarily generates revenue from the application of
commissions  charged on executed  trades to the  following  three  categories of
customers:

        o    Member,  non-Member and non-US  securities firms (sell-side  firms)
             are either  self-clearing or rely on a correspondent  clearing firm
             to clear on their behalf with our Transaction Services segment. Our
             Transaction Services segment bills per share execution  commissions
             to its customers on a monthly  basis.  These  securities  brokerage
             firms primarily  utilize our NYFIX  Millennium,  FIXTrader,  direct
             electronic access and algorithmic trading products described below.

        o    US hedge  funds  (buy-side  firms)  rely on prime  brokers to clear
             their trades. These customers primarily utilize our Patriot,  NYFIX
             Millennium and direct  electronic  access and  algorithmic  trading
             products, described below.

        o    Registered  Investment  Advisors (buy-side firms) rely on custodial
             banks to clear their trades.  These trades are commonly referred to
             as  DVP/RVP  clearing.  These  are  generally  net  trades in which
             Transaction  Services segment  commission  charges are paid through
             the settlement and clearing process,  which is typically three days
             after trade date.  Registered investment advisors primarily utilize
             Patriot and FIXTrader,  and  transaction  services,  Millennium ATS
             execution and matching system, described below.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS AND METHODS OF DISTRIBUTION

        Our Transaction Services segment leverages  cross-selling  opportunities
for our NYFIX  Network,  while  distributing  its  products  and our  Technology
Services segment's Trader Workstation Products,  including FIXTrader, which many
of our Transaction Services segment customers use to launch their order flow.

        In addition to connecting to customer  internal systems and FIX Engines,
our Transaction Services segment tests, certifies with and connects to customers
using a variety of institutional  money management OMS', and quote  aggregators,
such as Eze Castle  Software,  Charles  River  Development,  INDATA,  Line Data,
Latent Zero, RealTick,  Neovest,  FlexTrade,  Portware, UNX, BNY Sonic Software,
and Lava  Trading.  We also  provide  customers  with  our  Javelin  FIX  Engine
technology.  Our open connectivity  business model provides the customers of our
Transaction Services segment with the freedom to select among a variety of front
end  user   applications  or  FIX  engine  products,   including  those  of  our
competitors.

                                       19

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

PATRIOT

        Patriot  integrates  our  customers'  accessibility  to market data with
order executing  capabilities for all US equity and option markets.  In addition
to electronic access capabilities,  we believe Patriot's ability to route orders
to any  destination  on our NYFIX Network  differentiates  it in the  electronic
execution aggregation market.

MILLENNIUM ATS

        NYFIX Millennium  developed an ATS focused on the electronic matching of
US  Listed  Securities.  It does not  display  a quote  and our  executions  are
completely  anonymous.  Two types of orders are available:  (1) pass through and
(2) conditional. Pass through orders flow through the matching facility on their
way to the NYSE or the  AMEX.  These  orders  are only  executed  if they find a
marketable  match  within the  National  Best Bid and  Offer.  If there is not a
match,  these  orders  are  immediately  routed to their  ultimate  destination.
Conditional  orders  reside in the system and interact  with pass through  order
flow as well as execute against other  conditional  orders.  These orders can be
compared to and against the bid,  offer,  last sale, and  mid-point.  Volume and
bid/offer spread constraints can also be attached to these orders.

        NYFIX Millennium's ATS augments traditional auction markets by combining
the electronic  execution technology of an ECN with the liquidity of traditional
primary markets. NYFIX Millennium attempts to mitigate the negative price impact
of traditional fully disclosed searches for liquidity.

        NYFIX Millennium is interposed  between the trading  parties,  extending
full anonymity of those parties throughout the clearing and settlement  process.
NYFIX Millennium's volume is primarily cleared on its behalf by NYFIX Clearing.

        We currently  match Nasdaq  trades as part of our  combination  printing
agreement  with the ISE. In January  2004, we agreed to provide ISE member firms
with an  ability to match US Equity  trades in  combination  with  corresponding
options trades. This service went into production in June 2004.

ELECTRONIC NYSE ACCESS

        We provide  electronic  access to the NYSE through the DOT system.  This
service  leverages our  significant  FIX production  capabilities,  advanced DOT
gateway and SIAC/SFTI  infrastructure.  All NYSE order types, including Direct+,
Institutional  Express,  and  Liquidity  Quote,  are supported by the NYFIX SIAC
gateways.

ELECTRONIC NASDAQ ACCESS

        We provide direct routing of orders to Nasdaq and other venues,  such as
the Archipelago Exchange and Instinet, for matching and smart order routing.

ANONYMOUS NYSE FLOOR BROKER ACCESS

        A subset of NYSE  independent  brokers,  connected to our NYFIX network,
receive order flow directly from Transaction  Services segment customers.  These
orders are routed via our NYFIX Network.  The customer  identity is protected by
NYFIX Transaction Services.  This service is used by customers who recognize the
need for a human  agent on the  floor  but are  concerned  about  the  potential
information leakage that can be created.  FIX based electronic  messaging allows
for a significant  degree of  interaction  without  direct  contact  between the
counterparties.

                                       20

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

ELECTRONIC ISE ACCESS

        Direct  connectivity access to the ISE via our NYFIX Network and our FIX
production   environment  gives  options  participants  the  same  technological
flexibility afforded our customers in the cash equity markets. NYFIX Transaction
Services'  electronic  access ISE membership  allows it to charge a per contract
execution rate. Options trade clearing is currently performed on behalf of NYFIX
Transaction  Services by a  third-party.  NYFIX Clearing is a member of both the
Options Clearing Corporation and the NASD.

SHADOW

        NYFIX Millennium's Shadow order  functionality  enables NYFIX Millennium
pegged orders to be represented in both NYFIX  Millennium and Archipelago at the
same time.  Users send pegged  orders to NYFIX  Millennium  and a portion of the
order is sent to Archipelago and displayed in the NMS while the remainder of the
order is exposed anonymously in NYFIX Millennium and subject to execution in the
Millennium ATS.

ISE COMBO MATCHING

        NYFIX Millennium  provides the ISE and our membership with an electronic
matching  facility in the underlying  equities trades that are a part of options
and common stock trade  combinations.  Having  introduced this facility in 2004,
NYFIX  Millennium  receives a per trade matching fee based on size of the trade,
with mutually agreed upon caps and floors.

ALGORITHMIC TRADING

        In 2004, we introduced several algorithmic trading products,  which work
in concert with our Listed,  OTC access  products and our Millennium ATS and are
designed to improve customer trading results.

OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT

        Capacity,   speed,   security  and  uptime  are   considered   important
competitive  product  parameters  of our  Transaction  Services  segment and are
available as a result of the large-scale  infra-structure we built. All products
and services are supported by our help-desks  and  operations  staffs located at
our Wall Street and Stamford offices.

SALES AND MARKETING

        We  generally  provide  our  products  and  services  to our  Technology
Services customers on one to three-year subscription and service agreements with
automatic annual renewals at the end of the initial term.  Transaction  Services
contracts identify per share commission charges but do not, typically, guarantee
order flow.

        We maintain an in-house  marketing  department  that performs  marketing
functions,  including production of exhibition and special events,  planning and
production of  collateral  marketing  materials  and planning and  production of
advertising and web promotion.  We focus primarily on direct  marketing  efforts
designed to reach our target segments of customers,  which we believe results in
a more effective return on our marketing investment, rather than mass marketing.

TECHNOLOGY OPERATIONS AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

OPERATION OF OUR NYFIX NETWORK AND OUR DATACENTERS

        We rely upon  telecommunication  carriers in operating our NYFIX Network
and our data centers.  Because our data volume is significant and to achieve the

                                       21

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

highest level of availability,  we use multiple  telecommunication  carriers for
data transport  between our data centers and to our customers,  including  AT&amp;T,
Sprint, MCI, Qwest, Verizon, Colt and SingTel. With this diversity,  we decrease
our reliance on any single telecommunication service provider without materially
losing the benefit of economies of scale.

        Our  underlying  infrastructure   implementation  procedures  involve  a
modular,  or "building block,"  standard.  A building block standard consists of
the amount of storage,  processing and network  capacity  necessary to support a
set of customers. As we add customers to our NYFIX Network,  building blocks can
be inserted into our architecture to accommodate  continued  network  expansion.
Our building  block  architecture  relies upon  advanced  technology  standards,
including   storage   area   network   architecture,   which  is  employed   for
high-performance  database  access and transaction  processing.  We maintain two
data  centers,  either  of which  can  support  all of our  critical  production
operations and provide  redundancy for our customers.  We also maintain our WAN,
which we host for customer usage, providing us direct access for troubleshooting
problems.  An automated system continuously  monitors our NYFIX Network and data
center infrastructure, logging the performance of communication lines, equipment
and systems and  supporting  our effort to provide no or minimum  disruption  of
continuous availability of our services.

        Our  infrastructure  currently  processes  several  million  orders  and
executions  per day with peak rates of hundreds  of orders per second.  Critical
processes are monitored by the NYFIX Network  Operations Center (NOC).  Hardware
and software is continuously  upgraded to insure  adequate  capacity during peak
traffic hours.

        Our primary  data  centers are  located in two  independent,  separately
located data center facilities in New Jersey and New York,  so-called "redundant
centers." The data centers were previously serviced by the same electric utility
via different  sub-stations  but are now serviced by different power  companies.
The data centers are located in managed  co-hosted  facilities.  By  co-locating
equipment,  we believe that we derive  operating  economies  while obtaining the
highest quality of service available in a physical plant. Our data centers' 24x7
facilities  are  protected by  state-of-the-art  fire  suppression  and heating,
ventilation,  and air  conditioning  systems and have multiple,  uninterruptible
sources  of  power,  including  backup  generators  and  fully  redundant  power
distribution  units.  Security  personnel,  procedures  and  video  surveillance
protect  against  unauthorized  physical  access to our equipment.  We also have
International  data center hubs in co-hosted  facilities  in London,  Amsterdam,
Hong Kong and Tokyo  that have  similar  redundant  systems  and  safety  hazard
precautions.

APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT

        We employ  approximately  90 software  developers and quality  assurance
analysts;   currently   about   one-third  of  our  overall   workforce.   These
professionals  work in conjunction with the business product  management,  sales
and production support staffs, and directly with our customers,  to identify new
products and changes and enhancements to our existing products.

        We  develop  software  to meet a wide  range  of  requirements,  such as
regulatory changes,  customers' requests to support new or customized workflows,
changes  in  market  structure,  opportunities  to  tap  into  new  markets  and
businesses  for NYFIX and support for new and more cost  effective  technologies
for our data centers; for instance Linux and Java.

        We  design,  develop,  and  test our  software  following  a  consistent
process,  which we  developed  by adopting  and  tailoring to our needs the best
parts of widely  accepted  software  development  methods,  such as the Rational
Unified Process and the Microsoft Solutions Framework.

                                       22

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

        All of our  software  is  built to  support  the FIX  protocol,  both to
interface  with  external  systems not  developed  at NYFIX and as the  internal
protocol for  communication  among our own  applications.  This  end-to-end  FIX
support  enhances our ability to integrate our software with software  developed
by other vendors or in-house by our customers and to offer our products as large
end-to-end solutions or as individual components.

        We develop our  software on the two leading  operating  platforms in our
industry:   UNIX,   including  Linux,  for  server-side  mission  critical  high
performance applications, and Windows, for client-side Graphical User Interface,
or "GUI"-based applications. We closely follow the pace of evolution of software
development  technologies and adopt new programming  languages and tools as they
get  established  and  when we  believe  that  they  can  increase  our  staff's
productivity.

        Our Quality  Assurance  staff has access to a  laboratory  that  closely
resembles  the  production  environment,   where  software  can  be  tested  for
functionality, performance, reliability, recoverability, and interoperability.

        We have in place  procedures  to  escalate  production  issues and other
urgent requests to the appropriate development personnel for fast turn-around.

PRODUCTION

        We design,  develop and produce our  proprietary  software  and hardware
products at our facilities in Stamford,  New York, Chicago and London. We obtain
our materials, supplies and services from a variety of vendors in the US, Europe
and Asia.

        Our  manufactured  products are based on standard PC components  readily
available  in  the  consumer  market  place.  All  electronic,  computer-related
components  utilized  within  our  products  are not  manufacturer  or  supplier
specific.

        Electronic  and computer  components  utilized  within our  manufactured
products are  generally  purchased  from Tier 2 and Tier 3 resellers.  We define
Tier 2 suppliers as manufacturer  representatives for multiple product lines who
are  generally  regional  or  national  distributors  for those  products.  They
typically   maintain  an   engineering   or  technical   staff  for  design  and
specification support and they primarily focus on resellers and manufacturers as
a customer  base.  We define  Tier 3  suppliers  as  component  level  resellers
specializing in various product lines procured from multiple Tier 2 distribution
sources.  They generally do not maintain any engineering or technical staff, and
are geared primarily around consumer sales.

        For  our  in-house  manufactured  hardware  (TouchPad  Workstations  for
traders  and  floor   brokers)  and  standard  PC  products   used  in  customer
installations,  we generally do not maintain purchasing or governing  agreements
with vendors.  In some cases, when it is to our economic benefit,  we generate a
blanket  purchase  order.  The  advantage  of this is that  pricing  and product
availability is stabilized for the term of the blanket  purchase order.  Some of
the Tier 2 resellers  that we use are: CDW  Corporation,  MicroDesign,  Dell and
Arrow Electronics. Each of these resellers stock products from most of the major
computer manufactures,  such as IBM, Aaeon, Intel, Sony, NEC, Samsung,  Kingston
Technology,  Elo  TouchSystems  and AMD.  Tier 3 resellers for the most part are
generally  smaller  Internet  accessible  suppliers  that deal in a  variety  of
electronic and computer  components.  These  suppliers are only used when Tier 2
suppliers  quote extended lead times or pricing not consistent  with the current
market on preferred products.

        Our  manufactured  products contain several custom parts specific to our
design.  These parts are limited to sheet metal  enclosures and internal wiring.

                                       23

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

We own the  designs  for these  components  and can  source  them from  multiple
vendors in our  immediate  area or  throughout  the US.  Currently  we  maintain
relationships  with a minimum of two  alternate  vendors  for  cabling and sheet
metal,  either of which can deliver  components within standard delivery cycles.
For both of these  components we use vendors such as CTC,  Advantage Sheet Metal
and Interface Technology.

        We rely on a number of third parties to supply software and systems,  as
well as equipment and related maintenance.  Our systems are built using a number
of commonly used  technologies.  As an example we use systems from IBM, HP, EMC,
Sun  Microsystems,  Oracle,  Sybase,  Veritas and  Microsoft.  Our  products are
subject to  potential  defects in these  third  party  components.  Although  we
exercise strict testing and  verification  of systems and software,  defects can
cause disruptions of customer service.  We have invested in various test systems
to make sure our suppliers' components work as well as our developed software.

        Since we depend on third parties to supply us with  underlying  software
and systems on a reliable,  timely basis,  we maintain  service and  maintenance
agreements  with  our  key  vendors.  We have  standard  service  agreements  at
different levels depending on how critical we determine that the vendor's system
is to the  operation of our  business.  For most systems we have a high level of
redundancy, which gives us less time critical dependency on a particular vendor.
We have service and maintenance agreements with most of our vendors.  Because of
the diversity in vendors, there is no significant dependence on a single vendor.

COMPETITION

        Our  competition  varies with respect to each of our product and service
offerings.  We also face  competition  from  potential  customers  who choose to
maintain their own  infrastructure  and develop their own in-house  products and
services.

        Competition  within  our  industry  is based on a  variety  of  factors,
including  product  features,  product  functionality  and performance,  product
quality and reliability, price, and technical support and customer service.

        We face competition in the following six areas:

        o   Network Services.  Transaction Network Services,  Radianz and Savvis
            are large basic point-to-point networks capable of carrying FIX data
            information. We consider these networks to offer basic (TCP/IP) data
            transport and provide a lower price point.  Thomson  TradeRoute  and
            Tradeward   have  some  level  of  value  added   services  and  are
            competitively priced. While we believe we have captured market share
            of  buy-side  institutional  network  customers  within the  Thomson
            TradeRoute  customer  base and others in the last year,  there is no
            assurance that this trend will continue.

        o   Exchange  Floor  Technology.  We are a provider  of  exchange  floor
            automation  technology,  including  stationary and wireless  trading
            technologies. While we offer access technology to numerous exchanges
            globally,  our  most  significant  presence  is  in  the  US  Listed
            Securities equity market. Our largest installation of services is on
            the  NYSE.   Additionally,   we  provide  service  to  the  Chicago,
            Philadelphia, and Boston Stock Exchanges but to a lesser extent. The
            primary  alternative  to our floor trading system on the NYSE is the
            NYSE's  own  systems,  BBSS and  Tradeworks.  Like  us,  the NYSE is
            continuing  to  develop  these  systems.  We  do  not  believe  that
            currently  there  are  other   significant   vendors  in  the  floor
            technology market.

        o   Desktop  Products.  We face  competition  from  vendors  who produce
            desktop  solutions  for traders who are not on the  exchange  floor,
            including  several  vendors  in Listed  Securities  such as BRASS (a

                                       24

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

            subsidiary of SunGard),  royalblue group, Lava Trading and Bloomberg
            LP. These competitors either have or are building data centers for a
            service  bureau  offering  and have the ability to pass listed order
            flow through  their  systems to the exchange  floors,  including the
            NYSE.  While we believe that we compete  effectively and continue to
            install new systems, these vendors or smaller vendors could increase
            their competitive efforts and, thus, market share at our expense.

        o   Derivatives  Trading.  We compete with over 20 independent  software
            vendors  within  the  software  market  for   derivatives   trading,
            including  GL Trade,  Trading  Technologies,  PATS,  ORC and RTS. We
            believe  NYFIX  Overseas'  offering is  successful  for managing the
            broker desk and also  believe  that a large  percentage  of Tier One
            firms utilize our products.

        o   FIX  Engines.  We face  competition  from  vendors  who  produce FIX
            protocol engine solutions such as Financial Fusion, Cameron Systems,
            B2bits and TransactTools. While we believe that we have improved our
            technology  and  increased  our  competitive  ability in the last 18
            months,  we could be subject to increased  general  competition  and
            increased  pricing  pressure  in the area.  We believe  that when we
            leverage our  FIX-engine  technology in  combination  with our NYFIX
            Network or  transaction  offerings,  we are less  exposed to generic
            competition from the FIX engine market.

        o   Trade Execution  Services.  Our Transaction  Services  segment faces
            competition  from a  wide  variety  of  correspondent  clearing  and
            technology oriented brokerage firms and providers. Examples are ITG;
            Instinet; Goldman Sachs, Jefferies &amp; Company; Merrill Lynch, and the
            Wave   Securities   division  of   Archipelago.   NYFIX   Millennium
            specifically faces competition from traditional stock exchanges, the
            largest of which is the NYSE. In addition,  NYFIX  Millennium  faces
            competition from other ATSs and ECNs offering a variety of execution
            services.    Some   of   these   competitors    include   Liquidnet,
            Instinet/Island, ITG POSIT, Archipelago and Bloomberg TRADEBOOK. Our
            Patriot product  competitors include Real Tick,  Rediplus,  Instinet
            Portal, Lava Color Book, Bloomberg TradeBook,  ITG's Radical product
            and BNY Sonic.

        Our  clearing and  settlement  functions  primarily as an in-house  cost
saving and streamlining  measure for our own broker-dealer  subsidiaries.  Thus,
this service is not currently  offered  externally  and is not subject to direct
competition.

OUR RELIANCE UPON LARGE CUSTOMERS

        For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, no single customer
accounted for more than 10% of our revenue.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND OTHER PROPERTY RIGHTS

        Our success and ability to compete are dependent to a significant degree
on our intellectual property,  which includes our proprietary technology,  trade
secrets and customer base.  However,  no one patent,  trademark or other form of
intellectual property is critical to our business.

        The trademark NYFIX is the primary  trademark used to identify our goods
and services.  We are the registered exclusive owner of the trademark as well as
additional  product  brand  trademarks  globally.  Each  trademark  is valid and
protected  in  perpetuity,  provided  it is being  used and  renewed  during the
appropriate  renewal  periods  designated by the  trademark  laws of the country
where registered.  There are no known third party objections to NYFIX trademarks
globally.

        The  core   technologies  of  our  business  are  proprietary   software
applications built around the FIX messaging specifications, and are protected by

                                       25

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

copyright, patent, trade secret and contract law. The FIX protocol technology is
available for use by any party  indefinitely  if used  properly.  The source and
object code for our core proprietary  software  applications are protected using
various  applicable modes of intellectual  property  protection,  including four
filed pending patent applications and two issued patents. The issued patents are
valid  through  the year 2007 and 2009,  respectively,  and of the  applications
approved,  once issued,  those patents will be valid through 2022.  There are no
known third party infringement claims against our software applications.

        In  addition,  we  seek  to  enter  into  confidentiality,  intellectual
property ownership and/or non-competition  agreements with all of our customers,
employees,  independent contractors and business partners, and to control access
to and distribution of our intellectual property.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

        Participants  in the US  securities  industry  are subject to  extensive
regulation  under both  Federal  and state  laws.  Examples  of SEC  regulations
affecting  the  industry  in which we  compete  include  Regulation  123,  which
mandates trade reporting requirements; Regulation 344, which formalizes business
continuity process requirements; and the latest, Regulation SHO, which describes
short sale handling. In addition,  the SEC; the NYSE; the NASD; other SROs, such
as the various regional stock exchanges;  and other regulatory  bodies,  such as
the various state securities  authorities,  require strict compliance with their
rules and regulations. We have subsidiaries that are registered with the SEC and
various states as  broker-dealers.  Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has
been delegated by the SEC to SROs, including the NASD, which has been designated
by the SEC as our principal examining authority.  The NASD adopts rules (subject
to approval by the SEC) that regulate the  broker-dealers who are members of the
NASD. These rules regulate the conduct of our US broker-dealer subsidiaries. The
NASD,  through  its  regulatory   subsidiary,   NASDR,  also  conducts  periodic
examinations of the operations of those subsidiaries. Our US broker-dealers also
are  registered  as  broker-dealers  in a number of states  and are  subject  to
regulation by state  securities  administrators  in states in which they conduct
business.

        In addition, our US broker-dealer  subsidiaries are members of the SIPC,
which is funded  through  assessments  on registered  broker-dealers.  The costs
associated with compliance,  i.e. fees,  implementing  and following  compliance
procedures and filing reports,  are minimal and do not have a material effect on
our profitability.

        Participants  in the United Kingdom  Securities  industry are subject to
extensive regulation by the FSA. The FSA's task is to achieve a marketplace that
is run in an efficient,  orderly and clean manner while  ensuring that consumers
receive a fair deal by being properly informed and appropriately  protected. The
FSA was  established by the United Kingdom and it is important to emphasize that
it is the  government  that is  responsible  for the overall  scope of the FSA's
regulatory  activities and powers.  The FSA regulates  most  financial  services
markets and firms. It sets the standards that they must meet and can take action
against firms if they fail to meet the required  standards.  This often involves
requiring firms to pay compensation to their customers.

        As a matter  of  public  policy,  regulatory  bodies  are  charged  with
safeguarding  the integrity of the  securities and other  financial  markets and
with  protecting  the  interests of investors  participating  in those  markets.
Companies  that operate in the  securities  industry  are subject to  regulation
concerning many aspects of their business,  including trade  practices,  capital
structure,  record  retention  and  the  conduct  of  directors,   officers  and
employees.   As  part  of  this  regulation,   we  are  subject  to  significant
intervention  by regulatory  authorities,  including  extensive  examination and
surveillance  activity.  Failure  to  comply  with any of these  laws,  rules or
regulations  could result in censure,  fine,  the  issuance of  cease-and-desist
orders or the  suspension  or  disqualification  of our  directors,  officers or
employees.  Neither  we nor  any of our  directors,  officers  or  employees  is
currently   subject   to   any   cease-and-desist    orders,    suspensions   or
disqualifications under the rules of any of these regulatory  organizations.  An

                                       26

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

adverse ruling in the future against us or our directors, officers or employees,
including censure or suspension, could result in us, our directors, officers and
other  employees  being required to pay a substantial  fine or  settlement,  and
could result in their suspension or expulsion. Any such penalty could materially
affect our profitability.  If any of our employees are suspended or disqualified
it could harm our ability to  successfully  provide  services to our  customers.
This could,  in turn,  have an adverse effect on our reputation in the industry,
which could further harm our profitability.

        The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to change. Our
profitability  may be  adversely  affected  if,  as a result  of new or  revised
legislation  or  regulations  imposed  by the  SEC,  FSA,  other  US or  foreign
governmental  regulatory  authorities  or the NASD,  we are forced to incur more
costs in order to remain in compliance with applicable regulatory  requirements.
We may also be adversely  affected by changes in the  interpretation of existing
laws  and  rules  by  these  governmental  authorities  and  the  NASD,  or  the
enforcement practices thereof.  Additional regulation,  changes in existing laws
and rules,  or changes in  interpretations  or  enforcement of existing laws and
rules  often  directly  affect  the method of  operation  and  profitability  of
securities firms. We cannot predict what effect any such changes might have.

        Starting in 1994,  the SEC and the US  Department  of Justice  conducted
anti-trust  investigations  of the NASD  relating to  concerns  of fraud,  price
fixing and  collusion.  In December  1997, 30 major  brokerage  firms and the US
Department of Justice entered into a settlement of these anti-trust proceedings.
In response to the  findings of these  investigations  and  consistent  with the
recommendations  in the SEC Market 2000 Report  issued in 1994,  the SEC adopted
new rules  referred  to as the order  handling  rules.  These rules cover how to
display and execute a limit order.

        In December 1998,  following the issuance of the order  handling  rules,
the SEC  promulgated  Regulation ATS relating to the regulation of certain ATSs,
such as NYFIX Millennium.  The SEC expanded its interpretation of the definition
of "exchange"  under the US  securities  laws to encompass a range of electronic
brokerage  activities.  At the same  time,  Regulation  ATS  permits  systems to
register as broker-dealers,  rather than as national securities exchanges,  with
the SEC, if they comply with the  regulation.  Our trading  systems  comply with
Regulation  ATS and we continue to review and monitor our systems and procedures
for compliance.

        The introduction of  decimalization in April 2001 has also had an impact
on the US securities markets and increased competition for ATSs.  Decimalization
may assist  investors in obtaining  price  improvement  because  improvement  in
smaller  increments  is  possible.  Because  decimalization  narrows the average
trading  spreads,  it  also  has  had  a  significant  negative  impact  on  the
profitability of traditional broker-dealers. Decimalization has also caused, and
may continue to cause,  traditional  broker-dealers  to execute their customers'
orders  internally  rather  than  route  them to  external  market  centers  for
execution,  because of the decrease in the additional  price risk to fill orders
internally.  Increased  internal trading by traditional  broker-dealers has also
reduced, and could continue to reduce, our order flow.

        We provide our customers  with access to US Listed  Securities,  through
connectivity  to the NYSE and its exchange  specialists.  Previously,  NYSE Rule
390,  which  had  required  that all  NYSE  members  and  member  firms  execute
transactions  in stocks  listed or traded  on or before  April 26,  1979  during
market hours only on the floor of the NYSE, subject to exceptions, had prevented
NYSE members from executing some  transactions  with their customers  completely
in-house,  but it also  prevented  them from  exposing  orders  in other  market
centers. Rule 390 was abolished in May 2000. As a result, we are able to execute
trades in the Millennium ATS involving all  NYSE-listed  stocks on behalf of all
of our customers.

        On January 30, 2001, SEC rules became effective that require many market
participants  to make detailed  public  disclosure in electronic form of certain

                                       27

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

statistical measures of execution quality for orders in equity securities (known
as "Quality of Execution Data" rules). Market centers must disclose information,
categorized by security,  size and type of order, about the time frames in which
orders are executed and on the prices offered by  participants  relative to each
other and the  marketplace.  These  rules  also  require  securities  brokers to
provide  detailed  disclosure in electronic  form regarding  their order routing
practices.   NYFIX  Transaction  Services  and  NYFIX  Millennium  report  their
execution quality data to the SEC. An independent third party, Transaction Audit
Group "TAG"  performs that service on behalf of NYFIX  Transaction  Services and
NYFIX Millennium.

        The SEC, the FSA and the NASD, as well as other regulatory  agencies and
securities  exchanges  within and  outside  the US,  have  stringent  rules with
respect to the  maintenance  of  specific  levels of net  capital  by  regulated
broker-dealers.  These rules include the SEC's net capital rule, to which our US
broker-dealer  subsidiaries are subject and the FSA's net capital rule, to which
our United  Kingdom broker dealer  subsidiary is subject.  The failure by one of
these  subsidiaries  to maintain its required net capital may lead to suspension
or revocation of its  registration  by the SEC or the FSA and its  suspension or
expulsion  by the NASD and  other US or  international  regulatory  bodies,  and
ultimately  could  require its  liquidation.  In  addition,  a change in the net
capital rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large charge against
the  net  capital  of one of our  broker-dealer  subsidiaries  could  limit  its
operations, particularly those that are capital intensive. A large charge to the
net  capital of one of these  subsidiaries  could  result from an error or other
operational  failure  or a  failure  of a  customer  to  complete  one  or  more
transactions,  including  as a result  of that  customer's  insolvency  or other
credit  difficulties,  and we cannot assure you that we would be able to furnish
the affected  subsidiary  with the requisite  additional  capital to offset that
charge.  The net  capital  rules  could also  restrict  our  ability to withdraw
capital from our  broker-dealer  subsidiaries,  which could limit our ability to
pay cash  dividends  if we decided to pay  dividends,  repay debt or  repurchase
shares of our outstanding  stock. A significant  operating loss or any unusually
large charge  against the net capital of any of our  broker-dealer  subsidiaries
could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements.

        In January  2004,  the SEC  proposed a new rule set known as  Regulation
NMS,  which  initially   addressed  three  main  areas  of  concern  for  market
participants:  i) trade-through  reform and market linkage,  ii) access fees and
standards,  and iii) market data pricing and  distribution.  Throughout  2004, a
wide  variety  of  industry  participants  responded  with  comments  and public
testimony  to the proposed set of rules.  The NYSE  responded  with a plan named
"Hybrid"  in which they  described  a  transformation  of their  technology  and
marketplace that would ultimately support auto execution and auto quotation.  As
a result of the  disparity  in public  commentary,  the SEC voted to  re-propose
Regulation NMS with an accelerated  30-day comment period.  While Regulation NMS
was approved by the SEC in April 2005,  the contents of Regulation  NMS were not
publicly  available until June 2005. We believe  Regulation NMS can dramatically
change the  current  exchange  floor  environment,  as was evident by the recent
announcement of the NYSE that it was merging with  Archipelago  Holdings,  Inc.,
which operates a totally electronic exchange.

        The SEC has also indicated that it is reviewing marketplace linkage that
is currently provided by ITS. The NYSE has advocated the redesign or elimination
of the ITS,  which links market centers that trade Listed  Securities.  The NYSE
has also suggested  that, if the ITS is maintained,  access should be limited to
exchanges and  self-regulatory  organizations,  such as the NYSE. The NYSE could
also seek to withdraw  from the ITS. In an open letter to the SEC, we  suggested
that there was a need for a  competitive  bidding  process in selecting the next
generation provider of linkage between US Exchanges that ultimately results from
the  enactment  of  Regulation  NMS. We are unable to predict the outcome of the
various deliberations and discussions on the evolution of the US equities market
structure and  regulatory  framework,  although  these issues or other issues of
market structure may have a significant impact on our equities business.

                                       28

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

        Our business,  both directly and indirectly,  relies on the Internet and
other electronic  communications  gateways. We intend to expand our use of these
gateways.  To date,  the use of the  Internet  has  been  relatively  free  from
regulatory  restraints.  However, the SEC, SROs and states have begun to address
regulatory  issues that may arise in  connection  with the use of the  Internet.
Accordingly,  new regulations or  interpretations  may be adopted that constrain
our own and our customers'  abilities to transact  business through the Internet
or other electronic communications gateways.

        NYSE Rule 123 governs the recording and transmission of orders to and on
the NYSE floor.  Rule 123 requires  all orders  received on the NYSE floor to be
input into an electronic OMS for better  monitoring and tracking of trades,  and
it also  requires  that all  orders and order  details  must be capable of being
transmitted  to a  designated  NYSE data base within such time frame as the NYSE
may  prescribe.  Rule 123 requires that each order include the symbol,  clearing
member  organization,  order identifier,  identification of member recording the
order details,  number of shares, side of market,  designation as market, limit,
stop, stop limit, any limit price or stock price, time in force,  designation as
held or not held,  special  conditions,  time of  recording  order  details  and
modification of terms of the order or cancellation of the order.

        The financial  services  industry,  including the  securities  brokerage
business, is also heavily regulated outside of the US. We are required to comply
with regulatory  controls of each specific  country in which our subsidiaries or
we conduct  business,  as well as the  regulations of each exchange of which our
subsidiaries or we are members.  As we expand our international  operations,  we
may be required  to comply  with  requirements  that are  inconsistent  with our
existing international  activities.  As a result, the varying cost of compliance
with these different  regulatory  jurisdictions and other factors may affect our
business or limit our ability to expand our international operations.

        In many countries  outside the US and Europe,  the laws and  regulations
applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and
evolving. In these countries,  it may be difficult for us to determine the exact
requirements of local laws and regulations in every market, particularly because
legal and regulatory  developments  generally trail technological  advances. Our
inability to remain in compliance with  regulatory  requirements in a particular
jurisdiction  could have a materially  adverse  effect on our operations in that
market and on our reputation generally.

        Any  of  the  non-US  or  European   regulatory   agencies  may  conduct
administrative  proceedings  against us, which can result in censure,  fine, the
prevention of activities or our suspension or expulsion from their country as an
investment services provider. The applicable regulations cover minimum financial
resource   requirements  and  conduct  of  business  rules  for  all  authorized
investment businesses.

        The  costs  associated  with  new   regulations,   changes  in  existing
regulations  or  changes  in  the  interpretation  or  enforcement  of  existing
regulations  outside  of the US and  Europe  may  adversely  affect or limit our
business  or  operations  and  adversely  affect  our   consolidated   financial
statements.

BACKLOG AND SEASONALITY

        We do not believe that sales  backlog is a meaningful  indication of our
future  revenue  as a  substantial  portion  of  our  revenue  is  derived  from
contracts,  for which our equipment or software is already  installed and we are
currently  recognizing revenue. In addition,  our operations,  to date, have not
been significantly affected by seasonality.

EMPLOYEES

        As of March 31, 2005,  we had 277 full-time  employees,  including 86 in
product development, 66 in operations, 89 in sales, marketing and support and 36
in management,  general and administrative  functions.  None of our employees is

                                       29

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  We believe that our relationships
with  our  employees  are  good.  Throughout  our  operating  history,  we  have
experienced good retention of our technical employees.  We believe that this has
enabled us to attract and develop  staff,  managers  and  project  leaders  with
extensive technical and brokerage industry experience.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

        We are  required  to file  certain  documents  with the SEC, as required
under Sections  13(a),  13(c),  14, or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange Act of
1934,  as  amended.  The SEC  maintains a website at  http://www.sec.gov,  which
contains  reports,  proxy and  information  statements,  and  other  information
regarding  us. You may also read and copy any  document  we file with the SEC at
its Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street, N.W.,  Washington,  D.C. 20549. The
SEC may be contacted at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further  information on the operation
of the Public Reference Room.

        Our website can be found at http://www.nyfix.com.  Information contained
on our website is not a part of this document.  We make available free of charge
on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K,  quarterly  reports on Form 10-Q,
current  reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section  13(a) or 15(d) of the  Exchange  Act as soon as  reasonably
practicable after we  electronically  file such material with, or furnish it to,
the SEC.

        We will provide you with a copy of these filings, including the exhibits
to such filings  which we have  specifically  incorporated  by reference in such
filings,  at no cost,  upon request to: NYFIX,  Inc.,  Stamford Harbor Park, 333
Ludlow Street, Stamford, CT 06902, Attention: Chief Financial Officer, telephone
(203) 425-8000.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

        Our  headquarters,  executive  offices and production  facilities are in
Stamford,  Connecticut,  consisting  of  26,500  square  feet of  leased  space,
expiring  in 2015.  We  currently  maintain an office on Wall Street in New York
City,  comprising  35,800 square feet of leased space  expiring in 2014. We have
another  office on Wall Street with 23,800 square feet of leased space  expiring
in 2010, which we sub-lease to two third parties.

        We also have an office in  Lyndhurst,  New Jersey,  where we lease 2,150
square  feet  expiring  in 2006,  and an office in London,  where we lease 5,500
square feet expiring in 2009. In addition, we maintain sales offices in Chicago,
San  Francisco  and Madrid,  consisting  of 2,900 square feet  expiring in 2005,
2,500  square feet  expiring in 2005,  and 1,200  square feet  expiring in 2007,
respectively.  We also maintain redundant data center facilities in the New York
Metropolitan  area,  consisting  of 850 square  feet  expiring in 2009 and 2,750
square feet  expiring in 2011.  Our  International  data  center  facilities  in
London,  Amsterdam,  Hong Kong and Tokyo are located  within the  facilities  of
third party operations.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

LITIGATION

        On May 13, 2004, an action entitled FULLER &amp; THALER ASSET  MANAGEMENT V.
NYFIX,  INC.,  ET AL.  was filed in the  United  States  District  Court for the
District  of  Connecticut.  The  complaint  named  us,  our  Chairman  and Chief
Executive  Officer,  our former  Chief  Financial  Officer,  our  current  Chief
Financial Officer and certain of our directors as defendants.  The complaint was
filed as a  purported  class  action  claim on behalf of all buyers of our stock
between  March 30,  2000 and March 30, 2004 and seeks an  unspecified  amount of
damages.  The complaint  alleged  violations of Sections  10(b) and 20(a) of the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, based on the issuance of a series of allegedly

                                       30

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

false and misleading financial  statements and press releases concerning,  among
other things,  our investment in NYFIX  Millennium.  On July 20, 2004, the court
appointed  three  different  plaintiffs to be the lead  plaintiffs,  as Fuller &amp;
Thaler  Asset  Management  withdrew as the named  plaintiff.  The action  became
styled  JOHNSON,  ET AL. V. NYFIX,  INC.,  ET AL. On August 19, 2004,  the newly
named  plaintiffs  filed a first  amended class action  complaint,  which added,
among  other  things,  allegations  of  violations  of Sections 11 and 15 of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  The new allegations are based fundamentally
on the same allegations that the plaintiffs  asserted in the original complaint.
The  defendants  have  filed a motion to  dismiss  the  amended  complaint  with
prejudice. We believe that this amended complaint,  like the original complaint,
is without  merit.  Although it is not  possible to forecast the outcome of this
matter, we intend to vigorously defend against the complaint.

        During  the course of normal  business,  we become  involved  in various
routine legal  proceedings.  We believe that we are not presently a party to any
other material litigation,  the outcome of which could reasonably be expected to
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.

SEC MATTERS

        In connection with the restatement of our 1999 through 2002 consolidated
financial  statements  in May  2004,  the  Division  of  Enforcement  of the SEC
informed us by letter dated July 14, 2004,  that it was  conducting  an informal
inquiry.  On January  25,  2005,  we filed a current  report on Form 8-K,  which
indicated  that the matter was a formal  inquiry.  By letter  dated  October 28,
2004,  the Division of Enforcement of the SEC informed us that it was conducting
a second  informal  inquiry,  which  related to our stock  options  granted.  On
February 25, 2005, we filed a current report on Form 8-K,  which  indicated that
we believed that the matter was a formal inquiry.  We are  cooperating  with the
SEC with respect to both matters. We are unable to predict the outcome of either
matter at this time and can give no  assurances  that the  outcome  of either or
both matters will not have a material impact on us.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

        (a) Our 2004  annual  meeting of  shareholders  was held on October  19,
2004.

        (b) All director nominees were elected.

        (c) Matters voted on at the meeting and the number of votes cast:

            Proposal No. 1 - Election of Directors for a term of one year.

                NAME                       SHARES FOR         WITHHELD VOTE

            Peter K. Hansen                28,021,575         1,328,215
            George O. Deehan               27,945,944         1,403,846
            William C. Jennings            27,901,694         1,448,746
            William J. Lynch               27,941,044         1,408,746
            Thomas C. Wajnert              28,047,244         1,302,546

        Proposal No. 2 - To ratify the  appointment  of Deloitte &amp; Touche LLP as
        our independent  registered  public  accounting firm for the year ending
        December 31, 2004.

                                       31

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

            For                            29,117,402
            Against                           172,669
            Abstain                            59,719

                                       32

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S  COMMON EQUITY,  RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
        ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

(a) MARKET INFORMATION

        Our common stock,  which trades on the Nasdaq  National Market under the
symbol NYFX had the following  high and low intra-day sale prices as reported by
the Nasdaq National Market.  Such  over-the-counter  market  quotations  reflect
inter-dealer prices, without retail markup,  mark-down or commission and may not
necessarily represent actual transactions.

PRICES OF COMMON STOCK                    HIGH               LOW
                                      -----------         ---------

2004
- ----
First Quarter                         $    8.18           $   4.81
Second Quarter                        $    5.70           $   3.87
Third Quarter                         $    7.07           $   3.82
Fourth Quarter                        $    6.51           $   4.39

2003
- ----
First Quarter                         $    5.08           $   3.52
Second Quarter                        $    6.92           $   3.71
Third Quarter                         $    7.26           $   5.25
Fourth Quarter                        $    9.02           $   5.68

        On April 7, 2005, our common stock began trading on the Nasdaq  National
Market under the symbol  NYFXE.  The  addition of the "E" to our trading  symbol
indicated  that we had not timely filed this Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended  December  31,  2004.  Based on the delay in the filing of our Annual
Report on Form  10-K,  Nasdaq  notified  us on April 5, 2005 that we were not in
compliance  with its listing  requirements.  At a May 12, 2005  hearing with the
Nasdaq Listing  Qualifications  Panel, we requested an extension of time to meet
Nasdaq's listing requirements.  On June 14, 2005, Nasdaq granted our request for
continued  listing on the Nasdaq National Market,  subject to us filing our 2004
Form 10-K and our Report on Form 10-Q for the three  months ended March 31, 2005
by June 30, 2005.

        With this filing of our 2004  Annual  Report on Form 10-K and the filing
of our Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2005,
we believe that we have now filed all  periodic  reports that are due. We intend
to request  that  Nasdaq  dismiss the pending  delisting  action  against us and
permit our common stock to resume  trading on the Nasdaq  National  Market under
the symbol NYFX.

(b) HOLDERS

        At March 31, 2005 the records of our transfer agent indicated that there
were 342 holders of record of our common stock.

(c) DIVIDENDS

        Stockholders  of our common  stock are entitled to dividends if and when
declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally  available.  We have not
paid or  declared  any  dividends  on any class of our  capital  stock since our
incorporation and have no present intention of paying cash dividends on our

                                       33

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

common stock. We intend to utilize any income we may achieve for the development
of our business and for working capital purposes.

(d) SECURITIES AUTHORIZED FOR ISSUANCE UNDER EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS

        The  following   table   provides   information   regarding  our  equity
compensation plans at December 31, 2004:

                                          Number of securities                               Number of securities
                                           to be issued upon        Weighted-average        remaining available for
                                               exercise of         exercise price of      future insurance under equity
          Plan Category                  outstanding options       outstanding options        compensation plans
- -------------------------------------    ---------------------   ---------------------  -----------------------------
Equity compensation plans
  approved by security holders                 5,305,418         $              10.43                     173,940

Equity compensation plans not
  approved by security holders (1)               277,862         $               7.44                     125,547
                                         --------------------                           ------------------------------

Total                                          5,583,280         $              10.28                     299,487
                                         ====================                           ==============================

(1)    As a result of our  acquisition  of Javelin on March 31, 2002, we assumed
       the  outstanding  stock options of Javelin that were granted  pursuant to
       the Javelin 1999 Stock Option Plan (the "Javelin Plan"). The Javelin Plan
       authorized  grants of stock options of Javelin.  At the acquisition date,
       the Javelin  options were converted into our options at a conversion rate
       of 0.51 to 1.0.  The options  granted  under the Javelin  Plan were fully
       vested at the time of our acquisition of Javelin  pursuant to a change of
       control  clause within the Javelin Plan. A total of 511,167 shares of our
       common stock were  reserved for issuance  upon  exercise of such options.
       Pursuant to the Javelin Plan, as amended,  we may grant stock options and
       stock  purchase  rights  to  our  employees,   officers,   directors  and
       consultants.  The maximum term of an  incentive  stock option grant under
       the Javelin Plan is limited to ten years. The exercise price of incentive
       stock  options  granted  under the Javelin Plan must be at least equal to
       the fair market value of our stock at the date of grant, as defined.  The
       Javelin Plan was  effective on July 1, 1999 and expires on June 30, 2009.
       At December 31, 2004,  stock  options to purchase  277,862  shares of our
       common stock were outstanding under the Javelin Plan.

(e)    UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS

       On October  27,  2004,  we issued an  aggregate  of 20,800  shares of our
common stock to two  unitholders of Renaissance  pursuant to amended  promissory
note and settlement agreements with those unitholders dated September 23, 2004.

       On December 30, 2004, we issued a $7.5 million  Convertible  Note with an
interest  rate  of 5% due in  December  2009  (the  "Note")  through  a  private
placement to Whitebox Convertible  Arbitrage Partners L.P (the "Lender").  Other
than the Note, we do not have a material  relationship with the Lender. The Note
was issued pursuant to the exemption from registration contained in Section 4(2)
of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

       At the  option of the  Lender,  the Note is  convertible  into our common
stock at $6.94 per common share, which was a 20% premium over the average of our
common stock  closing  price for the five trading  days  preceding  December 30,
2004.  At our option,  the Note is  convertible  into shares of our common stock
according to a formula  based on the market price of our common stock during the
term of the Note which requires,  among other things, our common stock to exceed
150% of the price (or $10.41 per common  share) at which the Lender can  convert
the Note.  If we issue our common stock to convert the Note or to make  interest

                                       34

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

payments,  the formula used to determine the number of shares of common stock to
be issued  includes  a 5%  premium,  payable  in shares of common  stock.  If we
convert  the  Note  prior  to  December  30,  2007,  we  are  required  to pay a
"make-whole"  interest  payment,  in either  cash or our  common  stock,  at our
discretion,  equal to the total of the remaining  interest  payments due for the
period from the date of the conversion through December 31, 2007.

        The Note is  subordinated  to all of our  existing  and  future  secured
indebtedness.  The Lender has certain  rights to require  that we  register  the
common stock  issuable upon  conversion of the Note, or for payment of interest,
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Such registration  statement is to
be  effective  by  September  30,  2005.  If we do not register our common stock
pursuant to this  agreement,  we will be required  to make  additional  interest
payments,  in cash,  for each  month  the  effective  date of such  registration
statement  is  delayed.  The  additional  interest  varies  by month  and has an
aggregate  cap of $500,000  for the duration of the delay.  In addition,  at the
option  of the  Lender,  we may issue to the  Lender by March 30,  2005 up to an
additional $2.5 million note under terms  substantially  similar to those of the
Note.  The Lender  requested,  and we agreed,  to extend the option to issue the
additional  $2.5  million note until ten days after the date we file this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

        As a result of the restatement of our financial  statements for the year
ended  December  31,  2003,  we were in breach of  certain  representations  and
warranties  relating to those financial  statements that constituted an event of
default under the Note. On June 24, 2005,  the Lender waived all defaults  under
the Note and  extended  the  requirement  to have a  registration  statement  be
effective  for the shares of our  common  stock that may be issued as payment of
principal or interest  under the Note to March 31, 2006. In exchange,  we agreed
to reduce the price at which the lender can convert  the Note into common  stock
from $6.94 per share, as described  above,  to $5.75 per share,  which was a 16%
premium over the average of our common stock  closing price for the five trading
days preceeding June 24, 2005. Accordingly,  our option to convert the Note into
our common  stock is based on the market  price of our stock  during the term of
the Note which requires,  among other things, our common stock to exceed 150% of
the price (or $8.63 per common share on a revised basis) at which the Lender can
convert the Note.

                                       35

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

The following  table presents our selected  financial  data. The information set
forth below should be read in conjunction with Item 7, "Management's  Discussion
and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results  of  Operations"  and  our
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included herein.

                                                            YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                        2004        2003 (1)    2002 (1)       2001 (1)        2000 (1)
                                    ----------    ----------   -----------   ------------    -------------
                                                  (RESTATED)    (RESTATED)    (RESTATED)     (RESTATED)
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT                               (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
  OF OPERATIONS DATA:
Revenue                             $ 75,135      $ 65,909      $ 55,812      $ 41,397      $ 23,980
Gross profit                          33,805        31,242        27,390        27,149        14,947
Operating expense                     46,693        41,242        39,012        29,619        23,559
Loss from operations                 (12,888)      (10,000)      (11,622)       (2,470)       (8,612)
Net (loss) income                    (32,702)       (4,915)       (7,007)       (6,462)          130
Net (loss) income per
  common share:
     Basic                          $  (1.02)     $  (0.16)     $  (0.23)     $  (0.24)     $   0.01
     Diluted                        $  (1.02)     $  (0.16)     $  (0.23)     $  (0.24)     $   --

                                                           AS OF DECEMBER 31,
                                    ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                        2004        2003 (1)    2002 (1)       2001 (1)      2000 (1)
                                    ----------    ----------   -----------   ------------  -------------
                                                  (RESTATED)   (RESTATED)    (RESTATED)      (RESTATED)
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE                                         (IN THOUSANDS)
  SHEET DATA:
Cash and cash equivalents           $ 22,405      $ 21,006      $ 11,213      $  4,968      $ 4,867
Short-term investments                 4,466         3,448        10,727        28,974            -
Accounts receivable, net              13,405        10,371        16,601        12,949       12,058
Securities borrowed                  138,456         1,945             -             -            -
Working capital                       20,845        22,712        30,230        47,030        9,158
Property and equipment, net           16,649        16,592        18,186        14,366       11,472
Goodwill                              62,519        60,904        52,861            34            -
Total assets                         281,091       156,784       151,169       100,503       60,143
Securities loaned                    138,375         1,700             -             -            -
Long-term debt, including             10,444         3,409         1,753         1,501        3,823
   current portion
Stockholders' equity                 106,742       136,549       136,824        90,690       44,812

(1) See Note 2 to the Consolidated  Financial Statements for a discussion of the
    restatement.

                                       36
<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

        The  purpose  of  management's  discussion  and  analysis  of  financial
condition and results of operations ("MD&amp;A") is to provide an overview of NYFIX,
Inc. to help facilitate an understanding of the significant  factors influencing
our consolidated financial statements and also to convey our expectations of the
potential impact of known trends,  events, or uncertainties  that may impact our
future  consolidated  financial  statements.  Our MD&amp;A includes  forward-looking
statements,  including, without limitation, our expectations. Our actual results
may differ  materially  from those  expressed or implied in the  forward-looking
statements as a result of various factors  including,  but not limited to, those
discussed  under "Risk  Factors  Relating to Our Business"  below.  We assume no
obligation to update the  forward-looking  statements or such risk factors.  You
should read this  discussion  in  conjunction  with our  consolidated  financial
statements and related notes included in this Report on Form 10-K.

        The following discussion and analysis gives effect to the restatement of
our  consolidated  financial  statements to correctly  account for  compensation
expense attributable to stock options granted to our employees and directors and
to correctly account for deferred tax assets and liabilities  related to certain
acquisitions, as discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

OVERVIEW

        NYFIX,   founded  in  1991  through  the   acquisition  of  a  New  York
corporation,  is  headquartered in Stamford,  Connecticut.  In December 2003, we
reincorporated as a Delaware corporation.

        We are a provider to the domestic and international financial markets of
trading  workstations,  middle-office  trade  automation  technologies and trade
communication  technologies.  Our NYFIX Network is one of the industry's largest
networks, connecting broker-dealers,  institutions and exchanges. In addition to
our  headquarters in Stamford,  we have offices on Wall Street in New York City,
in London's Financial  District,  in Chicago, in San Francisco and in Madrid. We
operate  redundant  data  centers in the  northeastern  US and have  established
additional data center hubs in London, Amsterdam, Hong Kong and Tokyo.

        We are a provider of trading technology,  industry network  connectivity
and execution  services,  offering certain  underlying,  universally  applicable
network  inter-connectivity   products,  systems,   facilities,  and  supporting
operations to our two business segments: our Technology Services segment and our
Transaction  Services segment.  These segments,  in turn, package these products
and services and add others to address the needs of their specific  markets.  We
also  provide to our  segments  products  specifically  developed to support the
marketing  strategy of that segment.  We provide  product  development,  systems
development, data center and network operations support to our segments.

        Our   Technology   Services   segment  is   comprised  of  four  of  our
subsidiaries:  NYFIX  USA,  NYFIX  Overseas,  Javelin,  and  Renaissance.  These
businesses  work  together  as  technology   providers,   focusing  on  offering
trade-management   systems,  a  centralized  industry   order-routing   network,
order-routing software,  exchange-floor  automation systems, exchange and market
access technology and post-trade  processing  systems.  Our Technology  Services
customers consist  primarily of US securities  brokerage firms and international
derivatives   brokerage  firms.  Our  Technology   Services  segment   generates
subscription, capital sale and service revenue.

        Our Transaction Services segment is comprised of six of our subsidiaries
- - NYFIX Millennium,  NYFIX Transaction Services,  and NYFIX Clearing,  which are
NASD  registered   broker-dealers;   NYFIX  Partners,  which  was  approved  for
membership  in the  NFA  in  2002,  is our  Introducing  Broker  for  derivative
transactions; NYFIX International,  which was incorporated in the United Kingdom

                                       37

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

on March 29, 2004,  is a  broker-dealer  registered  with the FSA  broker-dealer
license in connection  with our expansion into European and other  international
markets; and EuroLink. We acquired the remaining 60% of EuroLink we did not own,
effective  March 29,  2004.  We have  integrated  EuroLink's  operations,  which
represented our initial transaction efforts in the European markets,  into NYFIX
International.

        NYFIX Millennium provides a modernized  electronic execution venue under
Regulation ATS for trading in US stocks.  NYFIX  Transaction  Services  provides
technology  and direct market  access and execution  links.  NYFIX  Clearing,  a
member  of the  DTCC,  settles  and  clears  transactions  on  behalf  of  NYFIX
Millennium  and  NYFIX  Transaction  Services.  While  NYFIX  Partners  has  not
initiated any active business,  we are discussing  opportunities with sponsoring
broker-dealers  and potential  customers for the derivatives  markets to augment
our future business plans.

        Our main  growth  strategy,  based  on our  established  technology  and
investments  in new  technologies  and market  segments,  is to respond to these
market  developments  with a unified packaging of our NYFIX Network as a "global
utility." We offer  products  that are  designed to address the  above-described
needs while providing automatic and seamless unification of the data-elements of
trade-management,   trade-routing,   market   access,   computerized   execution
enhancements and real-time transaction statistics.

        For our traditional  Technology Service segment, we see our strategy for
2005 as effectively managing our customer base. While we see limited opportunity
for revenue growth,  we believe that we have the opportunity to generate profits
and maintain this strategically  important component of our overall product mix.
We believe we can  maintain  our  position as a leading  provider of  technology
solutions.  While  the  market  continues  to  change,  our  goal is to focus on
"quality" revenue and enhanced profitability.

        In recent years, we have invested heavily in pursuing a  growth-oriented
strategy and have  organized  those efforts  largely  through our  subsidiaries.
After the  introduction  of our NYFIX Network in 1998,  although we  experienced
quarter over quarter  revenue  growth from 1999 through 2001, we also  generated
operating losses.  Thereafter, as a result of the impact of the tragic events of
September 11, 2001 on our customer base, the downturn in the financial  markets,
and the  fixed-cost  base of our  acquired  companies  we have not been  able to
generate sufficient revenue to offset our operating costs and, thus, experienced
operating  losses  through  2004.  We believe  that our  decision to continue to
invest  during the last  three  years is an  important  factor to help us become
better positioned to take advantage of future opportunities. We have entered new
customer  market  segments,  launched  new products and continue to pursue other
opportunities to support trading for a variety of financial  instruments in more
markets while increasing our international business opportunities.

APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

        This MD&amp;A reviews our consolidated financial statements, which have been
prepared in accordance  with  accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the
United States of America. These principles require us to make estimates based on
assumptions,  which, if not accurate,  could materially  affect our consolidated
financial statements, including the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense and
the  disclosure  of  contingent  assets  and  liabilities  at  the  date  of the
consolidated financial statements and future reporting periods.

        Estimates,  including  assumptions  related  to: the  collectibility  of
accounts  receivable;  the useful lives of tangible and intangible  assets;  the
recoverability  of goodwill;  the  realization  of deferred tax assets;  revenue
recognition;  product  enhancement  costs;  income taxes; and  contingencies are
reviewed  periodically  and  the  effects  of  revisions  are  reflected  in the
consolidated  financial  statements  in the  period  they are  determined  to be
necessary.  We base our estimates on historical  experience and on various other
factors and assumptions that we consider to be reasonable,  the results of which
form the basis for making estimates and assumptions about the carrying values of

                                       38

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  Actual
results may differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions.

        We believe  the  accounting  policies  described  below are  critical to
understanding  our  consolidated  financial  statements.  Refer to Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for our significant accounting policies.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

        We  recognize  revenue in  accordance  with the SEC's  Staff  Accounting
Bulletin  ("SAB") No. 101,  REVENUE  RECOGNITION  IN  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS,  as
amended by SAB 101A and 101B ("SAB 101") and SAB 104, REVENUE  RECOGNITION.  SAB
101  requires  that  four  basic  criteria  must be met  before  revenue  can be
recognized:  (1) persuasive  evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has
occurred or services have been rendered;  (3) the fee is fixed and determinable;
and (4) collectibility is reasonably assured.  Determination of criteria (3) and
(4) are based on our judgment  regarding the fixed nature of the fee charged for
products  delivered  and the  collectibility  of those fees.  Should  changes in
conditions  cause us to determine  these criteria are not met for certain future
transactions,  revenue  recognized  for any reporting  period could be adversely
impacted.

        We recognize  revenue from  software  arrangements  in  accordance  with
American  Institute  of  Certified  Public  Accountants'  Statement  of Position
("SOP") 97-2, SOFTWARE REVENUE RECOGNITION as amended by SOP 98-9,  MODIFICATION
OF SOP 97-2 WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN  TRANSACTIONS.  Revenue is  recognized  when
persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists and delivery has occurred, provided
the fee is fixed or determinable, collectibility is probable and the arrangement
does not require significant customization or modification of the software.

        We recognize revenue for contracts with multiple deliverables, which are
not  covered  under  SOP  97-2,  in  accordance  with the  Financial  Accounting
Standards  Board's  ("FASB")  Emerging  Issues Task Force 00-21,  ACCOUNTING FOR
REVENUE  ARRANGEMENTS WITH MULTIPLE  DELIVERABLES  ("EITF No. 00-21").  EITF No.
00-21  applies to  certain  contractually  binding  arrangements  under  which a
company performs  multiple revenue  generating  activities and requires that all
companies   account  for  each  element  within  an  arrangement  with  multiple
deliverables as separate units of accounting if (a) the delivered item has value
on a stand-alone  basis,  (b) there is objective  and reliable  evidence of fair
value and (c) the amount of the total  arrangement  consideration is fixed. EITF
No.  00-21 was  effective  for revenue  arrangements  entered  into in reporting
periods  beginning  after June 15, 2003 and was adopted by us effective  July 1,
2003.

        Our  revenue  is  comprised  of  subscription,   capital  sale,  service
contract, and transaction components, described as follows:

        Subscription  revenue  contracts are  primarily  with  brokerage  firms,
international banks and global exchanges trading in equities and/or derivatives.
Subscription  revenue contracts are for providing equipment and services and for
use of our NYFIX  Network,  with an initial term of generally one to three years
with  automatic  renewal  periods  unless we  receive  prior  written  notice of
cancellation. Additional services, provided under schedules, or addendums to the
contract,  are either  co-terminus with the original contract or have provisions
similar to the original contract.  Under the terms of the subscription contracts
and addendums,  customers  typically  contract for a flat periodic  charge after
initial  installation and acceptance.  The revenue related to these contracts is
recognized over the term of the contract, or addendum, on a straight-line basis.
We also include  within our  subscription  revenue  telecommunication  and other
charges,  which we provide to the  customer at cost plus a normal  profit.  Such
revenue is  recognized  as the services are  provided.  As we have no history of
significant cancellations, we do not record a reserve for cancellations.

                                       39

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

        Capital  sale  revenue,  which  primarily  is  comprised of software and
capital equipment sales and professional  services fees, is generated  primarily
by sales to customers in the futures,  options and currencies  trading market or
to those customers who typically acquire software licenses in perpetuity, and is
recognized upon shipment of the product and acceptance by the customer.  Capital
sale revenue  pertaining to software sales is recognized in accordance  with SOP
97-2,  described  above.  As we have no history of significant  sales returns or
allowances, we do not record a reserve for sales returns and allowances.

        Service contract  revenue,  which is comprised of maintenance  contracts
for  subscription  equipment and software and capital  equipment,  is recognized
over the  contract  period  on a  straight-line  basis.  Service  contracts  for
subscription equipment are generally co-terminus with the subscription contract.
Service contracts for software and capital equipment, typically characterized as
a percentage of the original  capital sale amount,  are generally for an initial
term of one to three  years with  automatic  renewal  periods  unless we receive
prior written notice of  cancellation.  Certain  service  contracts  provide for
invoicing in advance of the service being performed, generally quarterly.

        Transaction revenue primarily consists of per-share  commissions charged
to  customers  who send and  receive  a match  and  execution  in our ATS  order
matching  system,  and  customers to whom we provide  execution  and smart order
routing  technology and gateways to access markets in: (1) their own name, (2) a
third  party  give up name,  or (3) our  name.  Revenue  on these  contracts  is
generally  invoiced monthly in arrears or is extracted from the clearing process
within three days of the trade date and  recognized in the period in which it is
earned.   Certain   transaction   revenue  contracts,   which  include  multiple
deliverables, or other types of our revenue are accounted for in accordance with
EITF No. 00-21,  described  above.  Some of these  contracts have minimum volume
commitments or are invoiced at a minimum  transaction-based fee. The arrangement
consideration  is allocated to each element based on the relative fair values of
each  element.  We account  for each  element of an  arrangement  with  multiple
deliverables  separately.  Vendor specific  objective evidence for fair value of
services is primarily determined by reference to renewal pricing.

        Revenue on contracts  that is invoiced in advance of the services  being
performed is deferred and  recognized  as revenue in the period earned and until
earned is included in "deferred  revenue" in our  consolidated  balance  sheets.
Shipping, handling and installation charges, if any, are generally invoiced to a
customer and are included in revenue upon completion of the installation.

ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS

        We are required to estimate the  collectibility of our trade receivables
and a  considerable  amount of judgment is required in  assessing  the  ultimate
realization  of  receivables,  including the current  credit-worthiness  of each
customer.  We maintain  allowances  for doubtful  accounts for estimated  losses
resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments.  If the
financial  condition  of our  customers  were to  deteriorate,  resulting  in an
impairment  of their  ability to make  payments,  additional  allowances  may be
required.  The  collectibility  of accounts  receivable is evaluated  based on a
combination  of  factors.  In  circumstances  where we are  aware of a  specific
customer's  inability  to  meet  its  financial  obligations  (e.g.,  bankruptcy
filings),  a specific  reserve for bad debts is recorded against amounts due, to
reduce the net recognized receivable to the amount we reasonably believe will be
collected.  For all other  customers,  we estimate a reserve for bad debts based
upon applying certain  percentages,  based on historical loss trends, to certain
accounts  receivable  aging  categories,  net of accounts  receivable  for which
revenue  recognition has been deferred.  If circumstances  change (i.e.,  higher
than  expected  defaults or an  unexpected  material  adverse  change in a major
customer's  ability to meet its financial  obligations  to us), our estimates of
the recoverability of amounts due to us could be reduced by a material amount.

                                       40

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

        Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated  depreciation.
Included in equipment are certain costs related to the  development of our NYFIX
Network to support our subscription and service based  businesses.  Depreciation
of property and equipment is provided  using the  straight-line  method over its
estimated useful lives. Changes in circumstances such as technological advances,
changes to our business model or changes in the capital strategy could result in
the actual useful lives differing from initial  estimates.  In those cases where
we determine that the useful life of long-lived asset should be revised, we will
depreciate the net book value in excess of the estimated residual value over its
revised remaining useful life.

ACQUISITIONS AND GOODWILL

        Net assets of  companies  we acquired  have been  recorded at their fair
value at the  date of  acquisition.  Goodwill  represents  acquisition  costs in
excess of the fair value of net assets  acquired  and  liabilities  assumed.  We
adopted  FASB  Statement  of Financial  Accounting  Standards  ("SFAS") No. 142,
GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE  ASSETS effective  January 1, 2002. The provisions
of SFAS No. 142 require that we allocate  our goodwill to our various  reporting
units,  determine the carrying value of those businesses,  and estimate the fair
value of the reporting units so that a two-step goodwill  impairment test can be
performed.  Our reporting units represent  components of our operating  segments
and  are  the  same  as the  reportable  segments  identified  in Note 16 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.  In the first step of the goodwill impairment
test, the fair value of each  reporting unit is compared to its carrying  value.
If the fair value  exceeds the carrying  value,  goodwill is not impaired and no
further testing is performed. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, then
the second step must be  performed,  and the implied fair value of the reporting
unit's  goodwill  must be determined  and compared to the carrying  value of the
goodwill for the  reporting  unit. If the carrying  value of a reporting  unit's
goodwill  exceeds its implied fair value,  then an impairment  loss equal to the
difference is recorded.  In the absence of  circumstances  requiring  impairment
testing on a  quarterly  or other more  frequent  basis,  our annual  impairment
testing date is the beginning of our fourth quarter, which is October 1. For the
years  ended  December  31,  2004,  2003 and 2002,  there was no  indication  of
impairment  for  either  of  our  reporting  units  -  Transaction  Services  or
Technology  Services as the present value of the discounted future cash flows of
each reporting  unit exceeded  their carrying  values as of October 1, 2004, the
date of our annual impairment analysis.

PRODUCT ENHANCEMENT COSTS

        Costs incurred in the research,  design and  development of software for
sale to others as a separate  product or  embedded in a product and sold as part
of the product as a whole are charged to expense until technological feasibility
is established.  Thereafter, software development costs, consisting primarily of
payroll and related costs,  purchased  materials and services and software to be
used within our  products,  which  significantly  enhance the  marketability  or
significantly extend the life of our products are capitalized,  and amortized to
cost of revenue on a  straight-line  basis over three years,  beginning when the
products are offered for sale or when the  enhancements  are integrated into the
product.  We are required to use  professional  judgment in determining  whether
product   enhancement   costs  meet  the  criteria  for  immediate   expense  or
capitalization,  in  accordance  with SFAS No. 86,  ACCOUNTING  FOR THE COSTS OF
COMPUTER SOFTWARE TO BE SOLD, LEASED, OR OTHERWISE MARKETED.

                                       41

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

LONG-LIVED ASSETS

        We review the carrying value of long-lived  assets,  including  property
and  equipment;  intangible  assets;  investments,  notes  receivable  and other
amounts due from unconsolidated  affiliates; and capitalized product enhancement
costs for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount may not be fully  recoverable.  If such an event or circumstances  occur,
the related estimated fair value of the assets would be compared to the carrying
amount,  and if needed, we would record an impairment to the extent by which the
carrying amount exceeded the fair value of the assets. We test intangible assets
with  indefinite  lives annually for impairment  using a fair value  methodology
such as discounted cash flows.  There was no impairment of our long-lived assets
recorded for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

INCOME TAXES

        We account for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  ACCOUNTING
FOR INCOME TAXES ("SFAS No. 109"),  which  requires  recognition of deferred tax
assets and liabilities  for the expected future tax  consequences of events that
have been included in the consolidated financial statements or tax returns using
presently  enacted income tax rates.  To the extent we believe there will not be
sufficient taxable income to utilize these assets prior to their expiration,  we
would record a valuation allowance against the unrealizable amount, and record a
charge against operating  results.  We established a valuation  allowance on our
deferred  tax assets,  in  accordance  with SFAS No.  109,  of $25.6  million at
December 31, 2004. Where there are cumulative  losses in recent years,  SFAS No.
109 requires,  except in very limited circumstances,  that a valuation allowance
be  established.  We did not have taxable income in the years ended December 31,
2004,  2003 or 2002.  We  previously  estimated  that our  deferred  tax assets,
consisting  primarily  of  tax  credit  carryforwards  and  net  operating  loss
carryforwards,  would be realized and no valuation allowance was required, based
on revenue and operating expense assumptions.  During the third quarter of 2004,
our general and  administrative  expenses related to our initial compliance with
Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley  and legal expenses increased more than forecasted
and we expect these costs, legal fees in particular, to remain at high levels in
the near term. These cost increases, together with revenues from our Transaction
Services  segment  being  impacted  by much lower than  expected  volumes in the
equity  markets,  particularly  during the month of September,  were the primary
reasons we reduced  our  forecast  for the  near-term.  Until we can achieve and
sustain an appropriate level of  profitability,  we plan to maintain a valuation
allowance on our deferred tax assets.

CONTINGENCIES

        Contingencies  are recorded as  liabilities  when it is probable  that a
liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss is reasonably  estimable.
Disclosure  is required when there is at least a reasonable  possibility  that a
loss has been  incurred  or that the  ultimate  loss  may  exceed  the  recorded
provision.  We use  outside  counsel to assist us in various  matters  including
regulations,  acquisitions,  trademark,  patent, personnel and other matters. We
rely  on the  professional  judgment  of  outside  counsel  as  well  as our own
assessment in determining whether contingencies should be recorded.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

        We  account  for  stock-based   compensation  for  employees  under  the
recognition  and  measurement  provisions  of the  Accounting  Principles  Board
("APB") Opinion No. 25, ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK ISSUED TO EMPLOYEES ("APB No. 25"),
and related  interpretations  and have elected the  disclosure-only  alternative
under  SFAS  No.  123,  ACCOUNTING  FOR  STOCK-BASED  COMPENSATION.  Stock-based
compensation expense of $0.2 million, $0.7 million and $2.5 million was included
in our operating  results for the years ended December 31, 2004,  2003 and 2002,
respectively, relating to the intrinsic value of certain stock options where the

                                       42

<PAGE>

                                   NYFIX, INC.

fair  value of our  common  stock on the  measurement  date was in excess of the
exercise  price.  In accordance  with SFAS No. 148,  ACCOUNTING  FOR STOCK BASED
COMPENSATION-TRANSITION  AND  DISCLOSURE,  we  will  continue  to  disclose  the
required  pro  forma  information  in the  notes to the  consolidated  financial
statements.

OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS

        The tables provided below present various views of our revenue and gross
profit. The following table presents our revenue,  gross profit and gross profit
as a percentage of revenue, by reportable segment for the years indicated:

                                                         YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                              --------------------------------------------
                                                  2004              2003            2002
                                              --------------    -------------   ----------
                                                               ($ IN THOUSANDS)
Revenue:
        Technology Services                    $     60,439     $     54,156     $ 48,365
        Transaction Services                         17,424           14,343        7,597
        Eliminations                                 (2,728)          (2,590)        (150)
                                               ------------     ------------     --------
           Total revenue                       $     75,135     $     65,909     $ 55,812
                                               ============     ============     ========

Revenue, as a percentage of total revenue:
        Technology Services                             81%              82%          87%
        Transaction Services                            23%              22%          13%
        Eliminations                                   (4)%             (4)%         (0)%
                                               ------------     ------------     --------
           Total                                       100%             100%         100%
                                               ============     ============     ========

Gross profit:
        Technology Services                    $     29,228     $     27,841     $ 27,105
        Transaction Services                          4,577            3,401          285
                                               ------------     ------------     --------
           Total gross profit                  $     33,805     $     31,242     $ 27,390
                                               ============     ============     ========

Gross profit, as a percentage of revenue:
        Technology Services                             48%              51%          56%
        Transaction Services                            26%              24%           4%
           Total                                        45%              47%          49%

        Discussion of segment  revenue,  cost of revenue and gross profit within
MD&amp;A includes intercompany revenue and cost of revenue, which are eliminated, as
shown above, in consolidation.

        The following table shows our revenue, cost of revenue, gross profit and
operating expense expressed as percentages of revenue for the years indicated:

                                       43

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

                                                   YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                ---------------------------
                                                   2004      2003    2002
                                                ---------  ------  --------

REVENUE:
   Subscription                                     54%      53%      57%
   Capital sale                                     12%      14%      15%
   Service contract                                 14%      14%      15%
   Transaction                                      20%      19%      13%
                                                -------    ------  --------
     Total revenue                                 100%     100%     100%
                                                -------    ------  --------

COST OF REVENUE:
   Subscription                                     58%      59%      51%
   Capital sale                                     40%      34%      35%
   Service contract                                 37%      31%      28%
   Transaction                                      69%      65%      98%
                                                -------    ------  --------
     Total cost of revenue                          55%      53%      51%
                                                -------    ------  --------

GROSS PROFIT:
   Subscription                                     42%      41%      49%
   Capital sale                                     60%      66%      65%
   Service contract                                 63%      69%      72%
   Transaction                                      31%      35%       2%
                                                -------    ------  --------
     Total gross profit                             45%      47%      49%
                                                -------    ------  --------

OPERATING EXPENSE:
   Selling, general and administrative              54%      55%      58%
   Restructuring charge                              3%       0%       0%
   Research and development                          1%       2%       3%
   Equity in loss of unconsolidated affiliates       0%       1%       4%
   Depreciation and amortization                     3%       4%       6%
                                                -------    ------  --------
     Total operating expense                        61%      62%      71%
                                                -------    ------  --------

        Our  revenue  is  described  in  REVENUE  RECOGNITION  in the  preceding
section.

        Cost of revenue  principally  consists of costs associated with our data
centers  where  we  maintain   equipment  and   infrastructure  to  support  our
operations,  amortization of capitalized  product enhancement costs and acquired
intangible  assets,  depreciation  of  subscription  equipment  and other direct
costs, including customer-specific  telecommunication costs, execution, clearing
fees and market data feeds. Certain data center costs, such as labor,  equipment
maintenance,  software support and depreciation and amortization,  are allocated
across our lines of business based on usage estimates.

        Operating  expense is comprised of selling,  general and  administrative
("SG&amp;A"),  research and development  ("R&amp;D"),  equity in loss of  unconsolidated
affiliates and depreciation and amortization.  SG&amp;A expense consists of salaries
and  benefits,  office rent and other  office  expense,  provision  for doubtful
accounts, and marketing expense. SG&amp;A expense is allocated to our segments based
on usage estimates.  Equity in loss of unconsolidated affiliates consists of 40%
of EuroLink's  operating losses from March 6, 2002 through March 28, 2004 (which

                                       44

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

is when we acquired the  remaining 60% of EuroLink that we did not already own),
18% of Renaissance's operating losses from October 2, 2002 through June 30, 2003
(which is when we acquired the remaining 82% of  Renaissance's  membership units
that we did not already  own) and 100% of NYFIX  Millennium's  operating  losses
prior to our  exercising  the  Option  on  February  1,  2002,  which is when we
acquired an additional 30% ownership interest in NYFIX Millennium,  resulting in
our 80% ownership interest in NYFIX Millennium, regained control of its Board of
Directors and consolidated its financial statements.  R&amp;D expense relates to our
cost of developing new products and  technologies to meet the current and future
needs of our customers,  up to the point of technical feasibility at which point
we capitalize such costs to bring our products to market.  R&amp;D expense  consists
primarily of salaries and related costs for our technical and development staff.
Depreciation and amortization expense consists of such expense for our corporate
equipment and software and amortization of certain intangible assets.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003

REVENUE

        The following table presents an overview of our revenue:

                                         YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                              ---------------------------------------------
                                     2004                    2003
                                  $         %            $         %
                              -------------------     ---------------------
                                          ($ IN THOUSANDS)
Technology Services:
   Subscription               $ 40,982      68%       $ 35,831      66%
   Capital sale                  8,929      15%          8,955      17%
   Service contract             10,528      17%          9,370      17%
                             ---------                --------
     Sub-total                  60,439      80%         54,156      82%
                             ---------                --------
Transaction Services:
   Subscription                  2,637      15%          1,611      11%
   Transaction                  14,787      85%         12,732      89%
                             ---------                --------
     Sub-total                  17,424      23%         14,343      22%
                             ---------                --------
Eliminations:
   Subscription                 (2,728)     n/a         (2,590)     n/a
                             --------                 --------
     Sub-total                  (2,728)     n/a         (2,590)     n/a
                             ---------                --------
Total revenue
   Subscription                 40,891      53%         34,852      53%
   Capital sale                  8,929      12%          8,955      14%
   Service contract             10,528      14%          9,370      14%
   Transaction                  14,787      20%         12,732      19%
                             ---------                --------
     Consolidated revenue     $ 75,135     100%       $ 65,909     100%
                             =========                ========

Segment subtotals are presented as a percentage of consolidated revenue.

        Consolidated  revenue  increased $9.2 million,  or 14%, to $75.1 million
for 2004 as compared to $65.9 million for 2003.

        Our Technology  Services segment revenue increased $6.2 million, or 11%,
to $60.4 million for 2004 as compared to $54.2 million for 2003.

                                       45

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

        Subscription  revenue for our Technology  Services segment  increased to
$41.0 million for 2004 from $35.8 million for 2003.  This $5.2 million  increase
was primarily attributable to a $4.5 million increase in subscription revenue as
a result of our buy-side  initiative,  as described below, and a net increase of
$0.7  million  in  subscription   revenue  from  our   traditional   technology,
derivatives, Renaissance and Javelin products primarily due to a net increase in
customers.  In August 2002,  we began a direct  marketing  initiative to connect
buy-side  institutions  to our expansive  NYFIX Network.  We expect our buy-side
related  subscription  revenue to continue to increase in 2005 as we continue to
add buy-side  customers.  In addition,  with the  integration of the Renaissance
Nasdaq  trading  platform  product  into our product  offering,  we expect a net
increase in customers and subscription revenue in 2005.

        Capital  sale  revenue  for our  Technology  Services  segment  was $8.9
million  for 2004 as  compared to $9.0  million  for 2003.  Reduced  Javelin and
derivatives products capital sales were largely offset by increased professional
service fee revenue  related to our derivatives  products.  Capital sale revenue
continues to vary  considerably  from  quarter to quarter.  While we expect that
capital sale revenue will be comparable  in 2005 to 2004, we cannot  predict the
timing and consistency of such revenue.

        Service revenue for our Technology  Services segment  increased to $10.5
million for 2004 from $9.4 million for 2003, which was primarily attributable to
an  increase  in service  revenue  related  to the  aforementioned  increase  in
subscription  revenue  related to our  buy-side  initiative,  and an increase in
maintenance revenue, which was based on prior capital sale revenue.

        As a  percentage  of total  revenue,  our  Technology  Services  segment
decreased to 80% for 2004 from 82% for 2003,  primarily as Transaction  Services
segment revenue, described below, grew at a faster pace in 2004.

        Our Transaction Services segment revenue increased $3.1 million, or 21%,
to $17.4 million for 2004 as compared to $14.3 million for 2003. Our Transaction
Services  customer base  increased in 2004 to 195 from 100 at December 31, 2003,
averaging  153  and  77  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  2004  and  2003,
respectively.  Average  revenue per customer  decreased to $114,000 in 2004 from
$186,000 in 2003. The decrease in average revenue per customer was attributed to
a decrease in revenue from several  large  customers  and an increase in smaller
customers.  The average revenue attributed to customers'  orderflow was lower in
2004 than in 2003 as a result  of lower  volume of  orderflow  executed  for the
average customer, coupled with continuous downward pressure on per-share pricing
for such  customers.  The  acquisition  of  EuroLink  and the  startup  of NYFIX
International in March 2004 did not have a significant effect on revenue for the
year ended December 31, 2004. For our Transaction Services segment, we expect to
continue to add customers throughout 2005 with the emphasis placed on adding the
buy-side  customers to NYFIX Transaction  Services.  We expect this component of
our  business  to continue to grow as a  percentage  of the overall  Transaction
Services  segment.  As a percentage of total revenue,  our Transaction  Services
segment  increased to 23% for 2004 from 22% for 2003. We expect our  Transaction
Services segment revenue to be a larger  percentage of our consolidated  revenue
in future periods.

COST OF REVENUE

        The following table presents an overview of our cost of revenue:

                                       46

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

                                                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                 ------------------------------------------------------
                                                         2004                          2003
                                                    $                %            $               %
                                                 -----------------------      -------------------------
                                                                   ($ in thousands)
Technology Services:
   Subscription                                  $ 23,755            76%      $ 20,350            77%
   Capital sale                                     3,601            12%         3,068            12%
   Service contract                                 3,855            12%         2,897            11%
                                                ---------                     --------
     Sub-total                                     31,211            52%        26,315            49%
                                                ---------                     --------
Transaction Services:
   Subscription                                     2,467            19%         1,541            14%
   Transaction                                     10,380            81%         9,401            86%
                                                ---------                     --------
     Sub-total                                     12,847            74%        10,942            76%
                                                ---------                     --------
Corporate and Eliminations:
   Corporate:
   Data center and telecommunications              21,201                       18,685
   Fixed asset depreciation and amortization        5,592                        5,413
   Amortization of product enhancement costs        3,850                        2,657
Allocated to:
   Technology Services                            (25,683)                     (22,122)
   Transaction Services                            (4,960)                      (4,633)
                                                ---------                     --------
     Sub-total                                       --                           --
                                                ---------                     --------
Eliminations:
   Subscription                                    (2,530)          n/a         (1,472)          n/a
   Transaction                                       (198)          n/a         (1,118)          n/a
                                                ---------                     --------
     Sub-total                                     (2,728)          n/a         (2,590)          n/a
                                                ---------                     --------
Consolidated cost of revenue                     $ 41,330            55%      $ 34,667            53%
                                                =========                     ========


Segment subtotals are presented as a percentage of segment revenue.

        Consolidated  cost of revenue  increased $6.6 million,  or 19%, to $41.3
million for 2004 as compared to $34.7 million for 2003. The primary  factors for
the  increase in 2004 were labor  costs of $2.2  million,  primarily  to support
Renaissance,   Javelin  and  traditional  products,   product  enhancement  cost
depreciation  and  intangible  asset  amortization  of $1.7  million,  which was
primarily  due to increased  investment  in our  Technology  Services  products,
transaction  execution  expenses,  including  clearing  fees,  of $1.2  million,
related to the increase in our transaction  revenue,  telecommunication  expense
and cross  connection  fees of $1.1  million,  primarily to support our buy-side
initiative,  and other $0.2 million. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue
increased  to  55%  for  2004,  from  53%  for  2003,  as  the  increase  in the
aforementioned  Technology  Services  costs and  Transaction  Services  costs as
discussed   below  exceeded  the  increases  in  our  Technology   Services  and
Transaction Services revenue.

        Our Technology  Services segment cost of revenue increased $4.9 million,
or 19%, to $31.2  million  for 2004  compared  to $26.3  million for 2003.  This
increase was primarily attributable to higher allocated corporate expenses, such
as  data  center  and  service  support  labor,   telecommunications   expenses,
depreciation  and  amortization  of fixed  assets  and  amortization  of product
enhancement  costs,  of $3.6 million.  These costs were  supplemented  by higher
direct  network  connection  expenses of $0.5 million and other expenses of $0.4
million.  As a percentage of segment revenue,  our cost of revenue  increased to
52% in 2004,  from 49% in 2003,  as the  increase in such costs grew at a faster
rate than our revenue in this segment. We expect to see a slight decrease in our
cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue in 2005 as many of the investments in
property  and  equipment in our data center and network  infrastructure  made in
recent years should yield lower costs as a percentage of revenue.

                                       47

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

        Our Transaction Services segment cost of revenue increased $1.9 million,
or 17%,  to $12.8  million  for 2004  compared  to $10.9  million  for 2003.  In
addition to the previously described increase in transaction  execution expenses
of $1.1  million,  cost of revenue  increased by $0.7 million  comprised of $0.4
million in allocated corporate expenses and $0.3 million of other expenses.  The
acquisition of EuroLink and the startup of NYFIX International in March 2004 did
not have a significant effect on cost of revenue for the year ended December 31,
2004. As a percentage of segment revenue,  cost of revenue  decreased to 74% for
2004, from 76% for 2003, as the increase in our costs grew at a slower rate than
our revenue. We expect our cost of revenue to further decline as a percentage of
Transaction  Services  segment  revenue  in 2005.  This is  attributable  to the
expected increases in revenue and the change in customer mix as described above,
which should  enable us to spread our fixed costs over a greater  revenue  base,
and  reduced  execution  expenses  partially  as a result of  self-clearing  our
trades.

GROSS PROFIT AND GROSS PROFIT MARGIN (AS A PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE)

        The following  table  presents an overview of our gross profit and gross
profit margin:

                                              YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                   --------------------------------------------
                                           2004                  2003
                                        $        %           $          %
                                   --------------------   --------------------
                                              ($ IN THOUSANDS)
Technology Services:
   Subscription                    $ 17,227      42%      $ 15,481      43%
   Capital sale                       5,328      60%         5,887      66%
   Service contract                   6,673      63%         6,473      69%
                                   --------               --------
     Sub-total                       29,228      48%        27,841      51%
                                   --------               --------
Transaction Services:
   Subscription                         170       6%            70       4%
   Transaction                        4,407      30%         3,331      26%
                                   --------               --------
     Sub-total                        4,577      26%         3,401      24%
                                   --------               --------
Eliminations:
   Subscription                        (198)     n/a        (1,118)     n/a
   Transaction                          198      n/a         1,118      n/a
                                   --------               --------
     Sub-total                         --        n/a          --        n/a
                                   --------               --------
Total gross profit:
   Subscription                      17,199      42%        14,433      41%
   Capital sale                       5,328      60%         5,887      66%
   Service contract                   6,673      63%         6,473      69%
   Transaction                        4,605      31%         4,449      35%
                                   --------               --------
     Consolidated gross profit     $ 33,805      45%      $ 31,242      47%
                                   ========               ========

Percentages  are  presented  as a  percentage  of  segment  revenue,  except for
consolidated  gross profit  percentages,  which are presented as a percentage of
consolidated revenue.

        Consolidated  gross profit  increased  $2.6 million to $33.8 million for
2004 from $31.2 million for 2003.  Our gross profit margin  decreased to 45% for
2004,  as compared to 47% for 2003 as our cost of revenues grew at a higher rate
than our revenue.

                                       48

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

        Our Technology  Services  segment gross profit increased $1.4 million to
$29.2  million for 2004 from $27.8  million for 2003. As a percentage of segment
revenue,  gross profit margin  decreased to 48% for 2004 from 51% for 2003.  The
decrease in gross profit  margin is  primarily  attributable  to the  previously
described  increases in our costs,  which grew faster than  revenue,  as we were
generally  unable to pass  increased  costs to our customers due to  competitive
pricing  pressures.  We  expect to see  slight  improvements  in our  Technology
Services segment gross profit margin in 2005, as many of the improvements to our
data center and network  infrastructure  made in recent years should yield lower
costs as a percentage of revenue.

        Our Transaction  Services segment gross profit increased $1.2 million to
$4.6 million for 2004 from $3.4  million for 2003.  The increase in gross profit
was primarily  attributable to the previously  described increase in transaction
revenue.  Transaction  Services segment gross profit margin increased to 26% for
2004, as compared to 24% for 2003 as execution  costs  decreased as a percentage
of revenue,  primarily as a result of reduced rate of broker and clearing  fees.
The acquisition of EuroLink and the startup of NYFIX International in March 2004
did not have a  significant  effect on gross profit for the year ended  December
31,  2004.  We expect  our  Transaction  Services  segment  gross  margin,  as a
percentage of revenue,  to continue to improve in 2005.  This is attributable to
our  expected  increases in customers  and  revenue,  which should  enable us to
spread our fixed costs over a greater  revenue base, and continued  reduction in
execution  and  clearing  expenses as a result of  utilizing  fewer  introducing
brokers and self-clearing our trades through NYFIX Clearing.

SG&amp;A

        The following table presents an overview of our SG&amp;A expense:

                                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                              2004                 2003
                                            $       %           $         %
                                        ----------------     ----------------
                                                   ($ in thousands)
Salaries and benefits                   $22,973     56%      $21,239     58%
Provision for doubtful accounts             763      2%        2,831      8%
Occupancy and related                     4,094     10%        3,817     10%
Marketing, travel and entertainment       2,976      7%        2,382      7%
Professional fees                         5,664     14%        2,527      7%
General and other                         4,359     11%        3,598     10%
                                       --------              -------
    Total SG&amp;A                      $40,829     54%      $36,394     55%
                                       ========              =======

The total SG&amp;A is presented as a percentage of consolidated revenue.

        SG&amp;A expense increased $4.4 million,  or 12%, to $40.8 million for 2004,
as compared to $36.4 million for 2003.  The increase was primarily  attributable
to increased professional and consulting fees of $3.1 million due principally to
professional  fees  incurred  in  connection  with the  restatement  of our 1999
through 2002 financial statements in May 2004, the class-action  complaint filed
against us, SEC matters and consulting  fees related to  Sarbanes-Oxley  initial
Section  404  compliance;  increased  salaries  and  benefits  of  $1.7  million
primarily  due to  increased  staffing  related  to our  July  2003  Renaissance
acquisition,  annual merit  increases  which were effective  January 1, 2004 and
increased health care costs,  which were partially  offset by lower  stock-based
compensation expense; increased marketing,  travel and entertainment expenses of
$0.6  million,  primarily  related to the  commencement  of operation  for NYFIX
International  and increased  occupancy and related expenses of $0.3 million due
primarily to overlapping rent expense while we operated from two offices on Wall
Street and expenses  associated with EuroLink of $0.5 million.  These items were
partially  offset by a reduced  provision for doubtful  accounts of $2.1 million

                                       49

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

due to our  recording of a provision  of $2.2  million in the fourth  quarter of
2003. As a percentage of total revenue,  SG&amp;A expense  decreased to 54% for 2004
from 55% for 2003, as the increase in  consolidated  revenue was slightly higher
than the increase in SG&amp;A expense. We expect that our general and administrative
expenses,  particularly related to our professional fees, including legal, audit
and consulting fees in connection with the class-action  complaint filed against
us, SEC matters and  Sarbanes-Oxley  compliance  will remain at higher levels in
the near term. In addition,  we expect our employee benefit costs,  specifically
our primary health  insurance  rate, to increase  approximately  20% in 2005. To
partially offset the anticipated cost increases in 2005, we deferred most of our
employees' annual merit increases to be effective July 1, 2005.

        As discussed  below,  in February  2004, we entered into an agreement to
lease additional space at our 100 Wall Street office. Although we did not occupy
the  additional  space  until  August  2004,  in  accordance  with SFAS No.  13,
ACCOUNTING FOR LEASES, we commenced recording rent expense on February 1, 2004.

RESTRUCTURING CHARGE

        Effective  February  1, 2004,  we  entered  into an  agreement  to lease
additional space at our New York City offices at 100 Wall Street.  In connection
with this  agreement,  in the second quarter of 2004 we ceased use of one of our
other offices on Wall Street and commenced consolidating our operations into the
new space and eliminated 14 staff  positions.  In accordance  with SFAS No. 146,
ACCOUNTING FOR EXIT OR DISPOSAL  ACTIVITIES,  we recorded a charge to operations
of $2.5  million.  This charge  included  the fair value of the  remaining  rent
payments, net of anticipated sub-lease income, severance and write-offs of fixed
assets and  leasehold  improvements.  We now  maintain one office on Wall Street
comprising  35,800 square feet,  which is a 23% reduction from the 46,500 square
feet previously leased. In addition to operational efficiencies, we believe that
we can realize an annual lease savings of approximately  20% for our Wall Street
office.  We entered into  sub-lease  agreements  for the entire  premises of our
former office. We do not currently anticipate any restructuring charge in 2005.

R&amp;D

        R&amp;D expense  decreased  $0.4 million,  or 29%, to $1.0 million for 2004,
from $1.4  million for 2003 as our  software  developers  and quality  assurance
personnel  focused  their  efforts on enhancing  and  extending the lives of our
products. As a percentage of total revenue, R&amp;D expense decreased to 1% for 2004
from 2% for 2003. We expect to invest a similar amount in R&amp;D expense in 2005.

EQUITY IN LOSS OF UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES

        In 2004, we recognized  equity in the losses of EuroLink of $0.1 million
for the three months ended March 31, 2004. In 2003, we recognized  equity in the
losses of  EuroLink  of $0.4  million  and equity in the  losses of  Renaissance
through  June  30,  2003 of  $0.4  million.  We  accounted  for  our  previously
unconsolidated  affiliates,  EuroLink and  Renaissance,  under the equity method
through the acquisition dates of March 29, 2004 and July 1, 2003, respectively.

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION

        Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $0.3 million, or 12%, to
$2.3  million for 2004,  from $2.6  million for 2003 due to an increase in fully
depreciated  assets.  As  a  percentage  of  total  revenue,   depreciation  and
amortization  expense decreased to 3% for 2004 from 4% for 2003. The decrease as
a  percentage  of total  revenue was  primarily  attributable  to the  decreased
amortization  expense  compared  to the  increased  revenue.  We expect to see a
similar  decreasing trend of depreciation  and amortization  expense in the near
term.

                                       50

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

LOSS FROM OPERATIONS

        Loss from  operations  was $12.9 million for 2004, as compared to a loss
from  operations of $10.0 million for 2003.  The  increased  operating  loss was
primarily due to the restructuring  charge of $2.5 million;  higher SG&amp;A expense
of $4.4 million,  primarily due to professional  fees related to the restatement
of our 1999 through 2002  consolidated  financial  statements  in May 2004,  the
class-action complaint filed against us, SEC matters and consulting fees related
to  Sarbanes-Oxley  initial  Section 404  compliance.  The cost  increases  were
partially  offset by increased gross profit as described  above. As a percentage
of total revenue, loss from operations was a deficit of 17% for 2004 as compared
to a deficit  of 15% for  2003.  The  increased  loss as a  percentage  of total
revenue  was  attributable  primarily  to the  greater  percentage  increase  in
operating  expenses,  including  the  restructuring  charge,  as compared to the
percentage increase in revenue.

INTEREST EXPENSE

        Interest  expense  increased $0.6 million,  or 300%, to $0.8 million for
2004 from $0.2 million for 2003, primarily due to interest expense recognized on
sales tax obligations and accelerated  interest  expense on the notes to certain
Renaissance  unitholders  which were in default.  We expect interest  expense to
increase  in 2005,  primarily  as a result of a $7.5  million  convertible  note
issued on December 30, 2004.

INVESTMENT INCOME

        Investment  income  decreased $0.5 million,  or 83%, to $0.1 million for
2004 from $0.6 million for 2003, primarily due to lower interest income on loans
to  unconsolidated  affiliates  and lower  overall  invested  consolidated  cash
balances. We expect investment income to decrease in 2005.

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET

        Other income (expense), net increased $0.2 million in 2004 primarily due
to a loss of $0.1  million  on the  extinguishment  of debt in  connection  with
amended promissory notes to certain unitholders of Renaissance.

INCOME TAXES

        We recorded an income tax provision of $19.1 million for 2004,  compared
to a tax benefit of $4.6 million for 2003. We established  an initial  valuation
allowance on our deferred tax assets,  in accordance with SFAS No. 109, of $21.0
million during the quarter ended September 30, 2004.  Where there are cumulative
losses  in  recent  years,  SFAS  No.  109  requires,  except  in  very  limited
circumstances,  that a deferred tax asset valuation allowance be established. We
did not have  operating  income in the years ended  December 31,  2004,  2003 or
2002.  We had  previously  estimated  that our deferred  tax assets,  consisting
primarily of tax credit  carryforwards  and net  operating  loss  carryforwards,
would be realized and no valuation allowance was required,  based on revenue and
operating expense assumptions. During the third quarter of 2004, our general and
administrative expenses related to Sarbanes-Oxley initial Section 404 compliance
and legal fees increased more than  forecasted and we expect these costs,  legal
fees in  particular,  to remain  at high  levels in the near  term.  These  cost
increases,  together with revenues from our Transaction  Services  segment being
impacted by much lower than expected volumes in the equity markets, particularly
during the month of September,  were the primary reasons we reduced our forecast
for the  near-term.  Until we can achieve and  sustain an  appropriate  level of
profitability,  we plan to maintain a valuation  allowance  on our  deferred tax
assets,  and accordingly we expect our future income tax provision or benefit to
be minimal.

                                       51

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

        Our  effective  tax rate was 140% for 2004 as  compared to an income tax
benefit rate of 48% for 2003.  For 2004,  our effective tax rate was higher than
the Federal  statutory rate primarily due to the  establishment of the valuation
allowance  on our  deferred  tax assets of 188%.  For 2003,  our  effective  tax
benefit rate was higher than the Federal  statutory  rate  primarily  due to the
effects of recognition of certain research and development tax credits of 6% and
state income taxes of 6%.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002

REVENUE

        The following table presents an overview of our revenue:

                                        YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                            ------------------------------------------------
                                    2003                   2002
                                 $          %           $            %
                            ---------------------    -----------------------
                                             ($ IN THOUSANDS)
Technology Services:
  Subscription               $ 35,831      66%       $ 31,377      65%
  Capital sale                  8,955      17%          8,517      18%
  Service contract              9,370      17%          8,471      17%
                             --------                --------
    Sub-total                  54,156      82%         48,365      86%
                             --------                --------
Transaction Services:
  Subscription                  1,611      11%            488       6%
  Transaction                  12,732      89%          7,109      94%
                             --------                --------
    Sub-total                  14,343      22%          7,597      14%
                             --------                --------
Eliminations:
  Subscription                 (2,590)     n/a           (150)     n/a
                             --------                --------
    Sub-total                  (2,590)     n/a           (150)     n/a
                             --------                --------
Total revenue
  Subscription                 34,852      53%         31,715      57%
  Capital sale                  8,955      14%          8,517      15%
  Service contract              9,370      14%          8,471      15%
  Transaction                  12,732      19%          7,109      13%
                             --------                --------
    Consolidated revenue     $ 65,909     100%       $ 55,812     100%
                             ========                ========

Segment subtotals are presented as a percentage of consolidated revenue.

        Consolidated  revenue increased $10.1 million,  or 18%, to $65.9 million
in 2003 as compared to $55.8 million in 2002.

        Our Technology  Services segment revenue increased $5.8 million, or 12%,
to $54.2 million in 2003 as compared to $48.4 million in 2002.

        Subscription  revenue for our Technology Services segment increased $4.4
million,  or 14%, to $35.8  million for 2003 from $31.4  million for 2002.  This
increase  was  primarily  attributable  to an increase of $1.1  million from our
buy-side  initiative  and  a net  increase  in  subscription  revenue  from  our
traditional  technology  customers of $0.8 million.  In August 2002, we began an
initiative  to sell circuits to buy-side  institutions  in order to leverage our
expansive NYFIX Network.  Our traditional  technology average annualized revenue

                                       52

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

per customer was  $112,000 in 2003,  as compared to $114,000 in 2002.  While the
average revenue per customer decreased, our total number of customers increased.
At December 31, 2003, we had approximately 285 traditional equity customers,  up
from approximately 263 at December 31, 2002. In addition  subscription  revenues
attributable to our Javelin products increased $1.9 million,  to $9.7 million in
2003 from $7.8  million  in 2002,  primarily  due to  twelve  months of  Javelin
subscription  revenue  in 2003 as  compared  to nine  months  in 2002  since our
acquisition of Javelin in March 2002.

        Capital  sale  revenue  for our  Technology  Services  segment  was $9.0
million  for 2003 as  compared to $8.5  million  for 2002,  which was  primarily
attributable  to the  additional  three  months of Javelin  revenue  for 2003 as
compared to 2002.

        Service revenue for our Technology  Services  segment  increased to $9.4
million for 2003 from $8.5 million for 2002, which was primarily attributable to
an increase in service revenue based on our  subscription  revenue  increase and
the additional three months of service revenue for Javelin in 2003.

        Our Technology  Services segment revenue  increased $2.4 million related
to intercompany revenue, which was eliminated in consolidation, for products and
services provided to our Transaction Services segment for their customers.

        As a  percentage  of total  revenue,  our  Technology  Services  segment
decreased to 82% in 2003 from 86% in 2002.

        Our Transaction Services segment revenue increased $6.7 million, or 88%,
to $14.3 million in 2003 as compared to $7.6 million in 2002. Our  broker-dealer
subsidiaries,  NYFIX Transaction  Services and NYFIX Millennium operated for the
entire year in 2003. NYFIX Transaction Services did not begin generating revenue
until July 1, 2002 and we consolidated  NYFIX  Millennium upon acquisition of an
80% ownership  interest in February 2002;  thus our  broker-dealer  subsidiaries
generated  revenue  for six and  eleven  months,  respectively  in  2002.  NYFIX
Clearing  began  clearing  trades in November  2003,  and had only  intercompany
revenue,  which had been eliminated in consolidation.  Our Transaction  Services
customer  base  doubled  during  2003  from 50 at  December  31,  2002 to 100 at
December 2003,  averaging 77 for the year,  with average revenue per customer of
$186,000 in 2003. This average  annualized  revenue per customer  decreased from
$270,000  per  customer  in the first  quarter of 2003 to $150,000 in the fourth
quarter of 2003.  The decrease in average  revenue per customer  during 2003 was
attributed  to a decrease in revenue from several large  customers  from whom we
generate  revenue from DOT flow to the NYSE.  We compete with various  companies
that  also  offer  certain  execution  services  that we  view as a  low-margin,
"loss-leader"  services  to our  customers.  The  revenue  attributed  to  these
customers'  DOT flow was higher during the first half of 2003 than in the second
half of the year as a result of lowering rates to competitively keep and protect
the on-going business opportunity of any with such customers. As a percentage of
total revenue,  our Transaction  Services segment  increased from 14% in 2002 to
22% in 2003.

COST OF REVENUE

        The following table presents an overview of our cost of revenue:

                                       53

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

                                                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                ----------------------------------------------------
                                                            2003                      2002
                                                    $               %           $                %
                                                ------------------------     -----------------------
                                                                     ($ in thousands)
Technology Services:
  Subscription                                  $ 20,350            77%      $ 15,890            75%
  Capital sale                                     3,068            12%         2,958            14%
  Service contract                                 2,897            11%         2,412            11%
                                                --------                     --------
    Sub-total                                     26,315            49%        21,260            44%
                                                --------                     --------
Transaction Services:
  Subscription                                     1,541            14%           216             3%
  Transaction                                      9,401            86%         7,096            97%
                                                --------                     --------

    Sub-total                                     10,942            76%         7,312            96%
                                                --------                     --------

Corporate and Eliminations:
 Corporate:
  Data center and telecommunications              18,685                       16,140
  Fixed asset depreciation and amortization        5,413                        4,420
  Amortization of product enhancement costs        2,657                        2,352
Allocated to:
  Technology Services                            (22,122)                     (18,646)
  Transaction Services                            (4,633)                      (4,266)
                                                --------                     --------
    Sub-total                                       --                           --
                                                --------                     --------

Eliminations:
  Subscription                                    (1,472)          n/a           --             n/a
  Transaction                                     (1,118)          n/a           (150)          n/a
                                                --------                     --------
    Sub-total                                     (2,590)          n/a           (150)          n/a
                                                --------                     --------
Consolidated cost of revenue                    $ 34,667           53%       $ 28,422           51%
                                                ========                     ========

        Segment subtotals are presented as a percentage of segment revenue.

        Consolidated  cost of revenue  increased $6.3 million,  or 22%, to $34.7
million in 2003 as compared to $28.4  million in 2002.  The primary  factors for
the increase  were data center and  telecommunication  expense of $2.5  million,
depreciation  expense of $1.0 million and product  enhancement cost amortization
of $0.3 million,  which was primarily due to an increase in  infrastructure  and
capacity  in our data  centers  and  product  enhancements  costs to support our
Technology Services segment, including our derivatives,  Renaissance and Javelin
products as we integrated them with our traditional equity products and onto our
NYFIX Network. In addition, cost of revenue increased by $1.0 million, which was
attributable  to  execution,   clearing  and  specialist  fees  related  to  our
Transaction  Services revenue, and by $0.7 million for acquired intangible asset
amortization  due to a full year's expense in 2003 for the NYFIX  Millennium and
Javelin  acquisitions  as compared to eleven  months and nine months  expense in
2002,  respectively,  and  six  months  expense  in  2003  for  the  Renaissance
acquisition.  As a percentage of revenue, our cost of revenue increased slightly
to 53% in 2003, from 51% in 2002, as the increase in the Technology Services and
Transaction  Services costs offset the increase in our  Technology  Services and
Transaction Services revenue as mentioned below.

        Our Technology  Services segment cost of revenue increased $5.0 million,
or 24%,  to $26.3  million in 2003 as  compared  to $21.3  million in 2002.  The
increase was  primarily  attributed  to the  increases  in  allocated  corporate
expenses, such as data center and telecommunications expenses,  depreciation and
amortization of fixed assets and amortization of product  enhancement  costs and
amortization of acquired  intangible assets. In addition,  service contract cost
of revenue  increased $0.5 million,  or 21%, to $2.9 million for 2003, from $2.4

                                       54

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

million in 2002.  The increase  was  primarily  due to increased  labor costs to
support  our  products.  As a  percentage  of segment  revenue,  cost of revenue
increased  to 49% in 2003,  from 44% in 2002,  as the increase in the costs grew
faster than revenue.

        Our Transaction Services segment cost of revenue increased $3.6 million,
or 50%,  to $10.9  million  in 2003 as  compared  to $7.3  million  in 2002.  In
addition  to the  increase  in  transaction  related  expenses,  cost of revenue
increased  related to intercompany  charges  related to the Technology  Services
revenue passed through to Transaction Services customers, of $2.4 million, which
was eliminated in our consolidated cost of revenue.  As a percentage of revenue,
cost of revenue  decreased to 76% in 2003,  from 96% in 2002,  as the  increased
segment revenue absorbed relatively fixed costs.

GROSS PROFIT AND GROSS PROFIT MARGIN (AS A PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE)

        The following  table  presents an overview of our gross profit and gross
profit margin:

                                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                  ------------------------------------------
                                          2003                  2002
                                      $          %           $          %
                                  ------------------     -------------------
                                              ($ IN THOUSANDS)
Technology Services:
  Subscription                    $ 15,481      43%      $ 15,487      49%
  Capital sale                       5,887      66%         5,559      65%
  Service contract                   6,473      69%         6,059      72%
                                  --------               --------
    Sub-total                       27,841      51%        27,105      56%
                                  --------               --------
Transaction Services:
  Subscription                          70       4%           272      56%
  Transaction                        3,331      26%            13       0%
                                  --------               --------
    Sub-total                        3,401      24%           285       4%
                                  --------               --------
Eliminations:
  Subscription                      (1,118)    n/a           (150)    n/a
  Transaction                        1,118     n/a            150     n/a
                                  --------               --------
    Sub-total                         --       n/a           --       n/a
                                  --------               --------
Total gross profit:
  Subscription                      14,433      41%        15,609      49%
  Capital sale                       5,887      66%         5,559      65%
  Service contract                   6,473      69%         6,059      72%
  Transaction                        4,449      35%           163       2%
                                  --------               --------
    Consolidated gross profit     $ 31,242      47%      $ 27,390      49%
                                  ========               ========

Percentages  are  presented  as a  percentage  of  segment  revenue,  except for
consolidated  gross profit  percentages,  which are presented as a percentage of
consolidated revenue.

        Consolidated  gross profit  increased  $3.8 million to $31.2  million in
2003 from $27.4  million in 2002.  The  increases  in  Technology  Services  and
Transaction Services cost of revenue offset the increases in Technology Services
and Transaction Services revenue. Accordingly, our gross profit margin decreased
to 47% for 2003, as compared to 49% for 2002.

        Our Technology  Services  segment gross profit increased $0.7 million to
$27.8  million in 2003 from $27.1  million in 2002.  As a percentage  of segment

                                       55

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

revenue,  our gross profit margin decreased to 51% in 2003 from 56% in 2002. The
decrease in gross profit is primarily  attributable to the previously  described
increases  in our costs,  which grew  faster than  revenue as we were  generally
unable to pass  increased  costs to our  customers  due to  competitive  pricing
pressures.

        Our Transaction  Services segment gross profit increased $3.1 million to
$3.4  million in 2003 from $0.3  million  in 2002.  Transaction  Services  gross
profit  margin  increased  to 24% for 2003,  as  compared  to 4% for  2002.  The
increase  in gross  profit  was  attributable  to the  increase  in  transaction
revenue, which grew at a higher rate than costs. As mentioned previously,  NYFIX
Transaction  Services incurred costs for the entire year 2002, but did not start
generating revenue until July 1, 2002.

SG&amp;A

        The following table presents an overview of our SG&amp;A expense:

                                              YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                        -------------------------------------
                                              2003                2002
                                           $        %          $        %
                                        -----------------   ----------------
                                                ($ in thousands)
Salaries and benefits                   $21,239     58%      $19,881     62%
Provision for doubtful accounts           2,831      8%        1,146      3%
Occupancy and related                     3,817     10%        3,544     11%
Marketing, travel and entertainment       2,382      7%        2,825      9%
Professional fees                         2,527      7%        2,041      6%
General and other                         3,598     10%        2,803      9%
                                        -------             --------
  Total SG&amp;A                        $36,394     55%      $32,240     58%
                                        =======             =========

The total SG&amp;A is presented as a percentage of consolidated revenue.

        SG&amp;A expense increased $4.2 million,  or 13%, to $36.4 million for 2003,
as compared to $32.2 million for 2002.  The increase was primarily  attributable
to an increased  provision for doubtful  accounts of $1.7 million as a result of
our  recording of a provision of $2.2 million in the fourth  quarter of 2003 due
principally  to our cash  collection  program.  In  addition,  our  salaries and
benefits expenses increased $1.4 million, primarily due to increased staffing to
support our  operations,  annual merit  increases  for our staff and  continuing
increases to health care costs, however these increases were partially offset by
lower  compensation  expense related to stock options of $0.7 million in 2003 as
compared to $2.5 million in 2002. Our  professional  fees increased $0.5 million
in 2003 as compared to 2002,  due  primarily  to non-audit  services  related to
initial Sarbanes-Oxley  compliance,  in addition to other legal and professional
services.  Occupancy and related expenses increased $0.3 million,  primarily due
to the  Renaissance  acquisition.  General  and  other  expense  increased  $0.8
million,  which included increased general insurance expense of $0.4 million and
a variety of other items aggregating $0.4 million, net. As a percentage of total
revenue,  SG&amp;A expense  decreased to 55% in 2003 as compared to 58% in 2002,  as
the increase in consolidated revenue outpaced the increase in SG&amp;A expense.

R&amp;D

        R&amp;D expense  decreased $0.1 million to $1.4 million for 2003 as compared
to $1.5  million  for 2002.  As a  percentage  of total  revenue,  research  and
development  expense  decreased to 2% for 2003 from 3% for the 2002,  due to the
increase in revenue.

                                       56

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

EQUITY IN LOSS OF UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES

        Effective  February 1, 2002,  we  exercised  the Option to increase  our
ownership  interest  in  NYFIX  Millennium,  from  50% to 80% and at  that  date
consolidated NYFIX Millennium's financial statements.  NYFIX Millennium incurred
operating  losses  of $1.4  million  for the  month of  January  2002,  which we
recognized under the equity method.

        Our equity interest in our other previously  unconsolidated  affiliates,
Renaissance  (which we acquired in July 2003) and EuroLink (which we acquired in
March 2004),  increased $0.2 million to $0.8 million for 2003, from $0.6 million
for 2002, due primarily to our equity in the losses  incurred by these entities.
We  recognized  our equity in the losses of  EuroLink  of $0.4  million in 2003,
compared  to losses of $0.5  million in 2002.  We  recognized  our equity in the
losses of Renaissance through June 30, 2003 of $0.4 million. We made our initial
investment in  Renaissance  in the fourth  quarter of 2002,  and  recognized our
equity  in its  losses  of  $0.1  million  in  that  period.  We  accounted  for
Renaissance by the equity method through June 30, 2003.  Effective July 1, 2003,
we acquired the remaining 82% of the membership units in Renaissance that we did
not already own, and  accordingly,  we consolidated the results of operations of
Renaissance as of that date. Effective March 29, 2004, we acquired the remaining
60% of  EuroLink  that we did  not  already  own,  and  consolidated  EuroLink's
operating results as of that date.

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION

        Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $0.6 million, or 19%, to
$2.7  million for 2003,  from $3.3  million for 2002,  due  primarily to reduced
depreciation expense due to reduced levels of leased equipment.  As a percentage
of total revenue, depreciation and amortization expense decreased to 4% for 2003
from 6% for 2002. The decrease as a percentage of total revenue was attributable
to a combination of reduced  depreciation and amortization expense and increased
revenue.

LOSS FROM OPERATIONS

        Loss from  operations  decreased $1.6 million,  or 14%, to $10.0 million
for 2003,  from $11.6 million for 2002.  The increased loss was primarily due to
higher cost of revenue and operating  expense  offset by the increase in revenue
as described above. As a percentage of total revenue, loss from operations was a
deficit of 15% in 2003 and 21% in 2002.

INTEREST EXPENSE AND INVESTMENT INCOME

        Investment  income remained  constant at $0.6 million for 2003 and 2002.
This  was  principally  due  to  lower  interest  income  due to  lower  average
investment  balances and lower yields,  which was offset by additional  gains on
sales of short-term  investments.  Interest expense  decreased $0.1 million,  or
50%, to $0.2 million for 2003,  from $0.3 million for 2002,  principally  due to
reduced interest on capital lease obligations as the principal  balances on such
leases declined.  We also incurred a nominal amount of interest for notes issued
in connection with our Renaissance acquisition.

INCOME TAXES

        We recorded an income tax benefit of $4.6 million for 2003,  compared to
an income tax benefit of $4.3  million for 2002.  The income tax benefit in 2003
was  attributable  to a tax benefit on our pre-tax  loss of $9.5 million and tax
benefits relating to certain Federal and state R&amp;D tax credits  aggregating $0.6
million.  Our  effective  tax benefit  rate of 48% in 2003  exceeded the Federal
statutory rate primarily due to the effect of state and Federal tax benefits and
research  and  development  tax  credits.  The  income  tax  benefit in 2002 was
attributable  to a tax benefit on our pre-tax  loss and  recognition  of certain
research and  development  tax credits,  aggregating  $0.9  million,  from prior

                                       57

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

years.  We will  receive no income tax  benefit  for the equity in loss of NYFIX
Millennium  of $1.4  million in 2002 as the  operating  loss is allocated to the
Initial  Partners and New Partners for income tax  purposes.  Our  effective tax
benefit rate of 38% for 2002 exceeded the Federal  statutory  rate primarily due
to the impact of our research and development tax credits of 8% and state income
taxes of 4%.  This  benefit  was  offset by the  impact of the equity in loss of
NYFIX Millennium of 6%.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

        Historically,  a significant  source of our funding has been the sale of
equity  securities.  Between  1997 and 1999 we raised a total of $9.5 million in
net proceeds through several private  placements where we issued an aggregate of
3,431,000  shares of our common stock. In 2001, we raised $57.3 million,  net of
expenses, from a follow-on public offering of three million shares of our common
stock. We used a portion of the net proceeds from the follow-on  public offering
to  repurchase  1.3 million  shares of our common stock at an aggregate  cost of
$19.1 million.  We also have historically  received funding from the exercise of
stock options,  which  aggregated $1.6 million from 2002 through 2004. We funded
our  acquisitions  of  Javelin,  NYFIX  Millennium,   Renaissance  and  EuroLink
primarily  through  the  issuance of our common  stock and notes  payable in our
stock or cash, at our option. Please see Item 1. Business - Acquisitions.

        Another  significant  source of funding  for us is cash  generated  from
operations, which was $7.1 million, $15.4 million and $3.7 million in 2004, 2003
and 2002, respectively,  aggregating $26.2 million.  Excluding changes in assets
and  liabilities,  net of  business  acquisitions,  which  tend to be subject to
short-term fluctuations, the comparable amount of cash generated from operations
was $4.8 million, $9.5 million and $7.1 million, respectively, aggregating $21.4
million.  Our primary  source of cash from  operations is from revenue  received
from our customers.  Our primary uses of cash for operations include data center
expenses,  including its operations and  telecommunication  costs, and operating
expenses, including salaries and benefits,  marketing, travel and entertainment,
office  rent  and  related  occupancy,  and  other  general  and  administrative
expenses.

        We have invested  $6.7  million,  $5.3 million and $4.6 million in 2004,
2003 and 2002,  respectively,  aggregating  $16.6  million,  in our data  center
infrastructure  and other property and equipment to keep current with technology
trends. We expect to invest at a similar level in 2005 as compared to 2004.

        We have capitalized product  enhancements of $6.5 million,  $5.3 million
and $2.8  million in 2004,  2003 and 2002,  respectively,  to keep our  products
competitive.  The increase in capitalized  product enhancement costs in the last
two years was  primarily  attributable  to our Javelin and  Renaissance  product
lines.  We have many product  enhancements  in  development,  which we expect to
release into  production  during 2005. We expect to capitalize a similar  amount
for product enhancements in 2005 as compared to 2004.

        We  acquired  net cash of $1.2  million in 2004 and have  invested  $2.5
million,  $12.1  million  and  $17.2  million  of cash in 2003,  2002 and  2001,
respectively,  aggregating  $30.6  million,  for our  acquisitions  of  Javelin,
Renaissance, NYFIX Millennium, NYFIX Transaction Services and EuroLink. Included
in our 2004 amount was net  proceeds of $1.3  million  received  primarily  as a
return  of funds  held in  escrow  pursuant  to a  settlement  agreement  with a
representative  of the former  shareholders  of Javelin.  In connection with our
Renaissance  acquisition  we  issued  outstanding  notes  payable  over the next
several years, aggregating $3.0 million,  payable, at our option, in cash or our
common stock. On April 7, 2004,  pursuant to notice from certain payees after we
defaulted on the notes,  we issued shares of our common stock as payment in full
of $2.0  million in  principal  amount of such notes.  On July 2, 2004 we issued
shares of our common  stock in  payment of $0.2  million of such notes that came
due on July 1, 2004. We intend to pay the remaining  debt with our common stock,

                                       58

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

thus not  requiring  cash.  On March 29, 2004,  we acquired the remaining 60% of
EuroLink's  common  stock that we did not already  own. We paid for the EuroLink
transaction  with $24,000 in cash and one-year  promissory  notes payable in our
common stock or cash, at our option, valued in the aggregate at $0.5 million. We
integrated EuroLink with NYFIX  International.  We have no current plans for any
other  acquisitions;  we plan to continue to focus on the synergies arising from
our previous acquisitions.

        Our long-term  capital needs depend on numerous  factors,  including the
rate at which we obtain new customers  and expand our staff and  infrastructure,
as needed, to accommodate such growth, and the rate at which we choose to invest
in new  technologies  to modify our NYFIX  Network and  infrastructure.  We have
ongoing needs for capital,  including working capital for operations and capital
expenditures to maintain and expand our operations.

        At December 31, 2004, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash
equivalents  and  short-term  investments  in the aggregate of $26.9 million and
accounts  receivable  of $13.4  million.  At December 31, 2004,  we had accounts
payable and accrued expenses aggregating $18.2 million. We do not expect to make
any  significant  income  tax  payments  due to  available  net  operating  loss
carryforwards and research and development tax credits.

        NYFIX Clearing,  NYFIX  Transaction  Services and NYFIX  Millennium,  as
registered  broker-dealers,  are subject to the minimum net capital requirements
of the NASD. NYFIX International,  as an FSA-registered  broker-dealer,  is also
subject to minimum net capital requirements.  During the year ended December 31,
2003,  we funded  $10.8  million to NYFIX  Clearing to enable it to maintain its
minimum  excess net capital  requirement  of $10.0 million as a condition of its
approval by the DTCC.  During the year ended  December 31, 2004,  we provided an
aggregate   additional   capital  of  $1.3   million  in  the  form  of  capital
contributions and subordinated loans to enable our US broker-dealer subsidiaries
to individually  and  collectively  exceed their net capital  requirements,  and
another $1.3 million to NYFIX International in the form of capital contributions
as a condition  of NYFIX  International's  approval by the FSA. At December  31,
2004, our broker-dealer subsidiaries had aggregate net capital of $12.7 million,
which   exceeded  the   aggregate   minimum  and  minimum   excess  net  capital
requirements,  collectively  by $1.7  million.  At December 31, 2004,  we had an
aggregate  of $13.9  million  of our  consolidated  cash,  cash-equivalents  and
short-term  investments  committed to maintain our  broker-dealer  subsidiaries'
collective minimum and minimum excess net capital requirements of $11.0 million.
In the  first  quarter  of 2005,  we  provided  our  broker-dealer  subsidiaries
aggregate  additional  capital of $2.8 million in the form of additional capital
contributions. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries may need us to fund or commit more
of our consolidated  cash,  cash-equivalents  and short-term  investments in the
future to maintain their individual  minimum and, in the case of NYFIX Clearing,
its  minimum  excess  net  capital   requirements.   If  any  or  all  of  these
broker-dealer  subsidiaries  were to fall below their minimum or minimum  excess
net  capital  requirements,  their  operations  may  be  restricted  by  certain
regulatory agencies.

        As a result of the reduced availability of cash due to our broker-dealer
net capital  requirements,  as  described  above,  and our  continued  operating
losses, on December 30, 2004, we issued a $7.5 million  Convertible Note with an
interest  rate  of 5% due in  December  2009  (the  "Note")  through  a  private
placement to the Lender.  The interest on the Note is payable in cash or, at our
option as  described  below,  by the  issuance  of shares of our  common  stock,
semi-annually in arrears on June 30 and December 30 of each year, beginning June
30, 2005.

        The Note is  subordinated  to all of our  existing  and  future  secured
indebtedness.  The Lender has certain  rights to require  that we  register  the
common stock  issuable,  upon conversion of the Note or for payment of interest,
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Such registration  statement is to
be effective by September  30, 2005 and if it is not, we will be required to pay
additional  interest,  in cash, for each month the effectiveness is delayed. The

                                       59

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

additional interest varies by month and has an aggregate cap of $500,000 for the
duration  of the  Note.  The  entire  outstanding  principal  amount of the Note
together  with all  accrued but unpaid  interest is due in cash on December  30,
2009; and except under certain conditions,  we have no right of early prepayment
on the Note.

        At the option of the  Lender,  the Note is  convertible  into our common
stock at $6.94 per common share, which was a 20% premium over the average of our
common stock  closing  price for the five trading days  preceeding  December 30,
2004. At our option,  the Note is convertible into our common stock according to
a formula  based on the  market  price of our stock  during the term of the Note
which  requires  among other  things for our common  stock to exceed 150% of the
price at which the Lender can convert the Note (or $10.41 per common share).

        If we issue  shares of our common  stock to convert  the Note or to make
interest  payments,  we are  required  to pay a 5%  premium  based on an average
closing  price of our common stock for the previous ten days.  If we convert the
Note prior to December 30, 2007, we are required to pay an additional make-whole
interest payment in either cash or our common stock at our discretion.

        As a result of the restatement of our financial  statements for the year
ended  December  31,  2003,  we were in breach of  certain  representations  and
warranties  relating to those financial  statements that constituted an event of
default under the Note. On June 24, 2005,  the Lender waived all defaults  under
the Note and  extended  the  requirement  to have a  registration  statement  be
effective  for the shares of our  common  stock that may be issued as payment of
principal or interest  under the Note to March 31, 2006. In exchange,  we agreed
to reduce the price at which the lender can convert  the Note into common  stock
from $6.94 per share, as described  above,  to $5.75 per share,  which was a 16%
premium over the average of our common stock  closing price for the five trading
days preceeding June 24, 2005. Accordingly,  our option to convert the Note into
our common  stock is based on the market  price of our stock  during the term of
the Note which requires,  among other things, our common stock to exceed 150% of
the price (or $8.63 per common share on a revised basis) at which the Lender can
convert the Note.

        In addition,  at the option of the Lender, we may issue to the Lender up
to an additional $2.5 million note under terms substantially similar to those of
the Note. The Lender requested,  and we agreed to extend the termination date of
the option to issue the  additional  $2.5  million  note from March 30,  2005 to
until ten days after the date we file this 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

        We believe that our cash and short-term  investments of $26.9 million at
December  31,  2004,  together  with  anticipated  cash  to  be  generated  from
operations,  will be sufficient  to support our capital and operating  needs and
the net capital  requirements of our  broker-dealer  operations for at least the
next twelve months.

        The following  summarizes our material commitments at December 31, 2004,
and the effect such  obligations  are expected to have on our liquidity and cash
flows in future periods:

                                       60

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

                                                    PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD
                                          Less than                               More than
  Contractual Obligations      Total       1 year      1-3 Years      3-5 Years    5 Years
                              -------     -------    ------------     ---------   ---------
                                                   (in thousands)
Long-term debt                $ 9,038     $ 1,102     $   436          $ 7,500     $  --
Capital lease obligations       1,406         510         896             --          --
Operating leases               26,336       4,875       7,228            5,211       9,022
Purchase obligations           10,103       4,734       4,859              510        --
                              -------     -------     -------          -------     -------
    Total                     $46,883     $11,221     $13,419          $13,221     $ 9,022
                              =======     =======     =======          =======     =======

        Long-term  debt  consists  of  payments on  promissory  notes  issued in
connection with the Renaissance and EuroLink acquisitions and the Note described
above. As described  earlier,  under the terms of the notes issued, we may elect
to make the note payments in shares of our common stock  instead of cash,  which
would reduce the amounts shown above and lessen the effect on liquidity and cash
flows.  Purchase  obligations  include minimum  purchase  obligations to certain
telecommunication  providers  in exchange for pricing  discounts  and a software
licensing arrangement with a minimum licensing fee.

WORKING CAPITAL

        At  December  31,  2004,  we had  working  capital  of $20.8  million as
compared to $22.7 million at December 31, 2003.  Working capital at December 31,
2004 also  included the net proceeds  from the issuance of the $7.5 million Note
on December 30, 2004. The decrease in working capital was principally due to the
cash used to acquire property, equipment and leasehold improvements, enhance our
products,  fund pre-acquisition working capital advances to EuroLink and current
liabilities in conjunction  with the  restructuring  charge.  These amounts were
partially offset by cash flows provided by operating  activities,  cash acquired
from net borrowings and net cash acquired from the Javelin escrow settlement.

CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES

        Net cash provided by operating  activities in 2004 was $7.1 million,  as
our net loss of $32.7 million, adjusted for non-cash items, such as depreciation
and  amortization,  deferred income taxes,  provision for doubtful  accounts and
equity in loss of  unconsolidated  affiliates,  provided $4.7  million.  Working
capital and other assets and liabilities increased $2.4 million due to increased
accounts payable and other liabilities of $6.1 million, deferred revenue of $0.3
million and net securities borrowed of $0.2 million.  These items were partially
offset by an increase in accounts  receivable of $3.8 million and an increase in
prepaid  expenses  and  other  assets  of $0.4  million.  In 2005,  we expect to
continue to generate positive cash flows from operating activities.

        Net cash provided by operating  activities in 2003 was $15.4 million, as
our net loss of $4.9 million, adjusted for non-cash items, such as depreciation,
amortization, deferred taxes, provision for doubtful accounts and equity in loss
of unconsolidated  affiliates,  provided $8.0 million. Working capital and other
assets and  liabilities  increased  $7.4  million  due to a decrease in accounts
receivable  of $3.4  million  and an  increase  in  accounts  payable  and other
liabilities of $1.7 million.

CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES

        Net cash used in investing  activities in 2004 was $13.0  million.  This
amount consisted  primarily of capital  expenditures,  primarily for data center
equipment  and  software,  of $6.7 million,  product  enhancement  costs of $6.5
million,  net purchases of short-term  investments of $1.0 million and loans and
advances to EuroLink of $0.2  million.  These amounts were  partially  offset by

                                       61

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

cash acquired from  acquisitions  of $1.4 million,  which  included cash of $1.3
million  received  primarily  as a return of funds held in escrow  pursuant to a
settlement  agreement  with a  representative  of  the  former  shareholders  of
Javelin. In 2005, we expect to invest a similarly  proportionate  amount of cash
for  capital  expenditures  for  property  and  equipment  as  well  as  product
enhancement costs.

        Net cash used in investing  activities  in 2003 was $5.8  million.  This
consisted  primarily  of  capital   expenditures  for  property  and  equipment,
principally  for data center  equipment and software,  of $5.3 million,  product
enhancement  costs of $5.3  million  and loans and  advances  to  unconsolidated
affiliates of $2.4 million. These amounts were partially offset by proceeds from
the net sales of short-term investments of $7.3 million.

CASH PROVIDED BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES

        Net cash  provided  by  financing  activities  in 2004 was $7.4  million
consisting  of net  proceeds  from  borrowings  of $7.6  million  (of which $7.2
million in net proceeds  was received  from the issuance of the Note on December
30,  2004) and  proceeds  of $0.4  million  from the  issuance  of common  stock
resulting from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by payments under
capital lease  obligations of $0.6 million.  In 2005, we expect to repay debt of
$0.4 million and capital lease obligations of $0.6 million.  We may elect to pay
our  promissory  note  obligations  with  shares of our common  stock,  thus not
requiring cash.

        Net cash  provided by  financing  activities  in 2003 was $0.2  million,
consisting primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock resulting
from the exercise of stock  options by employees of $0.8 million and  repayments
of notes receivable issued for common stock of $0.5 million, partially offset by
payments under capital lease obligations of $1.1 million. We had nominal capital
lease obligations remaining as of December 31, 2003.

SEASONALITY AND INFLATION

        We believe that our operations have not been  significantly  affected by
seasonality or inflation.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

        We have no  material  off-balance  sheet  arrangements  other  than,  as
described  above,  operating  leases that are  discussed  in Note 8 and purchase
obligations  that  are  discussed  in  Note  9  to  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

        As  previously   mentioned  in  "Application   of  Critical   Accounting
Policies",  in  December  2004,  the FASB issued  SFAS No.  123(R),  SHARE-BASED
PAYMENT. SFAS No. 123(R) is a revision of SFAS No. 123 and supersedes APB No. 25
and its related implementation  guidance.  SFAS 123(R) establishes standards for
the  accounting  for  transactions  in which an entity  exchanges its equity for
goods or services.  It also  addresses  transactions  in which an entity  incurs
liabilities  in exchange for goods or services  that are based on the fair value
of the  entity's  equity  instruments  or that may be settled by the issuance of
those  equity  instruments.  SFAS 123(R)  focuses  primarily on  accounting  for
transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in share-based payment
transactions.  SFAS 123(R)  allows  entities  to apply a modified  retrospective
application  to periods  before the  required  effective  date.  SFAS  123(R) is
effective for public  entities,  such as us, that do not file as small  business
issuers as of the  beginning  of the first annual  reporting  period that begins
after June 15,  2005,  or in our case  January 1, 2006.  We are  evaluating  the
impact  of  SFAS  No.  123(R),  which  could  have  a  material  impact  on  our
consolidated financial statements.

                                       62

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

        In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, EXCHANGES OF NONMONETARY
ASSETS ("SFAS No. 153").  SFAS No. 153 addresses the measurement of exchanges of
nonmonetary  assets.  SFAS 153  eliminates  the  exception  from the fair  value
measurement  for  nonmonetary  exchanges of similar  product assets in paragraph
21(b) of APB  Opinion  No. 29,  ACCOUNTING  FOR  NONMONETARY  TRANSACTIONS,  and
replaces  it  with an  exception  for  exchanges  that  do not  have  commercial
substance.  SFAS  153  specifies  that a  nonmonetary  exchange  has  commercial
substance  if the  future  cash  flows of the  entity  are  expected  to  change
significantly as a result of the exchange. SFAS 153 is effective for nonmonetary
asset  exchanges  occurring in fiscal periods  beginning after June 15, 2005. We
have not  completed  our  analysis of the impact of SFAS 153, but as we have not
been involved in significant nonmonetary exchanges in the past, we do not expect
that  the  provisions  of SFAS  No.  153  will  have a  material  impact  on our
consolidated financial statements.

        In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  INVENTORY  COSTS ("SFAS
No. 151").  SFAS No. 151 amends  Accounting  Research  Bulleting ("ARB") No. 43,
INVENTORY  PRICING,  to clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility  expense,
freight, handling costs, and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as
current-period  charges.  SFAS  151  also  requires  that  allocation  of  fixed
production  overheads to the cost of conversion be based on the normal  capacity
of the production facilities. SFAS 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred
during  fiscal years  beginning  after June 15, 2005.  We have not completed our
analysis of the impact of SFAS 151, but as inventory is not a material component
of our consolidated  financial statements,  we do not expect that the provisions
of SFAS No.  151 will  have a  material  impact  on our  consolidated  financial
statements.

RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS

WE ARE A DEFENDANT IN A  CLASS-ACTION  COMPLAINT  RELATED TO OUR  INVESTMENT  IN
NYFIX MILLENNIUM.

         On May 13, 2004, an action entitled FULLER &amp; THALER ASSET MANAGEMENT V.
NYFIX,  INC.,  ET AL.  was filed in the  United  States  District  Court for the
District of  Connecticut.  The  complaint  named us, our  Chairman  and CEO, our
former CFO,  our current CFO and certain of our  directors  as  defendants.  The
complaint was filed as a purported class action claim on behalf of all buyers of
our stock  between  March 30, 2000 and March 30,  2004 and seeks an  unspecified
amount of damages.  The complaint alleged violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a)
of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934,  based on the issuance of a series of
allegedly  false  and  misleading   financial   statements  and  press  releases
concerning,  among other things, our investment in NYFIX Millennium. On July 20,
2004, the court appointed three different  plaintiffs to be the lead plaintiffs,
as Fuller &amp; Thaler Asset Management withdrew as the named plaintiff.  The action
became styled  JOHNSON,  ET AL. V. NYFIX,  INC., ET AL. On August 19, 2004,  the
newly named  plaintiffs  filed a first  amended  class action  complaint,  which
added,  among other things,  allegations  of violations of Sections 11 and 15 of
the  Securities  Act  of  1933,  as  amended.  The  new  allegations  are  based
fundamentally on the same allegations as the plaintiffs asserted in the original
complaint.  The defendants have filed a motion to dismiss the amended  complaint
with  prejudice.  Although it is not  possible  to forecast  the outcome of this
matter,  we intend to  vigorously  defend  against the complaint but can give no
assurance that the outcome will not have a material impact on us.

WE ARE THE SUBJECT OF TWO INQUIRIES BY THE SEC.

        In connection with our restatement of our 1999 through 2002 consolidated
financial  statements  in May  2004,  the  Division  of  Enforcement  of the SEC
informed us by letter dated July 14, 2004,  that it was  conducting  an informal
inquiry.  On January  25,  2005,  we filed a current  report on Form 8-K,  which
indicated that we believed that the matter was a formal inquiry. By letter dated
October 28, 2004, the Division of Enforcement of the SEC informed us that it was
conducting  a second  informal  inquiry,  which  related  to our  stock  options
granted.  On February 25,  2005,  we filed a current  report on Form 8-K,  which
indicated  that we  believed  that  the  matter  was a  formal  inquiry.  We are
cooperating with the SEC with respect to both matters.  We are unable to predict

                                       63

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

the outcome of either  matter at this time and can give no  assurances  that the
outcome of either or both matters will not have a material impact on us.

SOME OF OUR  SUBSIDIARIES  HAVE NOT BEEN  PROFITABLE AND THEREFORE WE MAY NOT BE
PROFITABLE IN THE FUTURE.

        In December 2001, we acquired an inactive  broker-dealer  and renamed it
NYFIX  Transaction  Services,   Inc.  In  May  2002,  the  NASD  approved  NYFIX
Transaction  Services'  membership  application and it first started  generating
revenues as of July 1, 2002. Through its first three years of operations,  NYFIX
Transaction  Services  incurred a net loss of $6.5 million and required  capital
contributions of $8.1 million.  Although we expect NYFIX Transaction Services to
start to generate  positive cash flows during 2005, we can provide no assurances
that it will do so.  Accordingly,  NYFIX  Transaction  Services  may  need us to
continue to provide  funding to maintain  its minimum net capital  requirements,
thus impacting our availability of cash.

        Effective as of February 1, 2002, we increased our ownership interest in
NYFIX  Millennium from 50% to 80%. NYFIX Millennium was formed in September 1999
and since that time has incurred aggregate net operating losses of $41.8 million
through  December 31,  2004.  Although we expect  NYFIX  Millennium  to generate
positive  cash flows  during  2005,  we can provide no  assurances  that it will
continue to do so. Accordingly,  NYFIX Millennium may need us to provide funding
to maintain its net capital  requirements,  thus impacting our  availability  of
cash.

        Effective as of March 31, 2002, we acquired  Javelin.  Javelin  incurred
net losses of $1.8 million, $6.7 million and $2.0 million for the years 2000 and
2001 and the three months ended March 31, 2002,  respectively.  Although Javelin
results are not reported separately, Javelin continued to incur net losses until
the fourth  quarter of 2002.  We believe  that our  synergies  with Javelin will
enhance our overall operating results,  but there is no assurance that they will
do so. Our strategy to apply our subscription-based model to Javelin's products,
where  feasible,   may  not  be  successful.   Javelin's   business  is  heavily
concentrated   towards  capital  sales,   which  are  very   unpredictable   and
inconsistent.  Transitioning Javelin to more of a subscription-based model could
have an adverse impact on our working capital.

        Effective  as of  July  1,  2003,  we  acquired  the  remaining  82%  of
Renaissance  that we did not  previously  own.  Since its inception in September
2002,  Renaissance incurred net losses of $1.6 million for the four months ended
December 31, 2002 and $2.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2003. After
the  acquisition  was  completed,   we  integrated  the  Renaissance  operation,
including  sales  and  support  of its  product,  into our  Technology  Services
Segment.  We believe that our synergies with Renaissance and the ability to sell
our products into the OTC market will enhance our overall operating results, but
there is no assurance that it will do so.

        In 2003,  we  formed  NYFIX  Clearing,  which  commenced  operations  in
November 2003 following  approval by the DTCC to operate as a clearing firm. For
the year ended  December 31, 2004,  NYFIX  Clearing  reported net income of $0.8
million and required no incremental capital  contributions during 2004. To date,
the only capital  contribution  required was $10.8 million during 2003. Although
we expect  cost  savings  from using  NYFIX  Clearing  to clear our  transaction
business  trades,  NYFIX Clearing may need us to continue to provide  funding to
maintain its minimum and excess minimum net capital requirements, thus impacting
our availability of cash.

        In 2004, we formed NYFIX International,  Ltd, which commenced operations
in September 2004 following  approval by the FSA.  Through  December 2004, NYFIX
International  incurred  a net loss of $0.6  million  and  required  an  initial
capital contribution of $1.3 million.  Although we expect NYFIX International to
start to generate  positive cash flows during 2005, we can provide no assurances
that it will  continue  to do so. In the first  quarter of 2005,  we provided to
NYFIX  International an additional $0.8 million of cash in the form of a capital
contribution.  Accordingly,  NYFIX  International  may  need us to  continue  to
provide funding to maintain its minimum net capital requirements, thus impacting
our availability of cash.

                                       64

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

        If we are not profitable in 2005 or beyond, we may be required to record
an impairment  charge  relating to our  goodwill.  If the  impairment  charge is
sufficiently large, the impact on our consolidated financial statements could be
material.

A NUMBER OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES  HAVE A LIMITED OPERATING  HISTORY,  WHICH MAKES IT
DIFFICULT TO EVALUATE THEIR PROSPECTS.  THEIR FUTURE  FINANCIAL  PERFORMANCE MAY
DISAPPOINT SECURITIES ANALYSTS OR INVESTORS AND RESULT IN A DECLINE IN OUR STOCK
PRICE.

        Renaissance was formed in September  2002.  NYFIX  International,  NYFIX
Clearing, NYFIX Millennium and Javelin were formed in March 2004, February 2003,
September  1999 and  November  1997,  respectively.  Also,  we  purchased  NYFIX
Transaction  Services  in  December  2001.  Because of their  limited  operating
history, these entities have limited financial data that can be used to evaluate
their businesses. Consideration must be given to their prospects in light of the
risks, expenses, delays, problems and difficulties frequently encountered in the
establishment  of a new business in an emerging and rapidly  evolving  industry.
Renaissance,  NYFIX Clearing,  NYFIX  Millennium,  Javelin and NYFIX Transaction
Services may not be successful in their businesses,  and profitability may never
be attained or sustained.

A  SIGNIFICANT  POWER  OR  TELECOMMUNICATIONS  FAILURE  COULD  CAUSE  US AND OUR
CUSTOMERS TO LOSE REVENUE AND SUBJECT US TO LIABILITY FOR CUSTOMER LOSSES.

        Our  services  depend on our  ability to store,  retrieve,  process  and
manage  significant  databases and to  electronically  receive and process trade
orders. Our systems and data centers could fail due to power failures, caused by
a  variety  of  factors,  or  outages,  caused  by  high  demand  placed  on the
infrastructures  of the  utilities we use in New York City and  elsewhere in the
Northeast portion of the US. Due to the complexity of these electrical  systems,
errors or failures could occur which render an entire site to be unusable.

        We  constantly  monitor  system loads and  performances  and upgrade our
systems  to the  extent we  determine  to be  appropriate  to  handle  estimated
increases  in  power  consumption.  However,  we may not be  able to  accurately
predict future  demand.  To mitigate the impact of power  failures,  we maintain
critical  data center  facilities  at two separate  locations  in the  Northeast
portion of the US. Although these data centers are serviced by the same utility,
they are serviced via different sub-stations.  In the event of a power outage at
any of our data  centers,  we use  uninterruptible  power  supplies  ("UPS")  to
provide limited battery backup for critical systems.  We also use diesel-powered
generators to backup the UPSs.

        In the event of loss of power or  telecommunications  services at either
of these locations,  we believe there are sufficient  backup facilities in place
to give us  reasonable  time to access,  or switch over to, our  redundant  data
center.  It is  possible  that  multiple  telecommunications  vendors  could  be
impacted so severely that the  multi-vendor  and  multi-site  strategy would not
insure communications services to our customers.

        Since it is  fairly  common  for  multiple  carriers  to share  the same
physical   infrastructure   such  as  Central   Offices,   telephone  poles  and
below-ground  conduit,  instances  like  major  cable cuts or  regional  natural
disasters could adversely impact our customers and us.

WE  RELY  ON  MULTIPLE   TELECOMMUNICATIONS  CARRIERS  FOR  DATA  DELIVERY.  ANY
DISRUPTIONS  TO THESE  SERVICES  COULD  HAVE A  MATERIAL  ADVERSE  EFFECT ON OUR
BUSINESS.

        We utilize  network  services  from five  major  carriers,  directly  or
indirectly through a consolidator:  AT&amp;T, Qwest, Sprint, MCI, Verizon,  Colt and
SingTel. Customers are given the choice of using one or more network carriers to

                                       65

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

provide  network  services  to their  location.  A majority  of NYFIX  customers
utilize a dual carrier solution.

        Our  relationship  with  each of  these  carriers  is  that of a  vendor
providing  us  services.  We  currently  do not  provide  any  services to these
carriers.  The contracts  with these carriers have  commitment  terms that range
from two to five years.  We receive  discounts  based on certain term and volume
commitments.  Currently, where applicable, we are exceeding any required monthly
minimum billing amounts.

        Our use of five major carriers has multiple benefits, including:

        o    diversity  of  telecommunication  infrastructure  between the major
             carriers;

        o    a competitive  environment  to help insure  aggressive  pricing for
             network services; and

        o    the  ability to  completely  migrate  circuits  from one carrier to
             another  due to  non-competitive  pricing  or a  carrier  no longer
             providing adequate services.

        If a major  carrier  were to  shut  down  its  network  without  advance
warning,  we believe it would take at least 45 days to replace  the  circuits of
that  vendor  with those of  another  vendor.  If we moved  from one  carrier to
another,  we would  incur  substantial  expenses  because of the need to use two
carriers for some period of time.  Exclusivity  agreements  between carriers and
connecting  points on the network could also impact us. For example,  MCI is the
sole provider of network services for Nasdaq. If MCI discontinued operations, we
would incur costs transitioning to a new Nasdaq network service provider.

        We believe  the time  needed to  transfer  circuits  from one carrier to
another would be approximately four to six weeks. During the transfer,  we would
incur  overlapping  circuit  charges  with each  carrier for a minimum of thirty
days. We would need to have the new circuits in place before requesting that the
original  circuits be  disconnected,  and we would have to provide 30 days prior
notice for the circuits to be disconnected.  Therefore,  the minimum cost for us
to move our business  from one carrier to another would be at least one month of
charges from the former carrier.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO HUMAN ERROR IN OUR OPERATIONS,  WHICH COULD CAUSE A DISRUPTION
IN OUR SERVICE TO OUR CUSTOMERS AND CORRUPT OUR DATA.

        Our  services  depend  on our  operations  staff to  manage  significant
databases,  systems, applications and processes that receive and process orders.
An outage of our systems and service  could happen as a result of human error in
our operational  procedures.  We believe we have  experienced  personnel whom we
regularly send for refresher training to hone their skills, we maintain database
backups and roll back procedures in case a human error is made and we have other
policies,  processes and procedures in place that collectively help us to reduce
the  possibility  and  consequences  of human  error.  However we can provide no
assurance  that  human  error  will not cause a  significant  disruption  to our
systems or service.

ANY  INFILTRATION OF HARMFUL  VIRUSES INTO OUR  INFORMATION  SYSTEMS OR NETWORKS
COULD CAUSE US TO LOSE  REVENUES AND  CUSTOMERS  AND SUBJECT US TO LIABILITY FOR
CUSTOMER LOSSES.

        Potential sources of a virus that could affect us include connections to
customer  systems,  emails  received  by us or  connectivity  to  the  Internet.
Although to date, we have not had any incidence of a virus fully penetrating our
protective layers and infiltrating our production systems, we continue to review
our  protective  layers and  safeguards  as our systems are  susceptible  to the
growing number of potential viruses.

WE RELY, IN PART,  ON OTHERS TO SUPPLY THE  MATERIALS  AND SUPPLIES,  UNDERLYING
SOFTWARE AND SYSTEMS WE USE TO PROVIDE OUR SERVICES.  IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN
THIRD PARTY SUPPORT AND DELIVERY ON A TIMELY AND RELIABLE BASIS,  OUR ABILITY TO
PERFORM  SERVICES  COULD BE  HINDERED  AND THE  RELATIONSHIPS  WE HAVE  WITH OUR
CUSTOMERS COULD BE HARMED.

                                       66

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

        Our  manufactured  products are based on standard PC components  readily
available  in  the  consumer  market  place.  All  electronic,  computer-related
components  that  we  use in our  products  are  not  manufacturer  or  supplier
specific.  We can substitute  components  from a diverse group of  manufacturers
with no assembly or delivery delays to our customers.

        However, our manufactured products contain several custom parts specific
to our design.  These parts are limited to sheet metal  enclosures  and internal
wiring.  We own the  designs  for  these  components  and can  source  them from
multiple  vendors in our  immediate  area or  throughout  the US.  Currently  we
maintain  relationships  with a minimum of two alternate vendors for cabling and
sheet metal,  either of which can deliver  components  within standard  delivery
cycles.  For both of these  components,  we use vendors  such as CTC,  Advantage
Sheet Metal and Interface  Technology.  Although we maintain  relationships with
numerous vendors for our manufactured products, if we are unable to obtain third
party  delivery  and  support on a timely and  reliable  basis,  our  ability to
provide our product and services could be hindered.

        We rely on a number of third parties to supply software and systems,  as
well as equipment and related maintenance.  Our systems are built using a number
of commonly used  technologies.  For example,  we use systems from IBM, HP, EMC,
Sun Micro  Systems,  Oracle,  Sybase,  Veritas and  Microsoft.  Our products are
subject to potential  defects in these third party  components.  Although we (as
well as the individual  vendors)  exercise  strict testing and  verification  of
systems and software, defects can cause disruptions of customer service. We have
invested in various test systems to make sure supplier's components work as well
as our developed software.

        Because we depend on third parties to supply us with underlying software
and systems on a reliable,  timely basis,  we maintain  service and  maintenance
agreements with all of our main vendors.  We have standard service agreements at
different  levels,  depending  on how  critical  the  vendor's  system is to the
operation of our business. For most systems, we have a high level of redundancy,
which gives us less time  critical  dependency on a particular  vendor.  We have
warranty or maintenance agreements with all above-mentioned  vendors. Because of
the diversity in vendors, there is no dependence on a single vendor. However, if
we are  unable to obtain  third  party  support  and  delivery  on a timely  and
reliable  basis,  our  ability to perform  services  could be  hindered  and the
relationships we have with our customers could be harmed.

WE DEPEND ON A LIMITED  NUMBER OF NETWORK  EQUIPMENT  SUPPLIERS  AND DO NOT HAVE
SUPPLY  CONTRACTS.  OUR  INABILITY  TO OBTAIN  NECESSARY  NETWORK  EQUIPMENT  OR
TECHNICAL SUPPORT COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS.

        Some key  components  we use in our networks are  available  only from a
limited  number of suppliers.  We do not have  long-term  supply  contracts with
these  or any  other  limited  source  vendors,  and we  purchase  data  network
equipment  on a purchase  order  basis.  If we are  unable to obtain  sufficient
quantities of limited source  equipment and required  technical  support,  or to
develop  alternate  sources as  required  in the  future,  our ability to deploy
equipment  in our networks  could be delayed or reduced,  or we may be forced to
pay higher prices for our network  components.  Delays or reductions in supplies
could lead to slowdowns or failures of our networks.

OUR RELIANCE ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES PROVIDERS EXPOSES
US TO A NUMBER OF RISKS  OVER  WHICH WE HAVE NO  CONTROL,  INCLUDING  RISKS WITH
RESPECT TO INCREASED PRICES AND TERMINATION OF ESSENTIAL SERVICES.

        The operation of our networks depends upon the capacity, reliability and
security of services  provided  to us by a limited  number of  telecommunication
services  providers.  We  have  no  control  over  the  operation,   quality  or
maintenance of those services or whether the vendors will improve their services
or continue to provide services that are essential to our business. In addition,
telecommunication  services  providers  may  increase  the  prices at which they
provide  services,  which  would  increase  our  costs.  If one or  more  of our

                                       67

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

telecommunication services providers were to cease to provide essential services
or to  significantly  increase  their  prices,  we  could  be  required  to find
alternative  vendors for these  services.  With a limited number of vendors,  we
could experience  significant  delays in obtaining new or replacement  services,
which could lead to slowdowns or failures of our  networks.  This could harm our
reputation and could cause us to lose customers and revenues.

A SLOWDOWN  OR FAILURE OF OUR  NETWORKS  COULD  CAUSE US TO LOSE  CUSTOMERS  AND
REVENUE.

        Our business is based upon our ability to rapidly and  reliably  receive
and transmit data through our networks.  One or more of our networks  could slow
down significantly or fail for a variety of reasons, including:

        o    undetected defects or errors in our software  programs,  especially
             when first integrated into a network;

        o    unexpected   problems   encountered   when   integrating   changes,
             enhancements  or upgrades of third party equipment or software with
             our systems;

        o    computer viruses;

        o    natural or terrorist related or other man-made disasters disrupting
             power or telecommunications systems generally; and

        o    damage  to,  or  failure  of,  our  systems  due to human  error or
             intentional disruption.

        We   may   not   have   sufficient    redundant    systems   or   backup
telecommunications  facilities  to allow us to receive and transmit  data in the
event of significant system failures. Any significant  degradation or failure of
one or more of our  networks  could  cause our  customers  to  suffer  delays in
transaction processing, which could damage our reputation,  increase our service
costs, or cause us to lose customers and revenues.

OUR PRODUCTS MAY SUFFER FROM DEFECTS OR ERRORS, WHICH MAY HARM OUR REPUTATION OR
SUBJECT US TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS.

        The  products  we offer are  inherently  complex.  Despite  testing  and
quality control,  current versions, new versions or enhancements of our products
may contain errors. Any errors, slowdown or failure in our products may harm our
reputation  or subject us to product  liability  claims.  Significant  technical
challenges  also arise with our  products  because our  customers  purchase  and
integrate them with a number of third party computer  applications and software.
Such  integration  may not always be successful.  Any defects or errors that are
discovered after commercial release could result in the loss of revenue or delay
in market acceptance of our products. Moreover, we could face higher development
costs  if our  products  contain  undetected  errors,  or if we fail to meet our
customers'  expectations.  Although  we  maintain  general  liability  insurance
coverage,  this coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or
at all. In addition, a product liability claim, whether or not successful, could
harm our business by increasing our costs and distracting our management.

WE FACE SUBSTANTIAL  COMPETITION IN OUR INDIVIDUAL  PRODUCT AREAS FROM COMPANIES
THAT HAVE GREATER FINANCIAL,  TECHNICAL AND MARKETING  CAPABILITIES.  THIS COULD
MAKE IT MORE  DIFFICULT  FOR US TO GAIN OR MAINTAIN  MARKET SHARE AND MAY HINDER
OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY.

        We operate in a highly  competitive  market  and expect  competition  to
intensify in the future.  Certain of our  competitors,  including  the financial
exchanges,  may have significantly  greater  financial,  technical and marketing
resources and more  extensive  customer bases and knowledge of the industry than
we have.

        Our industry is constantly evolving through technological and regulatory
change. Our competition varies widely and we encounter  different  categories of
competitors  for  each of our  product  and  service  offerings.  We  also  face

                                       68

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

competition from customers who choose to maintain their own  infrastructure  and
develop their own in-house proprietary order management software systems.

WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ADAPT TO CHANGING TECHNOLOGY AND OUR CUSTOMERS' TECHNOLOGY
NEEDS.

        We face rapidly changing  technology and frequent new service  offerings
by competitors that can render existing services  obsolete or unmarketable.  Our
future  success  depends  on our  ability to enhance  existing  services  and to
develop,  introduce  and  market,  on a timely  and cost  effective  basis,  new
services   that  keep  pace  with   technological   developments   and  customer
requirements.

OUR CUSTOMERS MAY DEVELOP IN-HOUSE  NETWORKS OR USE NETWORK PROVIDERS OTHER THAN
NYFIX AND DIVERT PART OR ALL OF THEIR DATA  COMMUNICATIONS  FROM OUR NETWORKS TO
THEIR NETWORKS.

        Our  customers  may  develop  in-house  networks  or use  other  network
providers because such customers want to connect to destinations not part of our
NYFIX Network or to only certain, but not all, destinations covered by our NYFIX
Network.  As a result of any of these events, we could experience lower revenues
or lost  revenues  from  delays in  connecting  customers  to our NYFIX  Network
indirectly through third party providers rather than directly by us.

WE FACE SIGNIFICANT PRESSURE ON THE PRICES FOR OUR SERVICES FROM OUR COMPETITORS
AND  CUSTOMERS.  OUR  FAILURE TO SUSTAIN  PRICING  COULD  IMPAIR OUR  ABILITY TO
ACHIEVE OR MAINTAIN PROFITABILITY OR POSITIVE CASH FLOW.

        Our  competitors  and  customers  may cause us to reduce  the  prices we
charge  for  services,  the  effects  of which we may not be able to  offset  by
increasing  the number of  customers  or  transactions.  The primary  sources of
pricing pressure include:

        o    competitors offering our customers services at reduced prices;

        o    our customers seeking greater pricing discounts; and

        o    consolidation of existing customers.

A DECLINE IN SUBSCRIPTION REVENUE, OUR LARGEST SOURCE OF REVENUE, OR TRANSACTION
REVENUE WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY.

        Subscription   revenue  is  our  most  significant  source  of  revenue.
Subscription  revenue is fixed based on a contractual period of time,  typically
one to three years,  and is not affected by trading  volumes.  However,  trading
volumes do affect the  revenues of our  customers  and this could  affect  their
future  purchases of our  technology  and  services.  Pricing  pressures  due to
competition, failure to sign new agreements with customers because of reductions
in their new technology  spending,  and observed  consolidation in the financial
sector could affect our revenues and  profitability.  Our costs  associated with
supporting the  subscription  agreements are generally  fixed and thus a loss of
revenue would impact profitability.

        Transaction  revenue  has  been a  growing  component  of  our  revenue;
however,  there is no assurance we can continue to grow transaction  revenue. As
our costs to support  transaction  revenue  are  generally  fixed,  a decline in
revenue would directly impact our  profitability.  Several risk factors apply to
the analysis of the potential growth of transaction revenue.

        There is significant  competitive pressure brought on by a proliferation
of electronic  execution  competitors.  There is the potential for change in the
current  US market  structure  that may make it  difficult  for the  transaction
business to compete with more traditional  broker-dealer  business  models.  For
example, the NYSE could establish limits on electronic access, or the NYSE could
create an electronic matching order engine of its own.

                                       69

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

        Customer   demands  for  increased   bandwidth  and  speed  could  place
significant stress on our  infrastructure  requiring  continued  reinvestment in
hardware  and  software to keep pace with overall  business  growth.  We have no
current plans to transition from the subscription or  transaction-based  revenue
model due to general  acceptance of it in the  marketplace and the current trend
of recurring, predictable revenue recognition and cash flows.

NYSE AND SEC SPECIFIC REGULATORY CHANGES MAY IMPAIR OUR REVENUE.

        We provide  our floor  broker  technology  services to major NYSE member
firms and a large  group of $2  brokers.  The NYSE is  proposing  to update  the
securities trading rules related to the DOT system services of NYSE Direct + and
NYSE  Institutional  Express.  Both  of  these  services  are  electronic  trade
execution services that NYSE has created to compete,  mainly with ECNs and other
fully electronic marketplaces.

        If the  extended  functionality  and  access to either  one or both NYSE
Direct + and  NYSE  Institutional  Express  are  successful,  this may lead to a
lesser need to utilize floor  brokers and clerks to execute  trades on the NYSE.
This situation would proportionally  reduce the need for floor booth technology.
This  situation  is a risk to the NYFIX  subscription  revenue that is generated
from existing  operations.  This situation  also is a risk to estimating  future
growth in the  subscription  revenue  from floor  booth  technology  provided by
NYFIX.

        We would be most impacted if the NYSE proposed  changes happen in a very
sudden  timeframe  and create an  immediate  consolidation  of large NYSE member
firms and  independent  member firms. We are aware that both types of firms have
been  operating  under  sustained  financial  pressure due to market  conditions
during  2001 to present.  We  anticipate  that many member  firms both large and
small could become insolvent within months if the given changes do make the NYSE
more  electronically  accessible  and reduce  order flow to the floor  brokerage
groups.

WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PROTECT  OUR  INTELLECTUAL  PROPERTY  RIGHTS,  WHICH COULD
WEAKEN OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION, REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND INCREASE OUR COSTS.

        Our success and ability to compete are dependent to a significant degree
on our intellectual  property rights, which include our proprietary  technology,
trade secrets and customer base. However, no one patent, trademark or other form
of intellectual property rights is critical to our business.

        Despite  our  efforts to protect our  proprietary  rights,  unauthorized
parties  may  attempt  to copy or  otherwise  obtain  and  use our  products  or
technology.  Monitoring  unauthorized  use of our products is  difficult  and we
cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent  unauthorized use of
our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect
our proprietary rights as fully as in the US. If competitors are able to use our
technology,  our ability to compete effectively could be harmed.  Litigation may
be  necessary  in the future to enforce our  intellectual  property  rights,  to
protect  our  trade  secrets,  to  determine  the  validity  and  scope  of  the
proprietary  rights of others,  or to defend against claims of  infringement  or
invalidity.  Litigation,  whether or not successful, could result in substantial
costs and diversions of resources.

WE MAY FACE CLAIMS OF INFRINGEMENT OF PROPRIETARY  RIGHTS,  WHICH COULD HARM OUR
BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS.

        Third parties may assert claims that we are infringing their proprietary
rights.  If  infringement  claims  are  asserted  against  us,  we  could  incur
significant  costs in defending those claims.  We may be required to discontinue
using and selling any infringing technology and services, to expend resources to
develop  non-infringing  technology or to purchase licenses or pay royalties for
other technology.  We may be unable to acquire licenses for the other technology
on reasonable  commercial terms or at all. As a result,  we may find that we are
unable to continue to offer the services  and  products  upon which our business
depends.

                                       70

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

THE SECURITIES BROKERAGE INDUSTRY IS SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE GOVERNMENT REGULATION.
IF  NYFIX  MILLENNIUM,  NYFIX  TRANSACTION  SERVICES,  NYFIX  CLEARING  OR NYFIX
INTERNATIONAL  FAIL TO COMPLY  WITH  THESE  REGULATIONS,  THEY MAY BE SUBJECT TO
DISCIPLINARY OR OTHER ACTION BY REGULATORY ORGANIZATIONS.

        We are subject to extensive government  regulation and may be subject to
disciplinary  or other action by regulatory  organizations  if we fail to comply
with such regulation, which could increase our capital expenditures and decrease
our earnings.

        NYFIX  Millennium,  NYFIX  Transaction  Services and NYFIX  Clearing are
subject to  extensive  regulation  under both  Federal  and state laws and NYFIX
International  is subject to extensive  regulation under UK laws. In addition to
these laws, we must comply with rules of the SEC,  including  Regulation ATS for
NYFIX Millennium,  and the NASD, FSA, various stock exchanges,  state securities
commissions and other regulatory  bodies charged with safeguarding the integrity
of the  securities  markets  and other  financial  markets  and  protecting  the
interests  of  investors   participating   in  these   markets.   As  registered
broker-dealers, NYFIX Millennium, NYFIX Transaction Services, NYFIX Clearing and
NYFIX International are subject to numerous  regulations covering the securities
business, including:

        o    marketing practices;

        o    capital structure, including net capital requirements;

        o    record keeping; and

        o    conduct of directors, officers and employees.

        Any  failure  to comply  with  these  regulations  could  subject  NYFIX
Millennium, NYFIX Transaction Services, NYFIX Clearing or NYFIX International to
censure,  fines,  the  issuance of  cease-and-desist  orders or the  suspension,
and/or disqualification of its officers,  directors or employees.  The fines, if
material,  could have an adverse effect on our earnings because it could greatly
increase our capital  expenditures.  If any of our employees  were  suspended or
disqualified,  we may be unable to meet the needs of our customers or to solicit
new  business.  This  could  also  have  an  adverse  effect  on  our  earnings.
Furthermore,  any such  penalties  could  materially  harm our reputation in the
industry, which could have a long-term effect on our financial growth.

NYFIX  MILLENNIUM,   NYFIX  TRANSACTION   SERVICES,   NYFIX  CLEARING  OR  NYFIX
INTERNATIONAL MAY NOT HAVE EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT METHODS.

        NYFIX Millennium's,  NYFIX Transaction  Services',  NYFIX Clearing's and
NYFIX International's  ability to comply with regulations depends largely on the
establishment  and  maintenance of an effective  compliance  system,  as well as
their  ability  to attract  and retain  qualified  compliance  personnel.  NYFIX
Millennium,  NYFIX Transaction  Services,  NYFIX Clearing or NYFIX International
could be subject to disciplinary  or other actions due to claimed  noncompliance
with  regulations  in the  future.  If a  claim  of  noncompliance  is made by a
regulatory authority,  the efforts of the management of NYFIX Millennium,  NYFIX
Transaction Services, NYFIX Clearing or NYFIX International could be diverted to
responding  to such  claim  and they  could be  subject  to a range of  possible
consequences,  including the payment of fines, civil lawsuits and the suspension
of one or more  portions of its business.  In addition,  their mode of operation
and profitability may be directly affected by:

        o    additional legislation;

        o    changes in rules  promulgated  by the SEC,  the NASD,  the FSA, the
             Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the various stock
             exchanges or other self-regulatory organizations; or

        o    changes in the  interpretation  or enforcement of existing laws and
             rules.

                                       71

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

        In addition, NYFIX Millennium's status as a recognized ATS requires that
its trade  execution  and  communication  systems be able to handle  anticipated
present and future peak trading volumes.  If any of our systems become disabled,
the  ability  to  process  trades  and  handle  peak  trading  volumes  will  be
compromised.  The status of NYFIX  Millennium and NYFIX Clearing  Corporation as
SEC registered broker-dealers and NASD members and NYFIX International as an FSA
registered  broker-dealer are conditioned,  in part, on their ability to process
and settle trades.

OUR BROKER-DEALER SUBSIDIARIES MAY BE RESTRICTED IN THEIR OPERATIONS SHOULD THEY
FAIL TO MEET THEIR MINIMUM AND MINIMUM EXCESS NET CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS.

        Our NYFIX  Millennium,  NYFIX Transaction  Services,  NYFIX Clearing and
NYFIX International broker-dealer subsidiaries,  individually,  have to maintain
certain  minimum  net capital and  minimum  excess net capital  requirements  as
mandated  by  certain  regulatory  agencies.  Some of  these  requirements  vary
according to the  profitability of the  broker-dealer  and rise as profitability
falls. At December 31, 2004, our broker-dealers in the aggregate had minimum net
capital  and minimum  excess net  capital  requirements  of $11.0  million.  Our
broker-dealer  operations  may need  additional  funds in the future to maintain
their minimum and minimum excess net capital requirements. At December 31, 2004,
we had cash and short-term investments of $12.9 million that were not subject to
our   broker-dealer   minimum  net  capital  and  minimum   excess  net  capital
requirements.  In the first quarter of 2005, we provided an aggregate additional
capital of $2.8 million in the form of additional capital contributions.  If our
broker-dealers   fall  below  their  minimum  and  minimum  excess  net  capital
requirements,   their   operations  would  be  restricted  by  their  respective
regulatory agencies.

OUR  BROKER-DEALER  SUBSIDIARIES ARE AT RISK IF THEIR CUSTOMERS DEFAULT ON THEIR
TRADING OBLIGATIONS.

        Under  applicable  regulatory   requirements,   our  broker-dealers  are
required  to cover for  their  customers  if their  customers  default  on their
trading  obligations by improperly  failing to deliver cash or securities on the
date when a trade settles.  The broker-dealer can pursue its customer for losses
the  broker-dealer  sustains by delivering the required cash or securities.  Our
broker-dealers  attempt to manage the risks  associated  with  customer  trading
defaults  by  conducting  a number  of  background  checks  on their  customers,
including   financial  history,   credit,   regulatory  and  legal  checks.  The
broker-dealer  decides  which  background  checks  to  undertake  based  on  the
relationship  with the customer  and the nature and extent of the business  that
the customer has with the broker-dealer. In addition, our broker-dealers monitor
trades to check that  counterparties  know and confirm trades before  settlement
date to minimize market risk to which our  broker-dealers can be exposed between
trade date and settlement date. Despite these measures to reduce the risk to our
broker-dealers  from  trading  defaults  by  their  customers,  there  can be no
assurance  that our  broker-dealers  will avoid such risks  entirely  or that if
losses do occur they will not have a material impact on the financial  condition
or reputation of the affected broker-dealer.

NYFIX  CLEARING MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CLEAR TRADES DUE TO MAXIMUM LIMITS IMPOSED BY
THE DTCC AND THE NEED FOR INTRA-DAY FUNDING COMMITMENTS FROM THIRD PARTIES.

        NYFIX  Clearing is restricted to a maximum limit imposed by the DTCC. In
addition,  to be  able  to  clear  trades,  NYFIX  Clearing  may  require  added
commitments from  unaffiliated  institutions to provide funding during a trading
day ("intra-day funding").  An inability to maintain or raise its maximum limits
or to obtain and maintain  third-party  commitments to support intra-day funding
could have an adverse impact on NYFIX  Clearing's  ability to maintain or expand
its business.

                                       72

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

THE  ABILITY OF NYFIX  CLEARING  TO  MAINTAIN  OR EXPAND ITS  BUSINESS  COULD BE
ADVERSELY  IMPACTED IF IT DID NOT  CONTINUE TO HAVE  THIRD-PARTY  ASSISTANCE  TO
ACCESS EXCHANGES AND OTHER IMPORTANT TRADING VENUES.

        NYFIX  Clearing  provides  clearing  and  settlement  services  with the
assistance of third parties who provide NYFIX  Clearing  access to exchanges and
other important trading venues in the execution business. If such third parties,
exchanges or regulators  determine  that NYFIX  Clearing must  discontinue  such
indirect access,  this could have an adverse impact on NYFIX Clearing's  ability
to maintain or expand its business.

WE MAY LACK THE  CAPITAL  REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN  OUR  COMPETITIVE  POSITION OR TO
SUSTAIN OUR GROWTH.

        We have  historically  relied on cash flow from  operations and proceeds
from equity and debt to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion.
If we are unable to obtain  sufficient  capital in the  future,  we may face the
following risks, including not being able to:

        o    continue to meet customer demand for service quality,  availability
             and competitive pricing;

        o    expand or to acquire complementary businesses; and

        o    develop new  services  or  otherwise  respond to changing  business
             conditions or unanticipated competitive pressures.

WE MAY NOT HAVE ADEQUATE RESOURCES TO MEET DEMANDS RESULTING FROM GROWTH.

        Growth may strain our management  systems and resources.  We may need to
make additional investments in the following areas:

        o    recruitment and training;

        o    communications and information systems;

        o    sales and marketing;

        o    facilities and other infrastructure;

        o    treasury and accounting functions;

        o    licensing and acquisition of technology and rights; and

        o    employee and customer relations and management.

        If we fail to develop systems, procedures and controls to handle current
and future growth on a timely basis,  we may be less efficient in the management
of our business or encounter difficulties  implementing our strategy,  either of
which could harm our results of operations.

CONDUCTING  BUSINESS IN INTERNATIONAL  MARKETS SUBJECTS US TO ADDITIONAL  RISKS.
ALSO, OUR STRATEGY TO EXPAND OUR BUSINESS  INTERNATIONALLY  MAY FAIL,  WHICH MAY
IMPEDE OUR GROWTH AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS.

        For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, approximately 13%,
10% and 7%,  respectively,  of our revenue was  derived  from our  international
operations.  We believe international revenue will be an important component for
our future  success.  Thus, we are subject to various risks in doing business in
international markets, including:

        o    difficulties  in recruiting,  training and retaining  personnel and
             managing   and   implementing   existing   and  new   international
             operations;

        o    localizing   our  products  to  target  the   specific   needs  and
             preferences  of  foreign  customers,  which  may  differ  from  our
             traditional customer base in the US;

                                       73

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

        o    building our brand name and awareness of our services among foreign
             customers;

        o    competition with existing market  participants  which have a longer
             history in and  greater  familiarity  with the  foreign  markets we
             enter;

        o    laws and business practices that can favor local competitors;

        o    fluctuations in currency exchange rates;

        o    imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign  currencies into
             US dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign
             subsidiaries; and

        o    changes in a specific  country's or region's  political or economic
             conditions.

        If we fail  adequately to address the  challenges  and risks  associated
with our international  operations and expansion,  we may encounter difficulties
implementing  our strategy,  which could impede our growth or harm our operating
results.

OUR ABILITY TO SELL OUR PRODUCTS  AND  SERVICES  AND GROW OUR BUSINESS  COULD BE
SIGNIFICANTLY IMPAIRED IF WE LOSE THE SERVICES OF KEY PERSONNEL.

        Our business is highly dependent on a number of key executive  officers,
including Peter K. Hansen,  our founder,  Chief Executive Officer and President,
and Lars Kragh, our Chief Information  Officer,  who have been with us since our
inception in 1991.  The loss of the services of any of our key  personnel  could
have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

RECENTLY  ENACTED AND PROPOSED CHANGES IN SECURITIES LAWS ARE LIKELY TO INCREASE
OUR COSTS.

        Sarbanes-Oxley,  as well as new rules  subsequently  implemented  by the
SEC, has required changes in certain of our corporate  governance and accounting
practices.  In addition, the NASDAQ has promulgated a number of regulations.  We
expect these laws,  rules and  regulations  to increase our legal and  financial
compliance costs and to make some activities more difficult,  time consuming and
costly. We also expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult
and more expensive for us to obtain  director and officer  liability  insurance,
and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur significantly  higher
costs to obtain coverage.  These new laws, rules and regulations could also make
it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of
directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive
officers.

TERRORIST THREATS AND ATTACKS AND THE SITUATION IN IRAQ HAVE CREATED SIGNIFICANT
INSTABILITY  AND  UNCERTAINTY IN THE FINANCIAL  MARKETPLACE TO WHICH WE SELL AND
MAY CREATE A MORE VOLATILE ENVIRONMENT.

        The terrorist  attacks in the US on September 11, 2001, the  declaration
of war by the US  against  terrorism  and the  current  situation  in Iraq  have
created  significant  instability and uncertainty in the financial  marketplace,
both in the US and globally.  Such adverse political events may have a continued
negative  impact on economic  conditions  in the financial  marketplace  and our
customers.  The  unfavorable  conditions  may  have  an  adverse  effect  on our
financial  operations  including,  but not limited to, our ability to expand the
market for our products,  enter into  strategic  relationships  and  effectively
compete.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

INTEREST RATES

        Market risk  generally  represents the risk of loss that may be expected
to result  from the  potential  change in value of a financial  instrument  as a
result of fluctuations in credit ratings of the issuer, equity prices,  interest
rates or foreign  currency  exchange rates.  We do not use derivative  financial
instruments for any purpose.

                                       74

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

        We are exposed to market risk  principally  through  changes in interest
rates and equity prices. Our short and long-term  investment  portfolios of $4.5
million and $3.4 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively,  consisted
of $1.2 million and $2.4 million,  respectively,  of auction rate  certificates.
Risk is limited on the auction rate certificates  portfolio due to the fact that
it is invested in insured municipal bonds. The potential  decrease in fair value
resulting from a hypothetical  10% change in interest rates for the auction rate
certificates  would not be material to the results of operations  and cash flows
or their fair value.

        We are  subject  to  interest  rate  risk on our $3.3  million  and $1.0
million  of  treasury  bills at  December  31,  2004 and 2003,  respectively.  A
hypothetical  10% change in interest rates would not result in a material change
in their fair value.

FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK

        Our earnings are affected by  fluctuations in the value of the US dollar
as compared with foreign  currencies,  which are primarily the British pound and
the Euro, due to our operations in the United Kingdom and Europe.

        We manage  foreign  currency risk through the structure of our business.
In the substantial majority of our transactions, we receive payments denominated
in the US dollar, British pounds sterling or the Euro. Therefore, we do not rely
on  international  currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid  currencies.  The
foreign  currency  exposure  that  does  exist is  limited  by the fact that the
majority of transactions are paid according to our standard payment terms, which
are generally  short-term in nature.  For the years ended  December 31, 2004 and
2003, we recorded a foreign  exchange  translation gain of $0.1 million and $0.3
million, respectively.

SECURITIES MARKET AND CREDIT RISK

        NYFIX  Clearing is subject to market risk when a  counterparty  does not
deliver cash or securities to it as expected and NYFIX  Clearing  holds cash (in
lieu of securities)  or securities (in lieu of cash) at any point in time.  This
risk arises from the potential inability of the counterparty's clearing agent to
meet its settlement  obligation by delivering  cash or securities,  as required,
which is a credit  risk.  NYFIX  Clearing  is a member of several  highly  rated
clearing organizations, which have margin requirements and other mechanisms that
are designed to substantially mitigate this risk.

        When necessary,  NYFIX Clearing can liquidate or purchase  securities in
the market to close out the  position  at the  prevailing  market  price.  NYFIX
Clearing's  stock  lending  practice is to maintain  collateral in excess of the
contract value and to request additional  collateral whenever  necessary.  NYFIX
Clearing seeks  high-quality,  creditworthy  counterparties  and has controls in
place that are designed to monitor and limit this exposure.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

        See index to Financial Statements on Page F-1.

ITEM 9. CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS   WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

        "Disclosure  controls and procedures" are defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange  Act").  These

                                       75

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

rules refer to the controls and other  procedures of a company that are designed
to ensure  that the  information  required to be  disclosed  by a company in the
reports that it files under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,  summarized
and reported  within required time periods.  Disclosure  controls and procedures
also include,  without  limitation,  controls and procedures  designed to ensure
that  information  required  to be  disclosed  in our  Exchange  Act  reports is
accumulated  and  communicated  to  management,  including  our Chief  Executive
Officer  and our  Chief  Financial  Officer,  as  appropriate  to  allow  timely
decisions regarding required  disclosure.  There are inherent limitations to the
effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the
possibility of human error and the  circumvention  or overriding of the controls
and procedures.  Accordingly,  even effective disclosure controls and procedures
can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.

        We, including our Chief Executive  Officer and Chief Financial  Officer,
have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of
our  disclosure  controls  and  procedures,  as defined in Rules  13a-15(e)  and
15d-15(e)  under  the  Exchange  Act  as of  December  31,  2004.  Based  on our
evaluation of the  effectiveness  of the design and operation of the  disclosure
controls  and  procedures,  because of the matters  discussed  below,  our Chief
Executive  Officer and Chief  Financial  Officer  concluded  that the  Company's
disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2004.

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

        Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining  adequate
internal  control over financial  reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f)  under
the Exchange Act). NYFIX,  Inc.'s internal control over financial  reporting was
designed to provide  reasonable  assurance to our management  and NYFIX,  Inc.'s
Board of Directors  regarding  the  reliability  of financial  reporting and the
preparation  of  consolidated  financial  statements  for  external  purposes in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America  ("generally  accepted  accounting  principles"),   and  includes  those
policies and procedures that:

        -    Pertain to the  maintenance  of records that in  reasonable  detail
             accurately and fairly reflect the  transactions and dispositions of
             NYFIX, Inc.'s assets;

        -    Provide  reasonable  assurance  that  transactions  are recorded as
             necessary  to  permit   preparation   of   consolidated   financial
             statements  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted   accounting
             principles,  and that receipts and expenditures are being made only
             in accordance with authorizations of management and directors; and

        -    Provide  reasonable   assurance  regarding   prevention  or  timely
             detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of NYFIX,
             Inc.'s assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated
             financial statements.

        All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent
limitations.  Therefore,  even those  systems  determined  to be  effective  can
provide  only   reasonable   assurance  with  respect  to  financial   statement
preparation and presentation.  These inherent  limitations include the realities
that judgments in  decision-making  can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur
because of simple error or mistake.  Additionally,  controls can be circumvented
by the individual acts of some people, by collusion of two or more people, or by
management override.  The design of any system of controls also is based in part
upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be
no assurance  that any design will  succeed in achieving  its stated goals under
all potential future conditions; over time, control may

                                       76

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

become inadequate because of changes in conditions,  or the degree of compliance
with the  policies  or  procedures  may  deteriorate.  Because  of the  inherent
limitations in a cost-effective  control system,  misstatements  due to error or
fraud may occur and not be  detected.  A material  weakness in internal  control
over  financial  reporting  is a control  deficiency  (within the meaning of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("PCAOB") Auditing Standard No. 2), or
combination  of control  deficiencies,  that  results in there being more than a
remote  likelihood  that a  material  misstatement  of  the  annual  or  interim
financial statements will not be prevented or detected.  PCAOB Auditing Standard
No. 2  identifies  a number  of  circumstances  that,  because  of their  likely
significant negative effect on internal control over financial reporting, are to
be regarded as at least  significant  deficiencies as well as strong  indicators
that a material weakness exists,  including the restatement of previously issued
consolidated financial statements to reflect the correction of a misstatement.

        Management  assessed the effectiveness of NYFIX, Inc.'s internal control
over  financial  reporting as of December 31, 2004.  In making this  assessment,
management   used  the  criteria  set  forth  by  the  Committee  of  Sponsoring
Organizations   of  the   Treadway   Commission,   or  COSO,   in  its  INTERNAL
CONTROL-INTEGRATED FRAMEWORK. Based on this assessment, management has concluded
that, as of December 31, 2004, NYFIX, Inc. did not maintain  effective  internal
control over financial reporting, due to the following material weakness: NYFIX,
Inc. did not design and  implement  adequate  policies and  procedures to review
certain   transactions  for  compliance  with  generally   accepted   accounting
principles.  The material weakness  resulted in the  misapplication of generally
accepted  accounting  principles related to accounting for compensation  expense
attributable to stock options granted, a tenant allowance and the recognition of
rent expense as of the lease  commencement date contained in an operating lease,
and deferred income taxes in connection with certain acquisitions, as summarized
below:

        1)   We  determined  that  our  accounting  for   compensation   expense
             attributable  to stock  options  granted to certain  employees  and
             directors  between 1993 and 2004 was  incorrect  for the  following
             reasons:  the intrinsic  value of certain stock options  granted to
             employees and directors was  calculated as of a date other than the
             measurement  date.  The  adjustments  required  us to  correct  the
             accounting for compensation  expense  attributable to stock options
             granted resulting in a material adjustment to our previously issued
             consolidated  financial  statements.  As a result,  we restated our
             previously issued consolidated  financial  statements  contained in
             this Form 10-K. In addition, we intend to amend our tax filings, as
             necessary.

        2)   Based on an internal review of our accounting for leases, which was
             encouraged  by a letter on the subject from the Office of the Chief
             Accountant  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  to  the
             American  Institute of Certified Public  Accountants on February 7,
             2005, we determined that our accounting for a tenant  allowance and
             the recognition of rent expense as of the lease  commencement  date
             contained in an operating lease,  effective in 2004, for one of our
             offices was incorrect for the following  reasons:  a) we recognized
             rent expense as of the date we began operations within the premises
             rather than the lease commencement date; and b) we reduced the cost
             basis of our  leasehold  improvements  by the  amount of the tenant
             allowance  rather than recording it as deferred rent and amortizing
             such  amount  as a  credit  to lease  expense  over the term of the
             lease.  We corrected  these errors and properly  accounted for this
             lease as of December 31, 2004.

        3)   We  determined  that our  accounting  for deferred  income taxes in
             connection with certain acquisitions was incorrect,  because we did
             not correctly  identify and account for the  allocation of deferred
             tax assets and liabilities  acquired.  As a result, we restated our
             previously issued consolidated  financial  statements  contained in
             this Form 10-K.

                                       77

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

        As a result  of the  breadth  and  depth  of the  reviews  performed  to
implement and to maintain  compliance with the provisions of the  Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002, we have made and intend to continue to make,  various  improvements
to our system of internal control over financial reporting. The Company made the
following  changes in the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2004 and
in 2005 that it believes  will have a material  effect on internal  control over
financial   reporting.   These  improvements  include  additional  and  enhanced
reconciliations  and controls over the  disclosure  process.  In addition to the
above remediation,  we have supplemented,  and intend to continue supplementing,
our internal and external  expertise in  accounting  and tax, and also intend to
enhance our  internal  review  procedures  for all new,  unusual or  non-routine
transactions to ensure proper treatment and disclosure.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
NYFIX, Inc.
Stamford, Connecticut

        We have audited  management's  assessment,  included in the accompanying
"Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting",  that NYFIX,
Inc.  and  subsidiaries  (the  "Company")  did not maintain  effective  internal
control over financial  reporting as of December 31, 2004, because of the effect
of the  material  weaknesses  identified  in  management's  assessment  based on
criteria  established in INTERNAL  CONTROL--INTEGRATED  FRAMEWORK  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  The Company's
management  is  responsible  for  maintaining  effective  internal  control over
financial  reporting  and for its  assessment of the  effectiveness  of internal
control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
management's  assessment  and an opinion on the  effectiveness  of the Company's
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

        We conducted  our audit in  accordance  with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and  perform  the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether
effective  internal  control over  financial  reporting  was  maintained  in all
material  respects.  Our audit included  obtaining an  understanding of internal
control over financial reporting,  evaluating management's  assessment,  testing
and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control,  and
performing   such  other   procedures   as  we   considered   necessary  in  the
circumstances.  We believe that our audit  provides a  reasonable  basis for our
opinions.

        A company's  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  is a process
designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's  principal executive and
principal  financial  officers,  or persons performing  similar  functions,  and
effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to
provide reasonable  assurance  regarding the reliability of financial  reporting
and the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial  reporting  includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the  maintenance  of records that, in reasonable  detail,  accurately and fairly
reflect the  transactions  and  dispositions  of the assets of the company;  (2)
provide  reasonable  assurance  that  transactions  are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  and that receipts and  expenditures  of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of  unauthorized  acquisition,  use, or  disposition  of the company's
assets  that  could  have  a  material  effect  on  the  consolidated  financial
statements.

                                       78

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

            Because  of  the  inherent  limitations  of  internal  control  over
financial  reporting,   including  the  possibility  of  collusion  or  improper
management  override of controls,  material  misstatements due to error or fraud
may not be prevented or detected on a timely  basis.  Also,  projections  of any
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting
to  future  periods  are  subject  to the risk  that  the  controls  may  become
inadequate  because of changes in  conditions,  or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

        A material  weakness is a  significant  deficiency,  or  combination  of
significant  deficiencies,  that results in more than a remote likelihood that a
material  misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be
prevented or detected.  The following  material weakness has been identified and
included in management's assessment:  the Company failed to design and implement
appropriate  controls  associated with the application of accounting  principles
generally  accepted in the United States of America.  Specifically,  the Company
did not design and implement  adequate policies and procedures to review certain
transactions  to  determine  that  they are  accounted  for in  compliance  with
generally  accepted  accounting  principles.  This material weakness resulted in
material errors in the financial  statements related to (1) compensation expense
attributable  to  stock  options  granted;  (2) the  classification  of a tenant
allowance and the recognition of rent expense as of the lease  commencement date
contained in an operating  lease;  and (3) deferred  income taxes in  connection
with certain  acquisitions.  This material weakness resulted in a restatement of
the  Company's  annual  consolidated  financial  statements  as  it  relates  to
compensation expense and deferred income taxes. The impact of the restatement on
the previously issued consolidated  financial  statements is described in Note 2
to the consolidated financial statements.  Material adjustments,  as a result of
the  restatement,  were  necessary  to  present  the  2004  annual  consolidated
financial   statements  in  accordance   with  generally   accepted   accounting
principles.  Due  to the  actual  misstatements  identified  and  the  potential
pervasive effect on the financial  statements and related disclosures there is a
more than  remote  likelihood  that a material  misstatement  of the interim and
annual consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected. This
material weakness was considered in determining the nature,  timing,  and extent
of audit tests applied in our audit of the consolidated  financial statements as
of and for the year ended December 31, 2004, of the Company and this report does
not affect our report on such consolidated financial statements.

            In our  opinion,  management's  assessment  that the Company did not
maintain effective internal control over financial  reporting as of December 31,
2004,  is  fairly  stated,  in all  material  respects,  based  on the  criteria
established in INTERNAL CONTROL--INTEGRATED FRAMEWORK issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring  Organizations  of the  Treadway  Commission.  Also  in our  opinion,
because  of  the  effect  of  the  material  weakness  described  above  on  the
achievement  of the  objectives  of the  control  criteria,  the Company has not
maintained  effective  internal control over financial  reporting as of December
31, 2004,  based on the  criteria  established  in INTERNAL  CONTROL--INTEGRATED
FRAMEWORK  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring  Organizations  of the Treadway
Commission.

            We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),  the consolidated  financial
statements  as of and for the year ended  December 31, 2004,  of the Company and
our  report  dated  June 28,  2005  expressed  an  unqualified  opinion on those
financial statements.


DELOITTE &amp; TOUCHE LLP

Stamford, Connecticut
June 28, 2005


ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

Not applicable.

                                       79

<PAGE>



PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        Information  concerning our directors and executive officers,  as of May
31, 2005, is set forth below:


NAME                        AGE    POSITION
- ----                        ---    --------
Peter Kilbinger Hansen      44     President, Chief Executive Officer and
                                      Chairman of the Board
George O. Deehan            62     Director
William C. Jennings         65     Director
William J. Lynch            63     Director
Thomas C. Wajnert           61     Director
Robert C. Gasser            40     Chief Executive Officer, NYFIX Millennium and
                                      President of NYFIX Transaction Services
                                      and NYFIX Clearing Corporation
Jay D. Shaffer              58      Executive Vice President - Finance and
                                      Administration
Mark R. Hahn                47      Chief Financial Officer
Keith R. Jamaitis           34      President, NYFIX USA
Brian Bellardo              55      General Counsel and Secretary
Lars Kragh                  44      Chief Information Officer

        Our Board of Directors  currently consists of five members,  all of whom
will serve until their  reelection at our next annual meeting of stockholders or
until the election and  qualification  of their  successors or until their prior
resignation,  removal,  or death. Our Board of Directors has determined that all
directors, other than Mr. Hansen, are independent under Nasdaq Rule 4200(a)(15),
based on information known to us.

OUR DIRECTORS

PETER  KILBINGER  HANSEN,  our  founder,  has  served  as our  President,  Chief
Executive  Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors since June 1991. Prior
to our founding, Mr. Hansen served from 1984 to 1988 as Marketing Manager, Sales
&amp; Marketing Manager, Managing Director respectively of Mark Computer Systems A/S
Scandinavian based international  company,  and from 1988 until 1991 as Managing
Director  of  Banking  Systems  of  Business  Line  A/S,  a  Scandinavian  based
international  company. Mr. Hansen holds a degree in Economics from Neil's Brock
Business  School of Copenhagen  and an associated  degree in economics  from the
Copenhagen University of Language and Economics.

GEORGE O. DEEHAN has served as a director  since August 2000.  Mr. Deehan serves
as a  Chairman  of the  Compensation  Committee  and a member  of the  Audit and
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors.  Since
October 2003, he has been the Chief Executive  Officer and Chairman of the Board
of Paragon Financial Corporation, a specialty residential mortgage banker. He is
also a consultant  and an investor of  eOriginal,  Inc., a software  development
company,  since March 2002.  Mr. Deehan was  President of  eOriginal,  Inc. from
August 2000 until March 2002. He was President  and Chief  Executive  Officer of
Advanta  Leasing  Services,  the  business  equipment  leasing  unit of  Advanta
Business Services, from August 1998 until August 2000. Prior to joining Advanta,
Mr.  Deehan  served as  President  and Chief  Operating  Officer of  Information
Technology  Services  for AT&amp;T  Capital.  He  earned a  bachelor's  degree  from
Lenoir-Rhyne College.

WILLIAM  C.  JENNINGS  has served as a director  since July 2003.  Mr.  Jennings
serves as Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the  Compensation  and

                                       80

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

Nominating and Corporate  Governance  Committees of our Board of Directors.  Mr.
Jennings  is an audit  committee  financial  expert  as  defined  in Item 401 of
Regulation  S-K  promulgated  by the SEC and is  independent  as defined in Item
7(d)(3)(iv)  of Schedule 14A under the Exchange  Act. Mr.  Jennings is a retired
partner of  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP, a global  accounting and advisory firm,
where he led the risk management and internal control  consulting  practice from
1992 until his  retirement  in 1999.  Prior to that,  Mr.  Jennings  served as a
senior audit partner at Coopers &amp; Lybrand (now,  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP), as
a senior executive vice president at Shearson Lehman  Brothers,  responsible for
quality  assurance,  internal  audit and  compliance,  and as an executive  vice
president and chief  financial  officer of Bankers  Trust.  Since  retiring from
PricewaterhouseCoopers, Mr. Jennings provided independent consulting services to
a number of companies. He is also a director of Silgan Holdings Inc. and Axcelis
Technologies, Inc., both publicly traded companies.

WILLIAM J. LYNCH has served as a director  since June 2000.  Mr. Lynch serves as
Chairman of the  Nominating and Corporate  Governance  Committee and a member of
the Audit and Compensation  Committees of our Board of Directors.  Since January
2001, he has been a consultant/venture  partner of Catterton Partners, a private
equity  fund.  From 1996  through  December  2000,  Mr. Lynch served as Managing
Director of Capstone  Partners,  LLC, a venture  capital  firm.  Mr.  Lynch also
serves as  Chairman  of the Board of  Directors  of  Edgewater  Technologies,  a
publicly traded company.

THOMAS C.  WAJNERT has served as a director  since  October  2004.  Mr.  Wajnert
serves  as a member of the  Nominating  and  Corporate  Governance,  Audit,  and
Compensation Committees of our Board of Directors. Mr. Wajnert has been Managing
Director of Fairview  Advisors,  LLC, a merchant bank since January 2002. He was
Chairman  and Chief  Executive  Officer of SEISMIQ,  Inc, a provider of advanced
technology to the commercial finance and leasing industry,  from its founding in
April 2000 until  December  2001.  Mr.  Wajnert  also was the Chairman of, and a
significant   investor  in,  EPIX  Holdings,   Inc.,  a  professional   employer
organization, from March 1998 until November 2003, where he also served as Chief
Executive  Officer from March 1998 to April 1999.  Previously,  Mr.  Wajnert was
Chairman of the Board of Directors  from January 1992 until  December  1997, and
Chief Executive  Officer from November 1984 until December 1997, of AT&amp;T Capital
Corporation   (NYSE),  a  commercial   finance  and  leasing  company.   He  was
self-employed from December 1997 to March 1998. Mr. Wajnert serves on the boards
of directors of Reynolds American, Inc. (NYSE) and JLG Industries, Inc. (NYSE).

OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

ROBERT C. GASSER has served as Chief Executive  Officer,  NYFIX Millennium since
October 2001. Mr. Gasser is also President of NYFIX Transaction Services,  since
its  formation  and NASD  approval in May 2002 and  President of NYFIX  Clearing
Corporation,  since its formation and NASD approval in September 2003. From 1999
until  2001,  Mr.  Gasser was Head of US Equity  Trading  for JP  Morgan,  which
included the firm's Nasdaq, Listed, Convertible, and Program Trading businesses.
Mr. Gasser started with JP Morgan in 1987 and held a variety of positions. Also,
during  his  tenure  at  JP  Morgan,  Mr.  Gasser  served  on  various  industry
committees,  including  the Nasdaq  Quality of  Markets  Committee  and the NYSE
Upstairs  Traders  Advisory  Committee.  In  addition,  he  directed  the firm's
investment in NYFIX Millennium and Archipelago,  where he served on the Board of
Managers from 1999 until 2001.  Mr. Gasser holds a Bachelor of Science degree in
Foreign Service from Georgetown University, School of Foreign Service.

JAY D.  SHAFFER  joined us January 1, 2005 as our  Executive  Vice  President  -
Finance and  Administration.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Shaffer  consulted for us
through  Resources  Connection,  Inc. From 1988 to July,  2004,  Mr. Shaffer was
Managing  Director for  Financial  Management  Advisory  Services,  where he was

                                       81

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

involved in various  project  management  roles focusing on risk  assessment and
internal  control.  Mr. Shaffer began his career with Citicorp where he spent 16
years in a variety of financial,  operation and  administrative  positions.  Mr.
Shaffer holds a Masters of Business Administration degree in Information Science
and a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting.

MARK R. HAHN is our Chief Financial  Officer.  He joined us in September 2002 as
Chief Financial Officer and, until June 2003, as Secretary.  Prior to that, from
April 2002 until  September 2002, Mr. Hahn was Vice President and Controller for
Modem Media, Inc., an interactive  marketing and technology  company.  He joined
that firm in January 2002 as a consultant.  From April 1998 until November 2001,
Mr.  Hahn was  with  Metromedia  Fiber  Network  Services,  Inc.,  a  technology
infrastructure  company, as Vice President Finance,  Network Planning &amp; Analysis
from December 1999 until  November 2001 and before that as Corporate  Controller
from  April  1998.  Prior to that,  Mr.  Hahn  was  with V Band  Corporation,  a
technology infrastructure company as Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
Secretary  from August 1995 until April 1998 and before that as Controller  from
November  1994.  Mr. Hahn began his career  with Price  Waterhouse  &amp; Co.  (now,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP) as a certified public accountant.

KEITH R. JAMAITIS has served as President of NYFIX USA, since January 2004. From
January 2002 until December 2003, he was Chief Operating Officer, NYFIX USA. Mr.
Jamaitis joined us in 1997 and has held various positions  including Senior Vice
President of Operations and Vice President of Product Management. Prior to that,
Mr. Jamaitis was a product line manager with Executone  Information  Systems,  a
technology  company and held various  positions in hardware and software systems
development and technical  management in the  telecommunications  industry.  Mr.
Jamaitis holds a Bachelors of Science degree in Electrical  Engineering from the
University of Connecticut.

BRIAN BELLARDO has served as General  Counsel since March 2003. In June 2003, he
assumed the  additional  responsibility  of Secretary.  From November 2000 until
June 2002, Mr. Bellardo was General Counsel for Stockback LLC and thereafter for
a subsidiary  and from March 2000 until October 2000 for Stock Power Inc.,  both
of which are  marketing  companies.  From November 1995 until March 2000, he was
Vice  President  and  Associate  General  Counsel with  Charles  Schwab &amp; Co., a
brokerage firm. Prior to that, Mr. Bellardo was in the Office of General Counsel
of the  Securities &amp; Exchange  Commission  in  Washington,  D.C. from 1990 until
1995.  He was a  litigator  in  private  practice  from  1976  until  1990  with
Pillsbury,  Madison &amp; Sutro in San  Francisco,  CA and from 1975 until 1976 with
Cahill  Gordon &amp; Reindel  in New York  City,  both of which are law  firms.  Mr.
Bellardo,  a Summa Cum  Laude,  Phi Betta  Kappa  graduate  of Yale  University,
received his law degree from Stanford University.

LARS KRAGH has served as Chief  Information  Officer  since July 1999.  Prior to
that, Mr. Kragh was our Executive Vice President of Research and Development and
held other  technology  positions since our inception in 1991.  Prior to joining
us, Mr.  Kragh  developed  network  systems for the banking  industry  involving
numerous  trading  system  integrations  with  global  telecom  and market  data
providers.   Mr.  Kragh  earned  a  Masters  of  Science  degree  in  Electrical
Engineering from the Danish University of Technology.

SECTION 16(A) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE

        Section  16(a)  of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934,  as  amended,
requires our officers and  directors,  and persons who own more than ten percent
of a  registered  class  of our  outstanding  common  stock to file  reports  of
ownership  and changes in ownership on Forms 3, 4 and 5 with the SEC and Nasdaq.
Officers,  directors and greater than ten percent  stockholders  are required by
SEC regulations to furnish us with copies of all Section 16(a) forms they file.

        To our knowledge,  based solely on review of the copies of these reports
furnished  to us and the  written  representations  that no other  reports  were

                                       82

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

required,  during 2004 all Section 16 (a) filing requirements  applicable to our
executive  officers and  directors  were complied with except for the failure to
timely  file on Form 4 one  transaction  each by George O. Deehan and William J.
Lynch for stock  options  granted  in 2000,  which  were not  identified  by the
Company as having been  granted  until the  Company  reviewed  its stock  option
grants in 2005 in connection with its restatement  related to such grants.  This
failure was inadvertent and, when the oversight was discovered, the transactions
were subsequently  reported. In addition,  Peter K. Hansen, George O. Deehan and
William J. Lynch timely filed amended Form 4s to reflect that options previously
reported as having been granted in two  transactions  for Mr.  Hansen and in one
transaction  each for Messrs.  Deehan and Lynch were void  grants.  Mr.  Wajnert
timely  filed an  amended  Form 3 and an amended  Form 4 to  reflect  that stock
options in one  transaction  were  granted on  November  10, 2004 rather than on
October 10, 2004, as previously reported.

CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS

        We have  adopted a Code of Business  Conduct and Ethics that  applies to
all of our employees,  including our principal  executive  officer and principal
financial and accounting officer.  The full text of our Code of Business Conduct
and Ethics is available on our web site at  WWW.NYFIX.COM  under  Company  Info,
Investor Info, Corporate Governance.  We intend to disclose future amendments to
certain  provisions of our Code of Ethics, or waivers of such provisions granted
to executive officers and directors,  on this web site within five business days
following the date of such amendment or waiver.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

        The following table provides  certain  information,  for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively,  concerning compensation awarded
to, earned by or paid to (1) our chief executive  officer ("CEO"),  (2) our four
most highly  compensated  executive officers other than our CEO whose salary and
bonus exceeded $100,000 with respect to the year ended December 31, 2004 and who
were serving as executive officers on December 31, 2004 (collectively the "Named
Executive Officers").

                                       83

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.


                                                                                      OTHER ANNUAL     SECURITIES
                                                                                      COMPENSATION     UNDERLYING
NAME AND PRINCIPAL POSITION               YEAR           SALARY          BONUS             (1)       OPTIONS (SHARES)
- --------------------------------         -------       ---------       ----------     ------------   ----------------

Peter K. Hansen,                          2004*        $ 414,628       $    -         $  6,976           10,000
President and Chief Executive             2003           380,000            -            6,046              -
Officer                                   2002           389,231            -            5,892          100,000

Robert C. Gasser (2),                     2004*          435,385            -             -              10,000
Chief Executive Officer, NYFIX            2003           399,462         100,000          -                 -
Millennium and President, NYFIX           2002           355,897            -             -             100,000
Transaction Services and NYFIX
Clearing

Lars Kragh,                               2004*          272,115             -           8,894           10,000
Chief Information Officer                 2003           244,632             -           7,747              -
                                          2002           218,288             -           6,303           20,000

Mark R. Hahn (3),                         2004*          326,538             -           6,000           10,000
Chief Financial Officer                   2003           297,981             -            -              75,000
                                          2002            60,577             -            -              60,000

Keith R. Jamaitis (4),                    2004*          308,654          30,000         6,000           10,000
President of NYFIX USA                    2003           217,004             -           5,500              -
                                          2002           174,712          72,721         4,456           54,000

* As a result of our  bi-weekly  payroll  process,  there were 27 pay periods in
2004 as compared to 26 pay periods in both 2003 and 2002.

(1)   Includes our Employer 401K discretionary  matching  contribution (see Note
      14 to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements)  and car allowances to Mr.
      Hansen and Mr. Kragh.
(2)   Mr. Gasser has served as Chief Executive  Officer,  NYFIX Millennium,  our
      80%-owned  broker-dealer  subsidiary,  since  October  2001.  He  is  also
      President of NYFIX Transaction Services,  since its formation and the NASD
      approval in May 2002 and President of NYFIX  Clearing  Corporation,  since
      its  formation  and  NASD  approval  in  September   2003.  Mr.   Gasser's
      compensation  for 2002 as stated in the above table  represents the period
      from  February  1,  2002,  when  our  ownership  in NYFIX  Millennium  was
      increased to 80% from 50%, through December 31, 2002.
(3)   Mr. Hahn started with us in September 2002.
(4)   Mr.  Jamaitis  started with us in 1997 and became an Executive  Officer in
      January 2004.

OPTION GRANTS

        The  following  table sets forth  information  regarding  stock  options
granted to the Named Executive Officers during the year ended December 31, 2004.
These grants are also reflected on the Summary Compensation Table above.

                                       84

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

                           NUMBER OF
                          SECURITIES       PERCENTAGE                                    POTENTIAL REALIZABLE VALUE
                          UNDERLYING        OF TOTAL                                      AT ASSUMED ANNUAL RATES
                            STOCK           OPTIONS       EXERCISE                            OF STOCK PRICE
                           OPTIONS         GRANTED TO    PRICE PER         EXPIRATION      APPRECIATION FOR STOCK
     NAME                  GRANTED         EMPLOYEES        SHARE             DATE                OPTIONS
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                5%             10%
                                                                                             -------        --------
Peter K. Hansen             10,000            1.53%          $7.06           2/23/14         44,375         112,454
Robert C. Gasser            10,000            1.53%          $7.06           2/23/14         44,375         112,454
Mark R. Hahn                10,000            1.53%          $7.06           2/23/14         44,375         112,454
Keith R. Jamaitis           10,000            1.53%          $7.06           2/23/14         44,375         112,454
Lars Kragh                  10,000            1.53%          $7.06           2/23/14         44,375         112,454


(1)        The  potential  realizable  value  portion  of  the  foregoing  table
           illustrates  values  that  might be  realized  upon  exercise  of the
           options  immediately prior to the expiration of their term,  assuming
           the specified  compounded  annual rates of appreciation on our common
           stock over the term of the  options.  These  numbers do not take into
           account  provisions of certain  options  providing for termination of
           the    option    following     termination    of    employment    and
           non-transferability, or differences in vesting periods. Regardless of
           the  theoretical  value of an option,  its ultimate value will depend
           upon the market value of our common stock at a future date,  and that
           value will  depend on a variety of  factors,  including  the  overall
           condition  of the stock  market  and our  results of  operations  and
           financial  condition.  There  can be no  assurance  that  the  values
           reflected in this table will be achieved.
(2)        Represents  options to purchase shares of our common stock granted on
           February 23, 2004. Of the options  granted,  3,334 vested on February
           23,  2005  and  3,333  will  vest on each of  February  23,  2006 and
           February 23, 2007.

                                       85

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES AND OPTION VALUES

        The Named Executive  Officers did not exercise any options in the fiscal
year ended  December  31,  2004.  The  following  table sets forth the number of
options held by the Named Executive  Officers at December 31, 2004 and the value
of such options.

                              NUMBER OF SECURITIES       VALUE OF UNEXERCISED IN-THE-
                             UNDERLYING UNEXERCISED       MONEY OPTIONS AT YEAR-END
        NAME                  OPTIONS AT YEAR-END                    (1)
- -------------------          -------------------------   ---------------------------
                                   (E)         (U)            (E)          (U)
                              ----------    ----------    -----------   ------------
Peter K. Hansen                 220,000        30,000     $ 182,000       $ 45,000
Robert C. Gasser                317,500       130,000       182,000         45,000
Mark R. Hahn                     55,000        90,000       101,000        144,000
Keith R. Jamaitis                81,225        14,800        87,000         11,000
Lars Kragh                      322,250        14,000       986,000          9,000

(E)     Exercisable
(U)     Unexercisable
(1)     Options are  "in-the-money" if the market price of a share of our common
        stock on December 31, 2004 exceeded the exercise  price of such options.
        The value of such options is calculated by  determining  the  difference
        between the aggregate  market price of our common stock  underlying  the
        options on December 31, 2004,  and the aggregate  exercise price of such
        options.  The closing  price of a share of our common  stock on December
        31, 2004, as reported on the Nasdaq, was $6.19. In addition, for 281,250
        options granted to Mr. Kragh and 30,000 options granted to Mr. Jamaitis,
        we recorded  compensation expense of $264,600 and $2,800,  respectively,
        as the fair value of our  common  stock on the  measurement  date was in
        excess of the exercise price.

Employment Agreements

        Mr. Hansen serves as our President and Chief Executive  Officer pursuant
to an employment  agreement,  dated June 24, 1991. This agreement was for a term
of five  years  effective  as of January  1, 1991 and  renews  automatically  on
January 1 of each year thereafter as mutually agreed upon. Pursuant to the terms
of the agreement, Mr. Hansen is paid a base salary plus such bonus or additional
compensation  as the board of  directors  or the  compensation  committee  deems
appropriate.  Effective January 1, 2004, the compensation committee of the board
of directors set Mr.  Hansen's base salary at $400,000.  In the event Mr. Hansen
is  terminated  by us for any reason other than a material  breach by him of the
agreement,  he is  entitled  to receive  an amount  equal to four times his then
current base salary and prorated payment of any bonus, cash or stock earned.

        Mr. Gasser serves as the Chief  Executive  Officer of NYFIX  Millennium,
President of NYFIX Transaction Services and President of NYFIX Clearing pursuant
to an employment  agreement,  dated September 21, 2001. This agreement was for a
term of one year commencing October 5, 2001 and renews  automatically on October
5th of each year  thereafter  unless  terminated in accordance with its terms or
unless  either  party  gives  60 days  prior  written  notice  of  intention  to
discontinue the automatic extension. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Mr.
Gasser is paid a base  salary plus a bonus of 2% of NYFIX  Millennium's  pre-tax
earnings and such bonus or additional  compensation as the board of directors or
the compensation  committee deems  appropriate.  Effective  January 1, 2004, the
compensation committee of our board of directors set Mr. Gasser's base salary at


                                       86

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

$420,000 plus a bonus of 2% of NYFIX Millennium's pre-tax earnings. In the event
Mr. Gasser is terminated by us after the one year  anniversary of employment for
any reason  other than a hostile  acquisition,  a material  breach by him of the
agreement, conduct materially injurious to us, NYFIX Millennium, its affiliates,
customers  or  suppliers,  or any act of fraud which would  constitute  a felony
under federal or state law, he is entitled to receive one year of base salary in
one lump sum  payment  and an  immediate  vesting of the  nearest  options to be
vested of a sign-up grant of 225,000 options vesting over a three-year period at
a rate of 75,000 at the end of each of the first three years of  employment.  In
the event NYFIX  Millennium is involved in a hostile  acquisition and should the
acquiring  company  terminate Mr. Gasser's  services,  he is entitled to receive
twice his annual  base and fifty  percent of any  unvested  options  will become
fully vested.  In the event NYFIX Millennium should merge with another non-NYFIX
Inc. owned company or should we divest NYFIX Millennium,  and Mr. Gasser were to
have his employment  terminated  following his second anniversary of employment,
Mr. Gasser is entitled to 100% vesting of a bonus grant of 100,000 options.

        Mr. Hahn serves as our Chief Financial Officer pursuant to an employment
agreement,  dated January 1, 2003. This agreement was for a term of one year and
renews  automatically  on January 1st of each year unless  sooner  terminated in
accordance with its terms.  Pursuant to the terms of the agreement,  Mr. Hahn is
paid a base salary, plus such special bonuses or incentives as determined by us.
Effective January 1, 2004, the compensation  committee of our board of directors
set Mr. Hahn's base salary at $315,000.

        Mr.  Jamaitis serves as President of NYFIX USA pursuant to an employment
agreement, dated October 22, 1997. This agreement was for a term of one year and
renews  automatically  on November  10th of each year  thereafter  unless sooner
terminated  in  accordance  with its terms.  Mr.  Jamaitis  became an  Executive
Officer of the Company in January 2004.  Pursuant to the terms of his employment
agreement,  Mr.  Jamaitis is paid a base salary,  plus such  special  bonuses or
incentives as  determined by us.  Effective  January 1, 2004,  the  compensation
committee of our board of directors set Mr.  Jamaitis'  base salary at $300,000.
In addition,  on May 28, 2004, Mr. Jamaitis signed a non-compete  agreement with
us  that  extends  for  the  term of his  employment  with  us and for one  year
thereafter.  Under the terms of this agreement, in consideration of $30,000, Mr.
Jamaitis  is  prohibited,   without  our  prior  approval,  from  entering  into
employment  with  specified  organizations,  unless he is terminated for reasons
other than Cause, as defined in the agreement.

        Mr.  Kragh  serves  as our  Chief  Information  Officer  pursuant  to an
employment  agreement,  dated January 1, 2003.  This agreement was for a term of
one year and renews  automatically  on January 1 of each year thereafter  unless
either party gives 90 days prior written  notice of its intention to discontinue
the automatic  extension.  Pursuant to the terms of the agreement,  Mr. Kragh is
paid a base salary of plus such special  bonuses or  incentives as determined by
us.  Effective  January  1, 2004,  the  compensation  committee  of our board of
directors set Mr. Kragh's base salary at $262,500.

DIRECTORS' COMPENSATION

        As part of their  compensation  for  services as members of the Board of
Directors,  non-employee  directors  receive  options to purchase  shares of our
common stock.  Beginning in 2004, we adopted a policy that the exercise price on
such options granted after the adoption of the policy would equal the average of
the closing  price of our common  stock for the five  trading  days prior to the
date of grant. Also beginning in 2004,  non-employee  directors have received an
annual stipend of $25,000, which is paid quarterly.  In 2004, as is our practice
when a new director joins the Board of Directors, we granted options to one, new
non-employee director. These options (exercisable into an aggregate of 70,000

                                       87

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

shares of our  common  stock at an  exercise  price of $6.03 per share  when the
average of the closing price of our common stock for the five trading days prior
to the date of grant was $5.73) vest on various  dates in 2005 through  2007, so
long as the director  completes  service  through the vesting date. In addition,
for the options granted to Mr.  Jennings,  we recorded  compensation  expense of
$110,000 as the fair value of our common  stock on the  measurement  date was in
excess  of  the  exercise  price.  Non-employee  directors  are  reimbursed  for
reasonable  expenses in  connection  with  serving as a director and member of a
committee.

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION

        All of our  outside  directors  serve  as  members  of the  Compensation
Committee. Compensation of all executive officers is determined by a majority of
the independent directors. None of our executive officers or directors serves as
a member  of the  Board of  Directors  or  Compensation  Committee  of any other
company that has one or more executive officers or directors serving as a member
of our Board of Directors or Compensation Committee.

                                       88

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

ITEM 12. SECURITY  OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN  BENEFICIAL  OWNERS AND  MANAGEMENT  AND
         RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The following table sets forth information  concerning  beneficial  ownership of
our common  stock,  as of May 31, 2005, by (1) each person known by us to be the
beneficial owner of more than five percent of our outstanding  common stock, (2)
each director,  (3) each of our Named  Executive  Officers and (4) all directors
and executive officers as a group. Unless otherwise  indicated,  we believe that
each stockholder has sole voting power and sole  dispositive  power with respect
to the common stock beneficially

      NAME AND ADDRESS OF                  NUMBER OF SHARES           PERCENTAGE OF SHARES
      BENEFICIAL OWNER (1)               BENEFICIALLY OWNED (2)        BENEFICIALLY OWNED
- ---------------------------              ----------------------       --------------------

Carl E. Warden                               2,050,990(3)                     6.3%

Peter Kilbinger Hansen                       1,594,122(4)                     4.9%

Lars Kragh                                     703,709(5)                     2.1%

Robert C. Gasser                               375,834(6)                     1.1%

Keith R. Jamaitis                              107,439(7)                      *

George O. Deehan                               121,500(8)                      *

William J. Lynch                               116,500(9)                      *

Mark R. Hahn                                    83,334(10)                     *

William C. Jennings                             42,000(11)                     *

Thomas C. Wajnert                               25,000(12)                     *

All executive officers and directors as a                                     9.4%
  group (11 persons) (13)                    3,189,439(13)

- ---------------

* Less than 1%

  (1)    Unless  otherwise  indicated  the  address  of  each  director,  former
         director or executive officer is c/o NYFIX, Inc., Stamford Harbor Park,
         333 Ludlow Street, Stamford, Connecticut 06902.
  (2)    Beneficial  ownership is based on 32,442,431 shares of our common stock
         outstanding  as of May 31, 2005.  Shares of our common  stock  issuable
         upon  exercise of options or other rights  beneficially  owned that are
         exercisable  within 60 days are deemed  outstanding  for the purpose of
         computing  the   percentage   ownership  of  the  person  holding  such
         securities and rights but are not deemed  outstanding for computing the
         percentage ownership of any other person.

                                       89

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

  (3)    Based on a Schedule 13D filed in April 2005 by Carl E. Warden. Includes
         (i) 100,000 shares held by the Carl and Vicki Warden Family  Foundation
         (the  "Foundation"),  of which Mr.  Warden is a trustee,  (ii)  359,718
         shares  held in a  multi-generational  trust  (the  "Trust")  and (iii)
         60,000  shares for which Mr. Warden has a power of attorney (the "Power
         of  Attorney  Shares"),  which  enables him to vote and dispose of such
         shares. Mr. Warden disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares held by
         the Foundation  and the Trust as well as the Power of Attorney  Shares.
         Does not include  1,599,165 shares held by certain adult members of Mr.
         Warden's family and their  children.  Does not include 45,000 shares of
         our common  stock  issuable  upon  exercise  of options  that have been
         determined  to be void  because  the  stock  options  were not  validly
         granted, as described in our restatement for stock option grants.
  (4)    Includes  223,334  shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of
         currently  exercisable  options.  Does not include 26,666 shares of our
         common stock  issuable  upon exercise of options that are not currently
         exercisable.  Does not  include  1,225,625  shares of our common  stock
         issuable upon exercise of options that have been  determined to be void
         because the stock options were not validly granted, as described in our
         restatement for stock option grants.
  (5)    Includes  325,584  shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of
         currently exercisable options. Includes 281,250 of options for which we
         recognized $264,600 of compensation  expense for the intrinsic value of
         such  options.  Does not  include  10,666  shares of our  common  stock
         issuable upon exercise of options that are not currently exercisable.
  (6)    Includes  320,834  shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of
         currently  exercisable options.  Does not include 126,666 shares of our
         common stock  issuable  upon exercise of options that are not currently
         exercisable.
  (7)    Includes  84,559  shares of our common stock  issuable upon exercise of
         currently exercisable options.  Includes 30,000 of options for which we
         recognized  $2,800 of  compensation  expense for the intrinsic value of
         such  options.  Does not  include  11,466  shares of our  common  stock
         issuable upon exercise of options that are not currently exercisable.
  (8)    Includes  116,500  shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of
         currently  exercisable  options,  of which 67,500  shares of our common
         stock  issuable  upon  exercise,  at a price of $36.00 per share,  were
         granted when the director  started with us, but were not  identified by
         us as  having been  granted until we reviewed  our  stock option grants
         in connection  with the  restatement  related to such grants.  Does not
         include  30,000  shares of our common stock  issuable  upon exercise of
         options that have been  determined  to be void because the options were
         not validly  granted,  as described in our restatement for stock option
         grants.
  (9)    Includes  116,500  shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of
         currently  exercisable  options,  of which 67,500  shares of our common
         stock  issuable  upon  exercise,  at a price of $38.44 per share,  were
         granted when the director  started with us, but were not  identified by
         us as having been granted  until we reviewed our stock option grants in
         connection  with  the  restatement  related  to such  grants.  Does not
         include  30,000  shares of our common stock  issuable  upon exercise of
         options that have been  determined to be void because the stock options
         were not validly  granted,  as described in our  restatement  for stock
         option grants.
  (10)   Includes  83,334  shares of our common stock  issuable upon exercise of
         currently  exercisable  options.  Does not include 61,666 shares of our
         common stock  issuable  upon exercise of options that are not currently
         exercisable.
  (11)   Includes  40,000  shares of our common stock  issuable upon exercise of
         currently  exercisable  options.  Does not include 20,000 shares of our
         common stock  issuable  upon exercise of options that are not currently
         exercisable.  In  connection  with  these  options,  we will  recognize
         $110,000  of  compensation  expense  for the  intrinsic  value  of such
         options over their three-year vesting period.
  (12)   Includes  25,000  shares of our common stock  issuable upon exercise of
         currently  exercisable  options.  Does not include 45,000 shares of our
         common stock  issuable  upon exercise of options that are not currently
         exercisable.

                                       90

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

  (13)   Includes 1,265,646 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of
         currently  exercisable options.  Does not include 407,129 shares of our
         common stock  issuable  upon exercise of options that are not currently
         exercisable.  Does not  include  1,330,625  shares of our common  stock
         issuable upon exercise of options that have been  determined to be void
         because the stock options were not validly granted, as described in our
         restatement for stock option grants.

        Information  regarding  securities  authorized  for  issuance  under our
equity  compensation plans is set forth in Part II, Item 5 of this report and is
incorporated by reference in this section.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

        The Initial  Partners  and the New Partners of NYFIX  Millennium  are or
have been our customers.

        We had a note  receivable  of $70,000,  plus  accrued  interest,  from a
former officer in connection  with his exercise of options for our common stock,
with an annual  interest  rate of 5.5%,  and a maturity date of May 13, 2004. In
addition,  we had a note receivable of $300,000,  plus accrued interest from the
same former  officer,  with an annual interest rate of 5.5%, and a maturity date
of July 2, 2004.

        On July 27, 2004,  we received  notes from a former  officer for $76,000
and $318,000 to replace the notes that matured on May 13, 2004 and July 2, 2004,
respectively.  Both new notes mature on July 27, 2006,  accrue interest annually
at 4.0%, may be prepaid at any time without  penalty and are  collateralized  by
assets in a brokerage account of the former officer,  which primarily consist of
shares of our common  stock.  In a  separate  transaction,  the  former  officer
received an unsecured loan from an individual who was one of our directors until
October 2004.  The proceeds from the loan were used to exercise stock options to
purchase our common  stock,  which is included in the  collateral,  and to repay
principal of $23,000 due on the new notes.

        On July 10, 2002, Keith R. Jamaitis, then the Chief Operating Officer of
NYFIX USA, issued us a promissory note in the principal amount of $71,000.  Such
note bore  interest  at 5.5% per annum and was  scheduled  to mature on July 10,
2004. The note was paid in full by Mr. Jamaitis on May 27, 2004.

        On November 23, 2003, Mr. Jamaitis,  then the Chief Operating Officer of
NYFIX USA, issued to the NYFIX,  Inc. 401(k) Plan (the "Plan") a promissory note
in the principal  amount of $30,000 secured by a portion of Mr. Jamaitis' vested
account  balance  in the Plan.  Such note bears  interest  at 5.0% per annum and
matures on December 12, 2008.  The  outstanding  balance of the note,  including
principal and interest, was $23,000 at March 31, 2005.

        Mr. Jamaitis was named  President of NYFIX USA and an executive  officer
of our company in January 2004.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

        Our independent  registered  public accounting firm is Deloitte &amp; Touche
LLP and has served in this role since the year ended December 31, 2000. In 2001,
Deloitte  &amp; Touche  LLP  audited  our  financial  statements  for the year ended
December 31, 1999.

AUDIT FEES

        The  aggregate  fees for  professional  services  rendered by Deloitte &amp;
Touche LLP in  connection  with its audit of our annual  consolidated  financial
statements and reviews of the interim consolidated financial statements included
in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q were  approximately  $643,000 and $328,000
for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

                                       91

<PAGE>



AUDIT-RELATED FEES

        In addition to fees  disclosed  under "Audit Fees" above,  the aggregate
fees for professional  services  rendered by Deloitte &amp; Touche LLP for assurance
and related services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit
and reviews of our consolidated  financial  statements were $58,000 and $143,000
for the years ended  December  31, 2004 and 2003,  respectively.  Such  services
included accounting  consultations,  consents, the audit of our employee benefit
plan and services related to Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance.

TAX FEES

        The  aggregate  fees for  professional  services  rendered by Deloitte &amp;
Touche  LLP for tax  compliance,  tax  planning,  tax advice  and  research  and
development  tax studies for our US and foreign  subsidiaries  were $285,000 and
$369,000 for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

ALL OTHER FEES

        The  aggregate  fees for  professional  services  rendered by Deloitte &amp;
Touche LLP for all other  fees,  including  services  related to the SEC Comment
Letter in connection with the restatement of our 1999 through 2002  consolidated
financial  statements in May 2004, advisory services provided in connection with
our equity  plans and audits in  connection  with  acquisitions  for 2003,  were
$314,000  and  $26,000  for  the  years  ended   December  31,  2004  and  2003,
respectively.


AUDIT COMMITTEE PRE-APPROVAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

        The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors  pre-approves on an annual
basis the audit, audit-related,  tax and other non-audit services to be rendered
by our accountants based on historical information and anticipated  requirements
for the following fiscal year. The Audit Committee  pre-approves  specific types
or categories of engagements  constituting audit,  audit-related,  tax and other
non-audit  services  as well as the range of fee amounts  corresponding  to each
such engagement.  To the extent that our management  believes that a new service
or the expansion of a current  service  provided by our accountants is necessary
or desirable, such new or expanded services are presented to the Audit Committee
for its review and approval,  or to an Audit Committee  member by delegation who
reports any such review and approval to the Audit Committee at its next meeting,
prior  to  our   engagement  of  our   accountants   to  render  such  services.
Audit-related fees,  relating to our employee benefit plan,  aggregating $15,000
and  $13,000,  were  approved by the Audit  Committee,  rather than being waived
pursuant to Rule 2-01, paragraph  (c)(7)(i)(C) of SEC Regulation S-X, during the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

                                       92

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(A) DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT

      (1) Consolidated Financial Statements

              See index to Consolidated Financial Statements on Page F-1.

      (2) Financial Statement Schedules

              Schedule II - Valuation and  Qualifying  Accounts - see Note 17 to
      the Consolidated Financial Statements.

              Other financial  statement  schedules are omitted because they are
      not required,  inapplicable  or the required  information  is shown in the
      consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

      (3) Exhibits

           3.1       Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation  of the Registrant.
                     Incorporated  herein by  reference  from  Appendix B to the
                     Registrant's Proxy Statement filed September 3, 2003.

           3.2       Amended By-Laws of the Registrant.  Incorporated  herein by
                     reference  from  Appendix  C  to  the  Registrant's   Proxy
                     Statement filed September 3, 2003.

           4.1       Rights Agreement between Chase Mellon Shareholder Services,
                     L.L.C.  (now  known as Mellon  Investor  Services)  and the
                     Registrant dated September 1, 1997.  Incorporated herein by
                     reference from Exhibit 2 to the  Registrant's  registration
                     statement on Form 8-A12B filed September 10, 1997.

           4.2       First  Amendment to Rights  Agreement  between Chase Mellon
                     Shareholder Services,  L.L.C. (now known as Mellon Investor
                     Services)  and  the  Registrant  dated  October  25,  1999.
                     Incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit 3 to the
                     Registrant's  registration statement on Form 8-A12B/A filed
                     November 3, 1999.

          10.1       Limited  Liability  Company  Operating  Agreement  of NYFIX
                     Millennium,  L.L.C.  Incorporated  herein by reference from
                     Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                     for the year ended December 31, 1999.

          10.2       Amendments  to  Operating  Agreement  of NYFIX  Millennium,
                     L.L.C.  as of  November  1,  2000.  Incorporated  herein by
                     reference  from  Exhibit  2.2 to the  Registrant's  Current
                     Report on Form 8-K/A filed April 17, 2002.

          10.3       Agreement   and  Plan  of  Merger  among  the   Registrant,
                     NYOlympus, Inc. and Javelin Technologies, Inc., dated as of
                     March  12,  2002.  Incorporated  herein by  reference  from
                     Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's  Current Report on Form 8-K
                     filed April 15, 2002 ("Javelin 8-K").

          10.4       Amendment  No. 1 to Agreement  and Plan of Merger among the
                     Registrant, NYOlympus, Inc. and Javelin Technologies, Inc.,
                     dated  as  of  March  20,  2002.   Incorporated  herein  by
                     reference from Exhibit 2.2 of Javelin 8-K.

                                       93

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

          10.5       Amendment  No. 2 to Agreement  and Plan of Merger among the
                     Registrant, NYOlympus, Inc. and Javelin Technologies, Inc.,
                     dated  as  of  March  26,  2002.   Incorporated  herein  by
                     reference from Exhibit 2.3 of Javelin 8-K.

          10.6       Employment  Agreement  between  Peter  K.  Hansen  and  the
                     Registrant  dated  June 24,  1991.  Incorporated  herein by
                     reference  from Exhibit 3.2 of  Registrant's  Form 10 filed
                     March 5, 1993.

          10.7       Amended and Restated  1991  Incentive  Stock Option Plan of
                     NYFIX, Inc.  Incorporated  herein by reference from Exhibit
                     10.3 to the  Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for
                     the year ended December 31, 1996.

          10.8       Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated 1991  Incentive and
                     Nonqualified  Stock  Option  Plan.  Incorporated  herein by
                     reference  from  Exhibit  10.4 to the  Registrant's  Annual
                     Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,  2000
                     ("2000 10-K").

          10.9       Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated 1991  Incentive and
                     Nonqualified  Stock  Option  Plan.  Incorporated  herein by
                     reference from Exhibit 10.5 to 2000 10-K.

          10.10      NYFIX, Inc. 2001 Stock Option Plan.  Incorporated herein by
                     reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly
                     Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2001.

          10.11      Amendment  No. 1 to NYFIX,  Inc.  2001 Stock  Option  Plan.
                     Incorporated  herein by reference from Exhibit 10.11 to the
                     Registrant's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                     December 31, 2002 ("2002 10-K").

          10.12      Subordinated  Loan  Agreement  for  Equity  Capital,  dated
                     October  30,  2001,   between  the   Registrant  and  NYFIX
                     Millennium,  L.L.C.  Incorporated  herein by reference from
                     Exhibit 10.1 to the  Registrant's  Form 8-K filed  February
                     14, 2002.

          10.13      Purchase  Agreement,  dated as of October 2, 2002,  between
                     Edward   Brandman,   Daniel  Ryan,  Ken  DeGiglio  and  the
                     Registrant.  Incorporated  herein by reference from Exhibit
                     10.13 to 2002 10-K.

          10.14      Convertible   Secured   Promissory  Note  from  Renaissance
                     Trading  Technologies,  LLC to the Registrant,  dated as of
                     October 2, 2002, in the  principal  amount of $1.5 million.
                     Incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10.14 to 2002
                     10-K.

          10.15      Amended and Restated Limited  Liability  Company  Operating
                     Agreement  of  Renaissance   Trading   Technologies,   LLC.
                     Incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to 2002
                     10-K.

          10.16      Employment  Agreement between Lars Kragh and the Registrant
                     dated  January 1, 2003.  Incorporated  herein by  reference
                     from Exhibit 10.16 to 2002 10-K.

          10.17      Employment   Agreement   between   Mark  R.  Hahn  and  the
                     Registrant  dated January 1, 2003.  Incorporated  herein by
                     reference from Exhibit 10.17 to 2002 10-K.

          10.18      Employment  Agreement  between  Robert  C.  Gasser  and the
                     Registrant dated September 21, 2001. Incorporated herein by
                     reference from Exhibit 10.18 to 2002 10-K.

                                       94

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

          10.19      Secured   Promissory   Note   from   Renaissance    Trading
                     Technologies,  LLC to the Registrant, dated as of March 12,
                     2003, in the principal amount of $1.0 million. Incorporated
                     herein by reference  from Exhibit 10.1 to the  Registrant's
                     Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the period  ended  March
                     31, 2003.

          10.20      Form of Agreement and Plan of Merger between NYFIX, Inc., a
                     New   York   Corporation,   and   NYFIX   (Delaware)   Inc.
                     Incorporated  herein by  reference  from  Appendix A to the
                     Registrant's Proxy Statement filed September 3, 2003.

          10.21      Form  of  Option  to  Purchase  Common  Stock  of  EuroLink
                     Network, Inc. Incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit
                     10.1 to the Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                     the period ended September 30, 2003.

          10.22      Purchase Agreement,  dated as of September 26, 2003, by and
                     between  the  Registrant  and the  sellers  of  Renaissance
                     Trading Technologies, LLC. Incorporated herein by reference
                     from Exhibit 10.2 to the  Registrant's  Quarterly Report on
                     Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2003.

          10.23      Employment   Agreement   between  Brian  Bellardo  and  the
                     Registrant  dated March 21,  2003.  Incorporated  herein by
                     reference  from Exhibit  10.11 to the  Registrant's  Annual
                     Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,  2003
                     ("2003 10-K").

          10.24      Business  Continuity   Services  Master  Agreement,   dated
                     October 15, 1997,  between Comdisco,  Inc.  (Predecessor to
                     Sungard) and Trinitech Systems, Inc. (Predecessor to NYFIX,
                     Inc.).  Incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10.11
                     to the Registrant's 2003 10-K.

          10.25      Advanced  Recovery (AR) Schedule,  dated February 15, 2000,
                     to the Master  Agreement  dated  October 15,  1997  between
                     Comdisco,  Inc.  (Predecessor  to Sungard) and NYFIX,  Inc.
                     listing additional  equipment and extending the term of the
                     agreement through February 15, 2005. Incorporated herein by
                     reference from Exhibit 10.11 to the Registrant's 2003 10-K.

          10.26      Addendum to Advanced Recovery (AR) Schedule, dated February
                     15, 2000,  to the Master  Agreement  dated October 15, 1997
                     between Sungard Recovery  Services LP and NYFIX Millennium,
                     LLC,  dated  December 31, 2003,  extending  the term of the
                     agreement  through  February  14,  2009  and  changing  the
                     monthly Subscription Fees. Incorporated herein by reference
                     from Exhibit 10.11 to the Registrant's 2003 10-K.

          10.27      Amendment No. 1, dated  November 4, 2004, to the Employment
                     Agreement  between Peter K. Hansen and the Registrant dated
                     June  24,  1991.  Incorporated  herein  by  reference  from
                     Exhibit 10.1 of Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                     for the period ended September 30, 2004.

          10.28      Employment  Agreement  between  Keith R.  Jamaitis  and the
                     Registrant dated October 27, 1999.  Incorporated  herein by
                     reference  from  Exhibit  10.1  of  Registrant's  Quarterly
                     Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2004.

          10.29      Employment   Agreement  between  Jay  D.  Shaffer  and  the
                     Registrant  dated January 1, 2005.  Incorporated  herein by
                     reference from Exhibit 99.1 of Registrant's  Current Report
                     on Form 8-K filed on January 6, 2005.

                                       95

<PAGE>

                                  NYFIX, INC.

          10.30      Purchase Agreement, dated December 30, 2004, by and between
                     the Registrant and Whitebox Convertible  Arbitrage Partners
                     L.P.  ("Whitebox")  incorporated  herein by reference  from
                     Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
                     filed on January 5, 2005.

          10.31      Convertible  Promissory  Note,  dated December 30, 2004, by
                     and between the Registrant and Whitebox incorporated herein
                     by reference from Exhibit 99.3 to the Registrant's  Current
                     Report on Form 8-K filed on January 5, 2005.

          10.32      Registration Rights Agreement,  dated December 30, 2004, by
                     and between Registrant and Whitebox.

          10.33      Agreement,  dated  March  30,  2005,  by  and  between  the
                     Registrant  and Whitebox  extending the Election  Period on
                     the Convertible Promissory Note.

          10.34      Agreement  to  Amend   Convertible   Promissory   Note  and
                     Registration Rights Agreement and to Waive Breaches,  dated
                     June 24, 2005, by and among the Registrant and Whitebox.

          21.1       Subsidiaries of the Registrant

          23.1       Consent of Deloitte &amp; Touche LLP

          24         Power of Attorney (see signature page)

          31.1       Certification  of Chief Executive  Officer pursuant to Rule
                     13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act
                     of 1934, as amended ("the Exchange Act").

          31.2       Certification  of Chief Financial  Officer pursuant to Rule
                     13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Exchange Act.

          32.1       Certification  of Chief Executive  Officer pursuant to Rule
                     13a-14(b)  and Rule  15d-14(b)  of the  Exchange Act and 18
                     U.S.C. 1350.

          32.2       Certification  of Chief Financial  Officer pursuant to Rule
                     13a-14(b)  and Rule  15d-14(b)  of the  Exchange Act and 18
                     U.S.C. 1350.


(b) EXHIBITS

    See Item 15(a)3.

(c) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

    See Item 15(a)2.

                                       96

<PAGE>



                                   SIGNATURES


        Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934,  the  Registrant  has caused this report to be signed this
28th  day  of  June  2005  on its  behalf  by the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly
authorized.

                                       NYFIX, INC.

                                       By: /s/ Peter Kilbinger Hansen
                                           ------------------------------
                                           Peter Kilbinger Hansen
                                           Chairman of the Board
                                              and President
                                           (Chief Executive Officer)


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

        NYFIX,  Inc.  and  each  of the  undersigned  do  hereby  appoint  Peter
Kilbinger  Hansen and Mark R. Hahn, and each of them severally,  its or his true
and lawful attorney to execute on behalf of NYFIX,  Inc. and the undersigned any
and all  amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and to file the same with
all exhibits  thereto and other  documents  in  connection  therewith,  with the
Securities and Exchange Commission;  each of such attorneys shall have the power
to act hereunder with or without the other.

        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated have signed this report below.


/S/ PETER KILBINGER HANSEN         Chairman of the Board and President             June 28, 2005
- --------------------------         (Principal Executive Officer)
Peter Kilbinger Hansen

/S/ MARK R. HAHN                   Chief Financial Officer                         June 28, 2005
- ----------------                   (Principal Financial Officer and
Mark R. Hahn                       Principal Accounting Officer)

/S/ GEORGE O. DEEHAN               Director                                        June 28, 2005
- --------------------
George O. Deehan

/S/ WILLIAM C. JENNINGS            Director                                        June 28, 2005
- -----------------------
William C. Jennings

/S/ WILLIAM J. LYNCH               Director                                        June 28, 2005
- --------------------
William J. Lynch

/S/ THOMAS C. WAJNERT              Director                                        June 28, 2005
- ---------------------
Thomas C. Wajnert

                                       97

<PAGE>

xx
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


                                                                            PAGE

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.................    F-2

Consolidated Financial Statements:

   Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2004 and 2003 (As Restated). F-3

   Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended
        December 31, 2004, 2003 (As Restated) and 2002 (As Restated)........F-4

   Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive
        Loss for the Years Ended December 31, 2004, 2003 (As
        Restated) and 2002 (As Restated)....................................F-5

   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
        December 31, 2004, 2003 (As Restated) and 2002
        (As Restated).......................................................F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................................F-7



                                      F-1



<PAGE>



             REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM




The Board of Directors and
Stockholders of NYFIX, Inc.:


        We have audited the accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of NYFIX,
Inc. and subsidiaries  (the "Company") as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the
related  consolidated   statements  of  operations,   stockholders'  equity  and
comprehensive  loss,  and cash  flows for each of the three  years in the period
ended  December  31,  2004.  These  consolidated  financial  statements  are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

        We  conducted  our audits in  accordance  with  standards  of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance about whether the
consolidated  financial statements are free of material  misstatement.  An audit
includes  examining,  on a test  basis,  evidence  supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures in the  consolidated  financial  statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management as well as evaluating the overall financial  statement  presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

        In our opinion,  such consolidated  financial statements present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of NYFIX, Inc. and subsidiaries
as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their  operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended  December 31, 2004 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.

        As discussed in Note 2 to the  consolidated  financial  statements,  the
accompanying  consolidated  financial statements as of December 31, 2003 and for
the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 have been restated.

        We have also  audited,  in  accordance  with the standards of the Public
Company  Accounting  Oversight Board (United States),  the  effectiveness of the
Company's  internal  control over  financial  reporting as of December 31, 2004,
based on the  criteria  established  in INTERNAL  CONTROL--INTEGRATED  FRAMEWORK
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring  Organizations of the Treadway  Commission
and our  report  dated  June  28,  2005  expressed  an  unqualified  opinion  on
management's  assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's  internal control
over  financial  reporting and an adverse  opinion on the  effectiveness  of the
Company's  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  because  of a material
weakness.


DELOITTE &amp; TOUCHE LLP

Stamford, Connecticut
June 28, 2005

                                      F-2

<PAGE>


                          NYFIX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
               (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

                                                                                          DECEMBER 31,
                                                                                  -----------------------------
                                                                                     2004             2003
                                                                                  -----------    --------------
                                                                                                 (AS RESTATED
                                                                                                 - SEE NOTE 2)
ASSETS
Current assets:
   Cash and cash equivalents                                                      $  22,405      $  21,006
   Short-term investments                                                             4,466          3,448
   Accounts receivable, less allowances of $2,107 and $1,839, respectively           13,405         10,371
   Securities borrowed                                                              138,456          1,945
   Deferred income taxes                                                               --              976
   Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                          3,941          3,929
                                                                                  ---------      ---------
     Total current assets                                                           182,673         41,675
Property and equipment, net                                                          16,649         16,592
Goodwill                                                                             62,519         60,904
Acquired intangible assets, net                                                       8,346         10,235
Investment in unconsolidated affiliate                                                 --            3,088
Notes receivable and other amounts due from unconsolidated affiliate                   --              814
Deferred income taxes                                                                  --           16,098
Other assets, net                                                                    10,904          7,378
                                                                                  ---------      ---------
     Total assets                                                                 $ 281,091      $ 156,784
                                                                                  =========      =========

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
   Accounts payable                                                               $  10,639      $   6,664
   Accrued expenses                                                                   7,579          5,442
   Securities loaned                                                                138,375          1,700
   Current portion of capital lease obligations                                         510            531
   Current portion of long-term debt and other liabilities                            1,731          1,894
   Deferred revenue                                                                   2,994          2,732
                                                                                  ---------      ---------
     Total current liabilities                                                      161,828         18,963
Long-term portion of capital lease obligations                                          896            135
Long-term debt and other liabilities                                                 11,625          1,137
                                                                                  ---------      ---------
     Total liabilities                                                              174,349         20,235
                                                                                  ---------      ---------
Commitments and contingencies (See Notes)
Stockholders' equity:
   Preferred stock, $1.00 par value; 5,000,000 shares authorized; none issued          --             --
   Common stock, $0.001 par value; 60,000,000 shares authorized;                         34             33
     33,752,860 shares and 33,222,475 shares issued, respectively
   Additional paid-in capital                                                       201,635        199,141
   Accumulated deficit                                                              (75,773)       (43,071)
   Treasury stock, 1,327,230 and 1,361,300 shares, respectively, at cost            (18,992)       (19,480)
   Notes receivable issued for common stock                                             (67)           (74)
   Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                                 (95)          --
                                                                                  ---------      ---------
     Total stockholders' equity                                                     106,742        136,549
                                                                                  ---------      ---------
     Total liabilities and stockholders' equity                                   $ 281,091      $ 156,784
                                                                                  =========      =========

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
of these statements.

                                      F-3


<PAGE>


                          NYFIX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

                                                            YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                  -----------------------------------------
                                                     2004          2003           2002
                                                  ----------    ----------     ------------
                                                                (AS RESTATED - SEE NOTE 2)

REVENUE:
   Subscription                                    $ 40,891      $ 34,852      $ 31,715
   Capital sale                                       8,929         8,955         8,517
   Service contract                                  10,528         9,370         8,471
   Transaction                                       14,787        12,732         7,109
                                                   --------      --------      --------
     Total revenue                                   75,135        65,909        55,812
                                                   --------      --------      --------

COST OF REVENUE:
   Subscription                                      23,692        20,419        16,106
   Capital sale                                       3,601         3,068         2,958
   Service contract                                   3,855         2,897         2,412
   Transaction                                       10,182         8,283         6,946
                                                   --------      --------      --------
     Total cost of revenue                           41,330        34,667        28,422
                                                   --------      --------      --------

GROSS PROFIT:
   Subscription                                      17,199        14,433        15,609
   Capital sale                                       5,328         5,887         5,559
   Service contract                                   6,673         6,473         6,059
   Transaction                                        4,605         4,449           163
                                                   --------      --------      --------
     Total gross profit                              33,805        31,242        27,390
                                                   --------      --------      --------

OPERATING EXPENSE:
   Selling, general and administrative               40,829        36,394        32,240
   Restructuring charge                               2,527          --            --
   Research and development                             959         1,367         1,488
   Equity in loss of unconsolidated affiliates           74           832         2,010
   Depreciation and amortization                      2,304         2,649         3,274
                                                   --------      --------      --------
     Total operating expense                         46,693        41,242        39,012
                                                   --------      --------      --------
Loss from operations                                (12,888)      (10,000)      (11,622)

Interest expense                                       (794)         (157)         (294)
Investment income                                       141           597           628
Other income (expense), net                             (98)           74            (9)
                                                   --------      --------      --------
Loss before income tax provision (benefit)          (13,639)       (9,486)      (11,297)
Income tax provision (benefit)                       19,063        (4,571)       (4,290)
                                                   --------      --------      --------
Net loss                                           $(32,702)     $ (4,915)     $ (7,007)
                                                   ========      ========      ========

Basic and diluted loss per common share            $  (1.02)     $  (0.16)     $  (0.23)
                                                   ========      ========      ========
Basic and diluted weighted average common
   shares outstanding                                32,214        31,462        30,126
                                                   ========      ========      ========

        The  accompanying  notes to  consolidated  financial  statements  are an
integral part of these statements.

                                      F-4


<PAGE>

                                                NYFIX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
                                (AS RESTATED FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 AND 2002)

                                            (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AMOUNTS)

                                                              COMMON STOCK ISSUED        ADDITIONAL
                                                        -----------------------------       PAID             ACCUMULTED
                                                           SHARES          PAR VALUE     IN CAPITAL            DEFICIT
                                                        ------------      -----------    ------------      ------------
Balance January 1, 2002, as previously reported           28,869,800      $        29     $   127,969      $   (21,352)
Prior period adjustments (as restated, see Note 2)              --               --            13,568           (9,797)
                                                         -----------      -----------     -----------      -----------
Balance January 1, 2002 (as restated, see Note 2)         28,869,800               29         141,537          (31,149)
Comprehensive loss:
   Net loss (as restated, see Note 2)                           --               --              --             (7,007)
   Net unrealized gain on available-for-sale
      securities                                                --               --              --               --
   Total comprehensive loss (as restated, see Note 2)

Exercise of stock options                                    169,612             --               477             --
Issuance of common stock                                   3,381,146                3          50,272             --
Compensation expense related to stock option
   grants, (as restated, see Note 2)                            --               --             2,554             --
Effect of exercise/cancellation of stock options (as
   restated, see Note 2)                                        --               --              (442)            --
Repayment of notes issued for purchase of
   common stock                                                 --               --              --               --
Interest accrued on notes for common stock,
   net of payments                                              --               --              --               --
Tax benefit from exercise of stock options (as
   restated, see Note 2)                                        --               --               140             --
                                                         -----------      -----------     -----------      -----------
Balance December 31, 2002 (as restated, see Note 2)       32,420,558               32         194,538          (38,156)
Comprehensive loss:                                             --
   Net loss (as restated, see Note 2)                           --               --              --             (4,915)
   Reversal of net unrealized gain on
      available-for-sale securities                             --               --              --               --
   Total comprehensive loss (as restated, see Note 2)

Exercise of stock options                                    279,978             --               838             --
Issuance of common stock                                     521,939                1           3,031             --
Compensation expense related to stock option
   grants, (as restated, see Note 2)                            --               --               701             --
Effect of exercise/cancellation of stock options (as
   restated, see Note 2)                                        --               --              (166)            --
Repayment of notes issued for purchase of
   common stock                                                 --               --              --               --
Interest paid on notes for common stock,
   net of accruals                                              --               --              --               --
Acquisition of common stock (60,000 shares)                     --               --              --               --
Tax benefit from exercise of stock options (as
   restated, see Note 2)                                        --               --               199             --
                                                         -----------      -----------     -----------      -----------
Balance December 31, 2003 (as restated, see Note 2)       33,222,475               33         199,141          (43,071)
Comprehensive loss:
   Net loss                                                     --               --              --            (32,702)
   Foreign currency translation adjustment                      --               --              --               --
   Total comprehensive loss

Exercise of stock options                                    103,211             --               396             --
Issuance of common stock and common stock from
   treasury (34,070 shares)                                  427,174                1           1,853             --
Compensation expense related to stock option grants             --               --               247             --
Effect of exercise/cancellation of stock options                --               --                (2)            --
Repayment of notes issued for purchase of
   common stock                                                 --               --              --               --
Interest accrued on notes for common stock,
   net of payments                                              --               --              --               --
                                                         -----------      -----------     -----------      -----------
Balance December 31, 2004                                 33,752,860      $        34     $   201,635      $   (75,773)
                                                         ===========      ===========     ===========      ===========

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
of these statements.

                                                           F-5

<PAGE>


                                                NYFIX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
                                (AS RESTATED FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 AND 2002)

                                            (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AMOUNTS)
                                                                                              ACCUMULATED
                                                                          NOTES RECEIVABLE       OTHER            TOTAL
                                                           TREASURY            ISSUED         COMPREHENSIVE    STOCKHOLDERS'
                                                             STOCK        FOR COMMON STOCK        LOSS            EQUITY
                                                         --------------   ----------------   ------------     -------------
Balance January 1, 2002, as previously reported            $   (19,100)     $      (592)     $       (35)     $    86,919
Prior period adjustments (as restated, see Note 2)                --               --               --              3,771
                                                           -----------      -----------      -----------      -----------
Balance January 1, 2002 (as restated, see Note 2)              (19,100)            (592)             (35)          90,690
Comprehensive loss:
   Net loss (as restated, see Note 2)                             --               --               --             (7,007)
   Net unrealized gain on available-for-sale
      securities                                                   --               --                142              142
                                                                                                              -----------
   Total comprehensive loss (as restated, see Note 2)                                                              (6,865)
                                                                                                              -----------
Exercise of stock options                                         --                (70)            --                407
Issuance of common stock                                          --               --               --             50,275
Compensation expense related to stock option
    grants, (as restated, see Note 2)                             --               --               --              2,554
Effect of exercise/cancellation of stock options (as
    restated, see Note 2)                                         --               --               --               (442)
Repayment of notes issued for purchase of
   common stock                                                   --                 70             --                 70
Interest accrued on notes for common stock,
   net of payments                                                --                 (5)            --                 (5)
Tax benefit from exercise of stock options (as
   restated, see Note 2)                                          --               --               --                140
                                                           -----------      -----------      -----------      -----------
Balance December 31, 2002 (as restated, see Note 2)            (19,100)            (597)             107          136,824
Comprehensive loss:
   Net loss (as restated, see Note 2)                             --               --               --             (4,915)
   Reversal of net unrealized gain on
      available-for-sale securities                               --               --               (107)            (107)
                                                                                                              -----------
   Total comprehensive loss (as restated, see Note 2)                                                              (5,022)
                                                                                                              -----------
Exercise of stock options                                         --               --               --                838
Issuance of common stock                                          --               --               --              3,032
Compensation expense related to stock option
    grants, (as restated, see Note 2)                             --               --               --                701
Effect of exercise/cancellation of stock options (as
   restated, see Note 2)                                          --               --               --               (166)
Repayment of notes issued for purchase of
   common stock                                                   --                445             --                445
Interest paid on notes for common stock,
   net of accruals                                                --                 78             --                 78
Acquisition of common stock (60,000 shares)                       (380)            --               --               (380)
Tax benefit from exercise of stock options (as
   restated, see Note 2)                                          --               --               --                199
                                                           -----------      -----------      -----------      -----------
Balance December 31, 2003 (as restated, see Note 2)            (19,480)             (74)            --            136,549
Comprehensive loss:
   Net loss                                                       --               --               --            (32,702)
   Foreign currency translation adjustment                        --               --                (95)             (95)
                                                                                                              -----------
   Total comprehensive loss                                                                                       (32,797)
                                                                                                              -----------
Exercise of stock options                                         --               --               --                396
Issuance of common stock and common stock from
   treasury (34,070 shares)                                        488             --               --              2,342
Compensation expense related to stock option grants               --               --               --                247
Effect of exercise/cancellation of stock options                  --               --               --                 (2)
Repayment of notes issued for purchase of
   common stock                                                   --                 10             --                 10
Interest accrued on notes for common stock,
   net of payments                                                --                 (3)            --                 (3)
                                                           -----------      -----------      -----------      -----------
Balance December 31, 2004                                  $   (18,992)     $       (67)     $       (95)     $   106,742
                                                           ===========      ===========      ===========      ===========

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
of these statements.

                                                                F-5A

<PAGE>
                                         NYFIX, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                                (IN THOUSANDS)

                                                                              YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                   ------------------------------------------
                                                                     2004           2003            2002
                                                                   ----------     -----------    ------------
                                                                                  (AS RESTATED - SEE NOTE 2)
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net loss                                                         $ (32,702)     $  (4,915)     $  (7,007)
  Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided
   by operating activities:
    Depreciation and amortization                                     14,400         12,994         11,661
    Restructuring charge                                               2,527           --             --
    Compensation expense related to stock option grants                  247            701          2,496
    Deferred income taxes                                             19,063         (4,207)        (2,868)
    Provision for doubtful accounts                                      763          2,831          1,146
    Equity in loss of unconsolidated affiliates                           74            832          2,010
    Loss (gain) on sale of investments                                    17           (235)           (13)
    Other, net                                                           286             27           --
    Changes in assets and liabilities (net of business
     acquisitions):
       Accounts receivable                                            (3,797)         3,409           (703)
       Prepaid expenses and other assets                                (356)         2,400           (941)
       Securities borrowed                                          (136,511)        (1,945)
       Deferred revenue                                                  262            171           (598)
       Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other                    6,108          1,663         (1,457)
         liabilities
       Securities loaned                                             136,675          1,700           --
                                                                   ---------      ---------      ---------
        Net cash provided by operating activities                      7,056         15,426          3,726
                                                                   ---------      ---------      ---------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Purchases of short-term investments                                (13,347)        (7,177)       (10,631)
  Sales of short-term investments                                     12,312         14,486         32,992
  Capital expenditures for property and equipment                     (6,661)        (5,290)        (4,566)
  Capitalization of product enhancement costs                         (6,482)        (5,345)        (2,829)
  Proceeds from sale of equipment                                       --               2            387
  Cash acquired from acquisitions, net of payments/(payments           1,380            (97)        (6,795)
  for acquisitions, net of cash acquired)
  Investment in unconsolidated affiliates                               --             --           (5,000)
  Loans and advances to unconsolidated affiliates,                      (205)        (2,408)          (324)
  net of repayments
                                                                   ---------      ---------      ---------
  Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities                (13,003)        (5,829)         3,234
                                                                   ---------      ---------      ---------
Cash flows from financing activities:
    Proceeds from borrowings                                           8,600           --             --
    Financing costs                                                     (283)          --             --
    Repayment of borrowings                                             (711)          --             --
    Principal payments under capital lease obligations                  (571)        (1,087)        (1,192)
    Repayment of notes issued for purchase of common stock                10            445             70
    Net proceeds from issuance of common stock                           396            838            407
                                                                   ---------      ---------      ---------
        Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities            7,441            196           (715)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash                                  (95)          --             --
                                                                   ---------      ---------      ---------
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents                              1,399          9,793          6,245
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year                          21,006         11,213          4,968
                                                                   ---------      ---------      ---------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year                             $  22,405      $  21,006      $  11,213
                                                                   =========      =========      =========

The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part
of these statements.

                                      F-6

<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


1.     BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES


NATURE OF OPERATIONS

        NYFIX, Inc., (together with its subsidiaries, the "Company"), founded in
1991, is incorporated in Delaware and  headquartered  in Stamford,  Connecticut.
The  Company  is an  established  provider  to the  domestic  and  international
financial  markets of  trading  workstations,  middle  office  trade  automation
technologies and trade communication  technologies.  The Company's NYFIX Network
connects  broker-dealers,   institutions  and  exchanges.  In  addition  to  its
headquarters  in  Stamford,  the  Company has offices on Wall Street in New York
City,  in London's  Financial  District,  in Chicago,  in San  Francisco  and in
Madrid. The Company operates  redundant data centers in the northeastern  United
States and data  center  hubs in  London,  Amsterdam,  Hong Kong and Tokyo.  The
Company has two  business  segments:  its  Technology  Services  segment and its
Transaction Services segment. The Company provides trading technology,  industry
network  connectivity  and  execution  services,  offering  certain  underlying,
universally applicable network inter-connectivity products, systems, facilities,
and supporting  operations to its segments.  The Company's  Technology  Services
segment is a technology provider, focusing on offering trade-management systems,
a  centralized   industry   order-routing   network,   order-routing   software,
exchange-floor  automation  systems,  exchange and market access  technology and
post-trade   processing  systems.  The  Company's  Technology  Services  segment
customers  consist  primarily of United States  securities  brokerage  firms and
international  derivatives  brokerage firms. The Company's  Transaction Services
segment is primarily  comprised of  broker-dealers  registered with the National
Association of Securities  Dealers ("NASD") or the Financial  Services Authority
("FSA"),  which  in  addition  to  the  technology  provided  by  the  Company's
Technology Services segment,  provides an electronic execution venue for trading
in United States stocks and direct market access and execution links.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

        The accompanying  consolidated financial statements include the accounts
of  NYFIX,  Inc.  and its  majority-owned  and  wholly-owned  subsidiaries.  All
significant  intercompany  balances and  transactions  have been  eliminated  in
consolidation.

        On February 1, 2002,  the Company  acquired an additional  30% ownership
interest in NYFIX Millennium,  L.L.C. ("NYFIX Millennium")  resulting in a total
ownership  interest  of  80%  and  control  of the  NYFIX  Millennium  Board  of
Directors.  Effective  on that date,  the  Company  consolidated  the  financial
statements  of  NYFIX  Millennium  and  recognized  100% of  NYFIX  Millennium's
operating  losses  (see  Note  4).  If  and  when  NYFIX   Millennium   achieves
profitability,  24% of its profits will be  allocated  to the other  partners in
accordance with the contractual agreement among the parties.

        Prior to July 1,  2003,  the  Company's  18%  ownership  in  Renaissance
Trading  Technologies,  LLC  ("Renaissance")  was accounted for under the equity
method, since the Company had the ability to exercise significant influence over
the operating and financial policies of Renaissance. Effective July 1, 2003, the
Company  acquired the  remaining 82% of  Renaissance,  which the Company did not
already own. Since that date, the Company  consolidated the financial statements
of Renaissance (see Note 4).

        Prior to March  29,  2004,  the  Company's  40%  ownership  interest  in
EuroLink Network,  Inc.  ("EuroLink") was accounted for under the equity method.
Effective  March 29, 2004,  the Company  acquired the remaining 60% of EuroLink,
which the Company did not already own. As of that date, the Company consolidated
EuroLink (see Note 4).

USE OF ESTIMATES

        The preparation of consolidated  financial statements in conformity with
accounting  principles  generally  accepted  in the  United  States  of  America

                                      F-7

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

requires  management to make estimates and assumptions  that affect the reported
amounts of assets and  liabilities,  the  disclosure  of  contingent  assets and
liabilities  at the  dates  of the  consolidated  financial  statements  and the
reported  amounts of revenue and  expense  during the  reporting  periods in the
consolidated  financial statements and accompanying notes. The estimates include
the  collectibility  of accounts  receivable,  the useful  lives of tangible and
intangible  assets,  the  recoverability  of  goodwill  and the  realization  of
deferred  tax assets,  among  others.  Estimates  and  assumptions  are reviewed
periodically  and the effects of revisions  are  reflected  in the  consolidated
financial  statements in the period they are determined to be necessary.  Actual
results could differ materially from those estimates.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

        The  Company  recognizes  revenue  in  accordance  with  Securities  and
Exchange Commission ("SEC")  Staff Accounting  Bulletin ("SAB") No. 101, REVENUE
RECOGNITION IN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, as amended by SAB 101A and 101B ("SAB 101")
and SAB 104, REVENUE RECOGNITION. SAB 101 requires that four basic criteria must
be  met  before  revenue  can  be  recognized:  (1)  persuasive  evidence  of an
arrangement  exists;  (2) delivery has occurred or services have been  rendered;
(3) the fee is fixed and  determinable;  and (4)  collectibility  is  reasonably
assured.  Determination  of  criteria  (3)  and (4) are  based  on  management's
judgment  regarding  the fixed nature of the fee charged for products  delivered
and the collectibility of those fees.

        The Company recognizes revenue from software  arrangements in accordance
with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' ("AICPA") Statement
of Position ("SOP") 97-2,  SOFTWARE REVENUE  RECOGNITION as amended by SOP 98-9,
MODIFICATION  OF SOP 97-2 WITH  RESPECT  TO  CERTAIN  TRANSACTIONS.  Revenue  is
recognized  when persuasive  evidence of an arrangement  exists and delivery has
occurred,  provided  the  fee  is  fixed  or  determinable,   collectibility  is
reasonably   assured  and  the   arrangement   does  not   require   significant
customization or modification of the software.

        The Company recognizes revenue for contracts with multiple  deliverables
that are not covered under SOP 97-2 in accordance with the Financial  Accounting
Standards Board's ("FASB") Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") 00-21, ACCOUNTING
FOR REVENUE ARRANGEMENTS WITH MULTIPLE DELIVERABLES ("EITF No. 00-21"). EITF No.
00-21  applies to  certain  contractually  binding  arrangements  under  which a
company performs  multiple revenue  generating  activities and requires that all
companies   account  for  each  element  within  an  arrangement  with  multiple
deliverables as separate units of accounting if (a) the delivered item has value
on a stand-alone  basis,  (b) there is objective  and reliable  evidence of fair
value and (c) the amount of the total  arrangement  consideration is fixed. EITF
No.  00-21 was  effective  for revenue  arrangements  entered  into in reporting
periods  beginning after June 15, 2003 and was adopted by the Company  effective
July 1, 2003.

        The  Company's  revenue is  comprised  of  subscription,  sale,  service
contract, and transaction revenue, described as follows:

        Subscription  revenue  contracts are for providing the Company's systems
and use of its NYFIX  Network,  with an initial term of  generally  one to three
years with automatic  annual renewal  periods unless the Company  receives prior
written notice of cancellation.  Additional services,  provided under schedules,
or addendums to the contracts, are either co-terminus with the original contract
or have  provisions  similar to the  original  contract.  Under the terms of the
subscription  contracts and addendums,  customers are typically  invoiced a flat
periodic charge after initial  installation and acceptance.  The revenue related
to these  contracts  is  recognized  over the  initial  term of the  contract or
addendum,  on a  straight-line  basis.  The  Company  also  includes  within its
subscription  revenue  telecommunication  and other  charges,  which the Company
provides  to the  customer  at  cost  plus a  normal  profit.  Such  revenue  is
recognized  as the  services  are  provided.  As the  Company  has no history of
significant   cancellations,   the  Company   does  not  record  a  reserve  for
cancellations.

                                      F-8

<PAGE>


             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

        Capital  sale  revenue,  which is  primarily  comprised  of software and
capital  equipment sales and  professional  service fees, is recognized when the
software and  equipment  have been shipped and accepted by the customer and when
other contractual obligations,  including installation if applicable,  have been
satisfied  and  collection of the  resulting  receivable is reasonably  assured.
Capital sale revenue  pertaining  to software  sales is recognized in accordance
with SOP 97-2,  described  above.  As the Company has no history of  significant
sales  returns or  allowances,  the Company  does not record a reserve for sales
returns and allowances.

        Service contract  revenue,  which is comprised of maintenance  contracts
for  subscription  equipment and software and capital  equipment,  is recognized
over the  contract  period  on a  straight-line  basis.  Service  contracts  for
subscription equipment are generally co-terminus with the subscription contract.
Service contracts for software and capital equipment, typically characterized as
a percentage of the original  capital sale amount,  are generally for an initial
term of one year with  automatic  renewal  periods  unless the Company  receives
prior notice of cancellation.

        Transaction revenue primarily consists of per-share  commissions charged
to  customers  who send and  receive  a match  and  execution  in the  Company's
Alternative  Trading System  ("ATS") and customers to whom the Company  provides
execution and smart order routing  technology and gateways to access markets in:
(i)  their own name,  (ii) a third  party  name,  or (iii) the  Company's  name.
Revenue  on these  contracts  is  generally  invoiced  monthly  in arrears or is
obtained  through the clearing  process  within three days of the trade date and
recognized  in the period in which it is  earned.  Certain  transaction  revenue
contracts,  which include multiple  deliverables,  or other types of revenue are
accounted  for in accordance  with EITF 00-21,  described  above.  Some of these
contracts  have basic  minimum  fees  reflecting  the  Company's  commitment  of
technology to the customer.  The arrangement  consideration is allocated to each
element based on the relative fair values of each element.  The Company accounts
for each element of an arrangement with multiple deliverables separately. Vendor
specific objective  evidence for fair value of services is primarily  determined
by reference to renewal pricing.

        Revenue on  contracts  that is invoiced in advance of the service  being
performed is deferred and  recognized  as revenue in the period earned and until
earned it is included in  "deferred  revenue" in the  accompanying  consolidated
balance  sheets.  Shipping,  handling  and  installation  charges,  if any,  are
generally  invoiced to a customer and are included in revenue upon completion of
the installation.

COST AND EXPENSE

        Inbound freight charges are included in inventory. When the inventory is
sold, the cost of inventory,  including the inbound freight charges, is relieved
and charged to cost of revenue.  When the inventory is leased on a  subscription
basis, the cost of inventory, including the inbound freight charges, is relieved
and transferred to a subscription and service bureau equipment  account included
within "property and equipment,  net" in the accompanying  consolidated  balance
sheets. The cost of the leased subscription and service bureau equipment is then
depreciated  over the estimated  useful life of the equipment.  The depreciation
expense related to this equipment is included in cost of subscription revenue in
the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

        The Company  operates  data  centers  where it maintains  equipment  and
infrastructure  to support  its  operations.  Telecommunication  and other costs
incurred  on behalf of its  customers  and costs to maintain  the data  centers,
including  depreciation and amortization of assets utilized by the data centers,
are recognized as either a cost of subscription or cost of transaction  revenue,
as appropriate.

        Amortization  expense of acquired  intangible  assets is recognized as a
cost of revenue relating to the applicable revenue category.

                                      F-9

<PAGE>


             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

        In accordance with Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards ("SFAS")
No. 13,  ACCOUNTING  FOR LEASES  ("SFAS No.  13"),  rent expense on an operating
lease is charged to operations on a straight-line  basis over the lease term. In
accordance with FASB Technical  Bulletin ("FTB") 85-3,  ACCOUNTING FOR OPERATING
LEASES WITH SCHEDULED RENT  INCREASES,  rent free periods in an operating  lease
are included in the straight-line rent expense calculation and such reduction in
rent payments is recorded as a deferred  liability.  Pursuant to SFAS No. 13 and
FTB 88-1,  ISSUES  RELATING  TO  ACCOUNTING  FOR  LEASES  ("FTB  88-1"),  tenant
allowances  are  incentives  that are  recorded  as a  deferred  liability.  The
deferred  liability is amortized as a credit to rent expense on a  straight-line
basis over the lease term.

        Research and  development  costs are  expensed as incurred.  These costs
consist  primarily of salaries and related costs for  technical and  programming
personnel.  Research and development expense was $1.0 million, $1.4 million, and
$1.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

        The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred.  Advertising expense
was $1.0 million,  $0.8 million,  and $1.0 million for the years ended  December
31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

        The  Company  considers  all highly  liquid  investments  with  original
maturities  of  three  months  or  less  to  be  cash  equivalents.   Short-term
investments  consist of treasury bills and auction rate  certificates.  The cost
basis of  short-term  investments  was $4.5 million and $3.4 million at December
31, 2004 and 2003,  respectively.  Such  investments are stated at fair value as
determined  by the most  recently  traded price of each  security at the balance
sheet  date.   The   Company's   short-term   investments   are   classified  as
available-for-sale  securities  under the provisions of the FASB's  Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 115,  ACCOUNTING FOR CERTAIN INVESTMENTS IN
DEBT AND EQUITY SECURITIES.

        Management determines the appropriate  classification of its investments
in debt and equity  securities  at the time of  purchase  and  reevaluates  such
determinations  at each balance sheet date.  Available-for-sale  securities  are
carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, reported
as  other   comprehensive   income  (loss)  and  as  a  separate   component  of
stockholders'   equity.  Sales  of  securities  are  recorded  by  the  specific
identification  method.  There were no unrealized gains or losses as of December
31, 2004 and 2003.

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

        Accounts  receivable  are stated at net  realizable  value by  recording
allowances for those accounts  receivable  amounts that the Company believes are
uncollectible due to the inability of customers to make required  payments.  The
collectibility  of accounts  receivable is evaluated  based on a combination  of
factors.  In circumstances  where the Company is aware of a specific  customer's
inability  to meet its  financial  obligations  (e.g.,  bankruptcy  filings),  a
specific reserve for bad debts is recorded against amounts due to reduce the net
receivable to the amount the Company reasonably believes will be collected.  For
all other  customers,  management  estimates  a reserve for bad debts based upon
applying  certain  percentages,  based on  historical  loss  trends,  to certain
accounts  receivable  aging  categories,  net of accounts  receivable  for which
revenue recognition has been deferred.

         In the fourth quarter of 2003, a discussion  intensified around trading
rules and other issues at the NYSE.  NYSE  management  changes and proposed rule
changes at the exchange caused the Company's management to become concerned with
certain  customer  groups,  including  independent  "$2  brokers,"  and  certain
individual  customers whose economic  viability could become  challenged if such
proposed rules were adopted.  To increase the Company's  immediate cash position
and to reduce the  Company's  exposure to these  customers  going  forward,  the
Company initiated an aggressive program to accelerate the collection of past due
accounts  receivable  through,  among other things, the issuance of discounts to

                                      F-10

<PAGE>


             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

certain customers.  Principally as a result of this program, the Company reduced
its accounts  receivable,  net from $18.4 million at September 30, 2003 to $10.4
million at December  31,  2003 and  recorded an  incremental  provision  of $2.2
million for these discounts and other  allowances which is included in "selling,
general  and  administrative"  expense  in the  accompanying  2003  consolidated
statement of  operations.  The allowance for doubtful  accounts was $2.1 million
and $1.8 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  The provision for
doubtful accounts was $0.8 million,  $2.8 million and $1.1 million for the years
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

BUSINESS CONCENTRATIONS AND CREDIT RISK

        The   Company's   revenue  is  derived  from  the   financial   services
marketplace, primarily the brokerage community. For the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002, no single customer  accounted for more than 10% of revenue.
As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, no single customer accounted for more than 10%
of accounts receivable.

INVENTORY

        Inventory  was $0.9  million and $0.8  million at December  31, 2004 and
2003,  respectively,  and is  included in "prepaid  expenses  and other  current
assets" in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

        Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated  depreciation.
Included  in  equipment  are certain  costs  related to the  development  of the
Company's  NYFIX  Network  to  support  its   subscription   and  service  based
businesses.  Pursuant to SFAS No. 13 and FTB 88-1,  leasehold  improvements  are
capitalized  and tenant  allowances  are  recorded as a deferred  liability  and
amortized  as a credit to rent expense on a  straight-line  basis over the lease
term. Depreciation of property and equipment is provided using the straight-line
method over the assets'  estimated  useful  lives.  Leasehold  improvements  are
amortized  over the shorter of the assets'  economic lives or the lease term. In
situations where the Company determines that the useful life of long-lived asset
should be revised,  the Company  depreciates the net book value in excess of the
estimated residual value over its revised remaining useful life.

ACQUISITIONS AND GOODWILL

        The consolidated  financial statements include the results of operations
of the acquired  businesses from the date of their respective  acquisition.  Net
assets of acquired  businesses  were recorded at their fair value at the date of
acquisition.  Goodwill represents  acquisition costs in excess of the fair value
of net assets  acquired and  liabilities  assumed.  The Company adopted SFAS No.
142,  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS ("SFAS No. 142") effective January 1,
2002.  The  provisions  of SFAS No. 142 require  that the Company  allocate  its
goodwill to its various  reporting units,  determine the carrying value of those
reporting  units,  and estimate the fair value of the reporting  units so that a
goodwill impairment test can be performed. The Company's reporting units are the
same as its reportable  segments identified in Note 16. In the first step of the
goodwill  impairment  test, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared to
its carrying value.  If the fair value exceeds the carrying  value,  goodwill is
not deemed to be impaired and no further  testing is performed.  If the carrying
value  exceeds the fair value,  the second step must be  performed,  whereby the
implied fair value of the  reporting  unit's  goodwill  must be  determined  and
compared to the carrying  value of the goodwill for the  reporting  unit. If the
carrying value of a reporting  unit's  goodwill  exceeds its implied fair value,
then an impairment  loss equal to the difference is recorded.  In the absence of
circumstances requiring impairment testing on a quarterly or other more frequent
basis, the Company's annual  impairment  testing date, using the discounted cash
flow valuation method,  is the beginning of the fiscal fourth quarter,  which is
October  1. In  accordance  with SFAS No.  142,  goodwill  would be  tested  for

                                      F-11

<PAGE>


             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

impairment  on an interim  basis if events or changes in  circumstances  suggest
that  goodwill  might be impaired.  There was no  impairment of goodwill for the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

PRODUCT ENHANCEMENT COSTS

        Costs incurred in the research,  design and  development of software for
sale to others as a separate  product or  embedded in a product and sold as part
of the product as a whole are charged to expense until technological feasibility
is established.  Thereafter,  product enhancement costs, consisting primarily of
payroll and related costs,  purchased  materials and services and software to be
used within the Company's products that significantly  enhance the marketability
or  significantly  extend the life of the products are capitalized and amortized
to cost of revenue on a straight-line basis over three years, beginning when the
products  are  offered  for sale or the  enhancements  are  integrated  into the
products.  Product  enhancement  costs are long-lived assets and are included in
"other assets" on the accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets.  Management is
required to use professional judgment in determining whether product enhancement
costs meet the criteria for immediate expense or  capitalization,  in accordance
with SFAS No. 86,  ACCOUNTING  FOR THE COSTS OF  COMPUTER  SOFTWARE  TO BE SOLD,
LEASED, OR OTHERWISE MARKETED.

LONG-LIVED ASSETS

        The Company reviews the carrying value of long-lived  assets,  including
property and  equipment,  intangible  assets,  investments  and other  long-term
amounts due from  unconsolidated  affiliates and capitalized product enhancement
costs for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount may not be fully recoverable.  If such an event or circumstances  occurs,
the related estimated fair value of the assets would be compared to the carrying
amount,  and if needed,  the Company  would record an  impairment  charge to the
extent by which the carrying  amount exceeds the fair value of the asset.  There
was no impairment of long-lived assets recorded for the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002.

DEFERRED FINANCING COSTS

        The costs  related to the issuance of the  convertible  note on December
30, 2004 of $0.3 million have been  capitalized  and will be amortized  over the
term of the note.

INCOME TAXES

        The Company  accounts for income taxes in accordance  with SFAS No. 109,
ACCOUNTING  FOR INCOME TAXES ("SFAS No. 109"),  which  requires  recognition  of
deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax  consequences of
events that have been included in the consolidated  financial  statements or tax
returns  using  presently  enacted  income tax rates.  To the extent the Company
believes  there will not be  sufficient  future  taxable  income to utilize  its
deferred  tax assets  prior to their  expiration,  the  Company  would  record a
valuation allowance against the unrealizable amount, and record a charge against
operating results.  Where there are cumulative operating losses in recent years,
SFAS No. 109 requires,  except in very limited  circumstances,  that a valuation
allowance be established. The Company did not have operating income in the years
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 or 2002. The Company previously estimated that its
deferred tax assets,  consisting  primarily of net operating  loss and other tax
credit carryforwards, would be realized and no valuation allowance was required,
based on revenue and operating expense assumptions.  During the third quarter of
2004, the Company's  general and  administrative  expenses related to compliance
with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  ("Sarbanes-Oxley") and legal
expenses  increased more than  forecasted and the Company expects these costs to

                                      F-12

<PAGE>


             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

remain at this higher  level in the near term.  These cost  increases,  together
with revenues from its Transaction Services segment being impacted by much lower
than expected  volumes in the equity markets,  particularly  during the month of
September,  were the primary  reasons the Company  reduced its  forecast for the
near-term.  Accordingly,  the Company  established a valuation  allowance on the
deferred tax assets of $25.6 million as of December 31, 2004.  Until the Company
can achieve  and  sustain an  appropriate  level of  profitability,  it plans to
maintain a valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets. See Note 11.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

        The  carrying  value for all  current  assets  and  current  liabilities
approximates fair value because of their short-term  nature.  The carrying value
of the $7.5 million  convertible note  approximates  fair value as its terms are
based upon the actual,  private  market  transaction  occurring  on December 30,
2004.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

        For most of the Company's foreign operations, primarily its London-based
subsidiary, NYFIX International,  Ltd. ("NYFIX International"),  which commenced
operations in 2004, local currencies are considered the functional currency. The
translation  adjustments were recorded in "accumulated other comprehensive loss"
in  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets.  The  U.S.  dollar  is the
functional  currency  for our  London  operation  that is a branch of a Delaware
Corporation  conducting its business in both U.S.  dollars and pounds  sterling.
The monetary assets and liabilities of our foreign  operations are translated at
year-end exchange rates while non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated
at  historical  rates.  Revenue and expense are  translated  at average rates in
effect during the year,  except for  depreciation  and cost of sales,  which are
translated at historical rates. Local currency transactions of the London branch
of the Delaware Corporation are remeasured into U.S. dollars, with the resulting
exchange adjustments  included in income.  Aggregate foreign currency gains from
remeasurement were $280,000,  $398,000 and $430,000 for the years ended December
31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,  respectively,  and were included in "selling,  general
and  administrative  expense" in the  accompanying  consolidated  statements  of
operations.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

        The Company reflects other comprehensive  income (loss),  which consists
of unrealized gains and losses on  available-for-sale  securities and unrealized
foreign  currency   translation   adjustments,   as  a  separate   component  of
stockholders'  equity  as  required  by SFAS No.  130,  REPORTING  COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

The Company accounts for its stock-based  compensation under the recognition and
measurement  provisions of the Accounting  Principles  Board Opinion ("APB") No.
25, ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK ISSUED TO EMPLOYEES and related interpretations and has
elected  the  disclosure-only  alternative  under SFAS No. 123,  ACCOUNTING  FOR
STOCK-BASED  COMPENSATION ("SFAS No. 123").  Stock-based compensation expense of
$0.2  million,  $0.7 million and $2.5 million was included in operating  results
for the years ended  December 31,  2004,  2003 and 2002,  respectively,  for the
intrinsic  value of certain  stock options where the fair value of the Company's
common stock on the measurement  date was in excess of the exercise  price.  The
following table  illustrates the effect on net loss and loss per common share if
the Company had applied the fair value  recognition  provisions of SFAS No. 123,
as  required  by  SFAS  No.  148,  ACCOUNTING  FOR  STOCK-BASED  COMPENSATION  -
TRANSITION  AND  DISCLOSURE,  to  stock-based  compensation  for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 (also see Note 15):

                                      F-13

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

                                                                YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                        -------------------------------------------
                                                            2004           2003             2002
                                                        -------------    ------------     ---------
                                                                        (AS RESTATED - SEE NOTE 2)
                                                          (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
Net loss, as reported                                   $   (32,702)     $    (4,915)     $ (7,007)
Add: Stock-based compensation expense included in               247              517         1,897
   reported net loss, net of tax
Deduct: Stock-based compensation expense determined          (3,181)          (4,239)       (9,822)
   under the fair value method, net of tax
                                                        -----------      -----------      --------
Pro forma net loss                                      $   (35,636)     $    (8,637)     $(14,932)
                                                        ===========      ===========      ========

Basic and diluted loss per common share:
   As reported                                          $     (1.02)     $     (0.16)     $  (0.23)
                                                        ===========      ===========      ========
   Pro forma                                            $     (1.11)     $     (0.27)     $  (0.50)
                                                        ===========      ===========      ========

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

        In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R),  SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
("SFAS  No.  123  (R)").  SFAS No.  123(R)  is a  revision  of SFAS No.  123 and
supersedes  APB No. 25 and its  related  implementation  guidance.  SFAS  123(R)
establishes  standards for the  accounting for  transactions  in which an entity
exchanges its equity for goods or services.  It also addressed  transactions  in
which an entity  incurs  liabilities  in exchange for goods or services that are
based  on the fair  value  of the  entity's  equity  instruments  or that may be
settled by the issuance of those equity  instruments.  SFAS No.  123(R)  focuses
primarily on accounting for  transactions  in which an entity  obtains  employee
services in share-based payment transactions. SFAS No. 123(R) allows entities to
apply a  modified  retrospective  application  to periods  before  the  required
effective  date.  SFAS No. 123(R) is effective  for public  entities that do not
file as small business issuers as of the beginning of the first annual reporting
period that begins  after June 15,  2005,  or in the  Company's  case January 1,
2006. The Company is evaluating the impact of SFAS No. 123(R),  which could have
a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.

        In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, EXCHANGES OF NONMONETARY
ASSETS ("SFAS No. 153").  SFAS No. 153 addresses the measurement of exchanges of
nonmonetary  assets.  SFAS No. 153  eliminates the exception from the fair value
measurement  for  nonmonetary  exchanges of similar  product assets in paragraph
21(b) of APB  Opinion  No. 29,  ACCOUNTING  FOR  NONMONETARY  TRANSACTIONS,  and
replaces  it  with an  exception  for  exchanges  that  do not  have  commercial
substance.  SFAS No. 153 specifies  that a nonmonetary  exchange has  commercial
substance  if the  future  cash  flows of the  entity  are  expected  to  change
significantly  as a result  of the  exchange.  SFAS  No.  153 is  effective  for
nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15,
2005.  The Company has not  completed its analysis of the impact of SFAS No. 153
on the  Company,  but as the  Company  has  not  been  involved  in  significant
nonmonetary  exchanges in the past,  it does not expect that the  provisions  of
SFAS  No.  153  will  have  a  material  impact  on its  consolidated  financial
statements.

        In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,  INVENTORY  COSTS ("SFAS
No. 151").  SFAS No. 151 amends  Accounting  Research  Bulleting  ("ARB") No. 43
INVENTORY  PRICING to clarify that abnormal  amounts of idle  facility  expense,
freight, handling costs, and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as
current-period  charges.  SFAS No. 151 also  requires  that  allocation of fixed
production  overheads to the cost of conversion be based on the normal  capacity
of the  production  facilities.  SFAS No. 151 is effective for  inventory  costs
incurred  during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company has not
completed  its analysis of the impact of SFAS No. 151, but as inventory is not a
material component of its consolidated  financial  statements,  the Company does
not expect that the  provisions  of SFAS No. 151 will have a material  impact on
its consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-14

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

2.      RESTATEMENT OF PREVIOUSLY ISSUED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

        Subsequent to the issuance of the consolidated  financial  statements as
of and  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2003,  management  of the  Company
determined   that  it  incorrectly   accounted  for  a)   compensation   expense
attributable  to  stock  options  granted;  and  b)  deferred  income  taxes  in
connection with certain  acquisitions.  As a result, the consolidated  financial
statements as of December 31, 2003 and for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
2002 have been restated from the amounts previously reported.

        The Company  accounted for  compensation  expense  attributable to stock
options  granted  to  certain  employees  and  directors  between  1993 and 2003
incorrectly as the intrinsic value of these stock options was calculated as of a
date other than the  measurement  date.  Correcting this error had the effect of
increasing  the net loss by $0.5  million  and $2.0  million for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

        The Company  accounted  for  deferred  income taxes in  connection  with
certain acquisitions incorrectly, whereby the Company did not correctly identify
and  account  for the  allocation  of the  deferred  tax assets and  liabilities
acquired.

        In   addition,   the  Company   reclassified   its  equity  in  loss  of
unconsolidated  affiliates  of $0.8 million and $0.6 million for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively,  from "other income (expense), net" to
"equity in loss of unconsolidated affiliates".

        The  net  effect  of the  adjustments  made  to  restate  the  Company's
previously  issued  consolidated  financial  statements,  with  respect  to  the
accounting  described above, was for the Company to increase its total assets by
$4.6 million,  and increase its total  liabilities and  stockholders'  equity by
$4.6 million as of December 31, 2003.

        The increase in total assets includes:

          a)   an increase in goodwill of $4.9 million  representing  the offset
               of the amount of additional  deferred tax liabilities  related to
               certain acquisitions; and partially offset by

          b)   a  decrease  in  deferred  tax  assets,   net,  of  $0.3  million
               representing   the   aforementioned   additional   deferred   tax
               liabilities  of $4.9  million  related to  certain  acquisitions,
               which was substantially offset by incremental deferred tax assets
               of $4.6 million  attributable to the compensation expense related
               to stock options granted.

        The increase in total liabilities and stockholders'  equity includes an
increase in:

          a)   accrued expenses of $0.6 million  representing  payroll taxes and
               interest expense due as a result of certain  non-qualified  stock
               options which were previously exercised;

          b)   additional  paid-in  capital  of $16.3  million  representing  an
               aggregate  compensation  expense  attributable  to stock  options
               granted of $16.4 million, which was partially offset by exercises
               and cancellations of stock options of $0.1 million; and

          c)   accumulated   deficit   of   $12.3   million   representing   the
               aforementioned  aggregate  compensation  expense  attributable to
               stock options granted, including the aforementioned payroll taxes
               and interest, of $17.0 million, net of income tax benefit of $4.7
               million.

                                      F-15

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

          The  following  tables  summarize  the  significant   effects  of  the
restatement on the Company's consolidated statements of operations for the years
ended  December  31,  2003  and 2002 and the  consolidated  balance  sheet as of
December 31, 2003.

                                                         YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                          ------------------------------------------------------
                                                      2003                       2002
                                          --------------------------   -------------------------
                                                                           AS
                                          AS PREVIOUSLY                PREVIOUSLY
                                            REPORTED     AS RESTATED    REPORTED     AS RESTATED
                                           ---------     -----------    --------     -----------
                                                   (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
Consolidated statements of operations data:
  Cost of revenue:
   Subscription                             $ 20,403      $ 20,419      $ 16,105      $ 16,106
   Capital sale                                3,066         3,068         2,958         2,958
   Service contract                            2,859         2,897         2,298         2,412
   Transaction                                 8,273         8,283         6,945         6,946
                                            --------      --------      --------      --------
      Total cost of revenue                   34,601        34,667        28,306        28,422
                                            --------      --------      --------      --------
   Operating expense:
    Selling, general and administrative       35,763        36,394        29,884        32,240
    Research and development                   1,353         1,367         1,386         1,488
    Equity in loss of unconsolidated            --             832         1,340         2,010
    affiliates
    Depreciation and amortization              2,649         2,649         3,274         3,274
                                            --------      --------      --------      --------
     Total operating expense                  39,765        41,242        35,884        39,012
                                            --------      --------      --------      --------
    Loss from operations                      (8,457)      (10,000)       (8,378)      (11,622)
   Interest expense                             (125)         (157)         (262)         (294)
   Other income (expense), net                  (758)           74          (621)           (9)
                                            --------      --------      --------      --------
    Loss before income tax benefit            (8,743)       (9,486)       (8,633)      (11,297)
   Income tax benefit                         (4,370)       (4,571)       (3,588)       (4,290)
                                            --------      --------      --------      --------
    Net loss                                $ (4,373)     $ (4,915)     $ (5,045)     $ (7,007)
                                            ========      ========      ========      ========

   Basic and diluted loss per common share  $  (0.14)     $  (0.16)     $  (0.17)     $  (0.23)
                                            ========      ========      ========      ========


                                                      AS OF DECEMBER 31,
                                                            2003
                                                 ----------------------------
                                                     AS
                                                  PREVIOUSLY
                                                  REPORTED        AS RESTATED
                                                 -----------      -----------
                                                           (IN THOUSANDS)
Consolidated balance sheet data:
  Goodwill                                         $  55,966      $  60,904
  Deferred income taxes:
   Current portion                                       976            976
   Non-current portion                                16,424         16,098
      Total assets                                   152,172        156,784
  Accrued expenses                                     4,807          5,442
      Total current liabilities                       18,328         18,963
      Total liabilities                               19,600         20,235
  Additional paid-in capital                         182,863        199,141
  Accumulated deficit                                (30,770)       (43,071)
    Total stockholders' equity                       132,572        136,549
    Total liabilities and stockholders' equity       152,172        156,784

                                      F-16

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

3.      PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

        Property and  equipment  at December 31, 2004 and 2003  consisted of the
following:

                                                  DECEMBER 31,
                                              ------------------   USEFUL LIVES
                                                2004       2003       (YEARS)
                                              --------   -------   ------------
                                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
Computer software                             $ 4,871     $ 4,456     4 - 5
Leasehold improvements                          3,217       2,071     2 - 10
Furniture and equipment                         7,054       6,548     3 - 7
Subscription and data center equipment         33,240      27,993     3 - 5
                                              -------     ------
      Total property and equipment, gross      48,382      41,068
Less: Accumulated depreciation                 31,733      24,476
                                              -------     -------
      Total property and equipment, net       $16,649     $16,592
                                              =======     =======

        Assets held under capital leases,  included in the above at December 31,
2004 and 2003, consisted of the following:

                                                      DECEMBER 31,
                                                  ------------------   USEFUL LIVES
                                                    2004       2003       (YEARS)
                                                  --------   -------   ------------
                                                     (IN THOUSANDS)
Furniture and equipment                           $  114     $  115        3 - 5
Data center equipment                              4,368      2,969        3 - 5
                                                  ------     -----
      Total property and equipment held under      4,482      3,084
       capital leases, gross
Less: Accumulated depreciation                     2,678      1,877
                                                  ------     ------
      Total property and equipment held under
       capital leases, net                        $1,804     $1,207
                                                  ======     ======

        Depreciation  and  amortization  expense for property and  equipment was
$7.9  million,  $8.0 million and $7.7  million for the years ended  December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  Of these amounts, $5.6 million, $5.4 million
and $4.4  million  for the  years  ended  December  31,  2004,  2003  and  2002,
respectively,  were included in cost of revenue. Amortization expense for assets
held under capital leases included above was $0.9 million, $0.8 million and $1.2
million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

4.      ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS

ACQUISITIONS

EUROLINK

        On March 6, 2002,  the Company  acquired a convertible  preferred  stock
interest in  EuroLink,  with its  operations  based in Madrid,  Spain,  for $4.0
million in cash. The preferred stock  automatically  converted into a 40% common
stock interest on March 6, 2004.

                                      F-17

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

        Effective  March 29, 2004,  the Company  acquired the  remaining  60% of
EuroLink  that it did not already own for $24,000 in cash and  promissory  notes
issued and  payable in the  Company's  common  stock or cash,  at the  Company's
option, in the aggregate having a fair value of $0.5 million.  The fair value of
the notes,  which were  payable on April 28,  2005,  was  included  in  "current
portion  of  long-term  debt  and  other   liabilities"   in  the   accompanying
consolidated  balance sheet as of December 31, 2004. The Company  intends to pay
the  notes  using  its  common  stock.  Due to the  delay  in  issuing  its 2004
consolidated  financial  statements,  the Company was unable to issue its common
stock to satisfy  this debt.  The  Company  intends  to settle  this  obligation
through the issuance of common stock as soon as  practicable  subsequent  to the
filing of its 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

        In  connection  with  the  acquisition,   the  Company   contributed  to
EuroLink's  capital  certain  obligations  that  EuroLink  owed to the  Company,
including  notes  receivable  and  advances  outstanding  as of March 29,  2004,
aggregating $1.0 million.

        Since its initial investment and through March 29, 2004, the Company had
recorded  its  equity  in the  losses  of  EuroLink  aggregating  $1.0  million,
including $0.1 million, $0.4 million and $0.5 million for the three months ended
March 31, 2004 and the years  ended  December  31, 2003 and 2002,  respectively.
Such losses were included in "equity in loss of  unconsolidated  affiliates"  in
the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. In addition, the Company
had notes receivable from EuroLink at December 31, 2003 of $0.6 million, bearing
an interest  rate of 6.0%.  The Company also  advanced to EuroLink  $0.2 million
during the year ended December 31, 2004 to fund certain  operating  costs.  Such
notes and advances  were  reflected as "notes  receivable  and other amounts due
from unconsolidated affiliate" in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet at
December 31, 2003.

        EuroLink  offers the  European  securities  industry  direct  electronic
access to the United  States  equity  markets from Europe.  EuroLink  offers the
Company's equity products and services to the European marketplace, primarily on
a transaction fee basis. The Company's key  consideration for the acquisition of
EuroLink was the  expected  synergy to be achieved by  combining  EuroLink  with
NYFIX  International,  the Company's recently formed London-based  broker-dealer
subsidiary  through which it plans to capture  electronic order flow to and from
the United States and within Europe.

        The  total  purchase  price  for  100% of  EuroLink,  consisting  of the
Company's  pre-acquisition  equity  investment basis of $3.0 million,  the notes
receivable and advances of $1.0 million,  the promissory  notes in the aggregate
of $0.5  million  and  acquisition-related  expenses of $0.1  million,  was $4.6
million.  The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets
acquired was $2.9 million and has been recorded as goodwill.

RENAISSANCE

        On  October  2,  2002,  the  Company  acquired  an 18%  interest  in the
membership  units of  Renaissance.  Renaissance  was formed to  commercialize  a
Nasdaq trading platform (the  "Platform").  The Company acquired its interest in
return for 300,000  shares of the  Company's  common  stock with a fair value of
$3.74 per share,  totaling $1.1 million.  In addition,  the Company  received an
option to purchase, between October 2004 and October 2006, a minimum of 20% to a
maximum of 40% of the total  outstanding  membership  units of  Renaissance at a
price to be determined based upon a formula.  The  intellectual  property rights
and source code to the Platform were  developed over the last several years by a
major bank and brokerage firm. In connection  with its  investment,  the Company
acquired,  for $1.0 million, the intellectual property rights and source code to
the  Platform  from the major bank and  brokerage  firm,  and  contributed  such
intellectual  property rights and source code to Renaissance.  In  consideration
for the  intellectual  property rights  contributed and funding of the operating
costs and capital expenditures, the Company was to share in 50% of Renaissance's
revenue for, at a minimum, three years.

        In October  2002,  the Company  loaned $1.5  million to  Renaissance  in
exchange for a convertible  secured  promissory  note. The note bore an interest
rate of 5.5%, was due in October 2007, or was  convertible  into 6,400,000 units

                                      F-18

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

(or 32% of the total  outstanding  membership  units,  subject to  dilution)  of
Renaissance,  at the Company's  option.  In February 2003, the Company loaned an
additional  $1.0 million to  Renaissance  in exchange  for a secured  promissory
note.  The note bore an interest  rate of 5.5% and was due in February  2008. In
addition,  the Company funded  Renaissance $2.2 million in the aggregate through
June 30,  2003 to fund  certain  operating  costs and  capital  expenditures  of
Renaissance.  The Company sublet approximately 8,000 square feet of office space
to  Renaissance  at an annual cost of $0.2 million.  Prior to July 1, 2003,  the
Company's  investment in Renaissance  was accounted for under the equity method.
During the six months ended June 30, 2003 and the three  months  ended  December
31, 2002,  the Company  recorded its equity in the losses of Renaissance of $0.3
million  and  $0.1   million,   which  were  included  in  "equity  in  loss  of
unconsolidated  affiliates"  in  the  accompanying  consolidated  statements  of
operations for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

        Effective  July 1, 2003,  the Company  acquired the remaining 82% of the
membership units of Renaissance, which it did not already own. The Company's key
considerations  for the acquisition of Renaissance  included the ability to sell
its  products  into the over  the  counter  ("OTC")  market,  or by  integrating
Renaissance  features into existing NYFIX products to enable customers to have a
single view and access to the OTC and Listed  Securities  marketplaces  from one
workstation.

        The  Company  financed  the July  2003  Renaissance  acquisition  by (i)
exercising its option to convert the outstanding  $1.5 million  promissory note,
plus accrued interest of $0.1 million,  for an additional 32% of the outstanding
membership  units in  Renaissance;  and (ii) acquiring from the  unitholders the
remaining 50% of the membership units in Renaissance,  for a total value of $5.7
million,  by issuing (a) 462,286  shares of its common stock into an irrevocable
trust for the benefit of certain unitholders of Renaissance, having a fair value
of $2.7 million;  (b) promissory notes payable,  at the Company's option, in its
common stock or cash to certain unitholders of Renaissance  maturing in December
2004, having a fair value of $1.3 million;  (c) promissory notes payable, at the
Company's  option,  in its  common  stock  or cash  to  certain  unitholders  of
Renaissance  with annual maturity dates ranging between June 2004 and June 2007,
having a fair  value of $1.3  million;  and (d) 59,653  shares of the  Company's
common stock with selling  restrictions  to certain  unitholders of Renaissance,
having a fair  value of $0.3  million  (see Note 8). The fair value of the notes
was included in "current  portion of long-term debt and other  liabilities"  and
"long-term debt and other liabilities" in the accompanying  consolidated balance
sheets at  December  31, 2004 and  December  31,  2003.  On April 7, 2004 and on
September 27, 2004,  pursuant to notice from certain payees after default on the
promissory  notes, the Company issued,  in the aggregate,  388,616 shares of its
common stock (of which 13,270 was issued from its treasury stock) as payment for
$2.0 million in  principal  amount of such notes.  On July 2, 2004,  the Company
issued  51,828 shares of its common stock as the first  principal  payment under
the promissory notes, valued at $0.2 million. On September 23, 2004, the Company
entered into amended  promissory  notes and settlement  agreements  with certain
unitholders of Renaissance (the "Amended Notes"). Pursuant to the Amended Notes,
on October 27,  2004,  the Company  issued an  additional  20,800  shares of its
common stock to such  unitholders  from its treasury stock in connection  with a
price protection  provision.  As a result,  the Company recorded $0.1 million of
loss on the  extinguishment  of the promissory notes that were in default.  Such
amount  is  included  in  "other  income  (expense),  net"  in the  accompanying
consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.

        In  connection  with  the  acquisition,   the  Company   contributed  to
Renaissance's  capital certain obligations that Renaissance owed to the Company,
including  the  promissory  note  and  advances  aggregating  $3.2  million.  In
addition, the Company acquired 60,000 shares of its common stock, valued at $0.4
million,  that it had  issued in  connection  with its  original  investment  in
Renaissance,  and which Renaissance had acquired.  The Company  classified these
60,000  shares as  "treasury  stock" in the  accompanying  consolidated  balance
sheets at December 31, 2004 and 2003.

        The total purchase price, including the Company's pre-acquisition equity
investment basis of $1.3 million,  was $11.8 million. The excess of the purchase
price over the fair value of the net assets  acquired  was $8.2  million and has
been recorded as goodwill.

                                      F-19

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

JAVELIN

        Javelin  Technologies,  Inc.  (with its  subsidiaries,  "Javelin")  is a
provider  of  electronic  trade   communication   technology  and  FIX  protocol
technology.  The FIX protocol is a messaging standard underlying language, which
was developed to enable  real-time  electronic  trading and  communications.  In
utilizing  the FIX protocol  technology,  companies can eliminate the high costs
and  associated  risks of  developing  their own  proprietary  network links and
implementing a non-standard protocol.

        On March 31, 2002,  the Company  acquired  100% of the capital  stock of
Javelin. Some of the Company's key considerations for the acquisition of Javelin
included   increased   connectivity  to  the  buy-side   institutional   market,
consolidated  product  offering,  including  cross-selling of the Company's core
products and  transaction  services,  and a single point of electronic  exchange
access  across all major  domestic  and  international  equity  and  derivatives
exchanges.

         The Company  financed the  transaction  with a combination of (i) $10.0
million in net cash; (ii) 2,784,896 shares of common stock of the Company having
a fair value of $41.2  million at March 31, 2002;  and (iii)  493,699  shares of
common  stock of the  Company  having a fair value of $3.5  million at March 31,
2002,  reserved for issuance upon  exercise of Javelin stock options  assumed by
the Company.  The Company incurred  approximately $1.2 million in costs directly
associated   with  the   acquisition,   which  were   included  in  the  overall
consideration.  The cash portion of the purchase  price was paid with  available
funds.  The excess of the purchase price of $56.1 million over the fair value of
the net assets acquired was $44.3 million and had been recorded as goodwill

        Of the purchase price, $1.0 million in cash and 270,945 shares of common
stock,  having a fair value of $4.0 million at March 31, 2002, was being held in
escrow by an unrelated party, subject to a final working capital adjustment.  On
March 15, 2004, a representative of the former  shareholders of Javelin executed
a settlement  agreement  with the Company  that,  among other  things,  paid the
Company  $1.2 million and  distributed  the  Company's  common stock held in the
escrow fund to the former Javelin  shareholders.  The Company  recorded the $1.3
million of net proceeds it received from the  settlement in the first quarter of
2004 as a reduction in goodwill.

        In connection with the  acquisition of Javelin,  the Company assumed the
liability  for the servicing of Javelin's  service  maintenance  contracts.  The
Company  accounted for the deferred  revenues related to these service contracts
of Javelin in connection  with the  acquisition  in  accordance  with EITF 01-3,
ACCOUNTING IN A BUSINESS  COMBINATION FOR DEFERRED  REVENUE OF AN ACQUIREE.  The
Company recorded a liability as of the date of the acquisition equal to the fair
value of this  liability  and adjusted the amount for the expected  gross profit
that Javelin  would  normally  realize on service  maintenance  contracts.  Such
amounts  since  the  date  of  acquisition  were  recognized  as  revenue  on  a
straight-line  basis over the remaining  service  maintenance  contract  periods
through March 31, 2003.


NYFIX MILLENNIUM

        NYFIX  Millennium,  a  broker-dealer,  developed an ATS,  which, in this
case,  is an electronic  system that matches  buyers and sellers in a completely
anonymous environment.

        In 1999,  NYFIX  Millennium  was formed by the Company and seven  global
investment  banks and  brokerage  firms  consisting  of the "Initial  Partners":
Deutsche Bank US Financial Markets,  ABN Amro Securities (formerly ING Barings),
Lehman Brothers,  Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Equity  Investments Ltd.,  Alliance
Capital  Management  (formerly  Sanford C.  Bernstein &amp; Co.),  Societe  Generale
Investment Corporation (formerly SG Cowen) and UBS Warburg. The Initial Partners
collectively  invested  $14.0  million  in NYFIX  Millennium  in  exchange a 50%
ownership  interest in NYFIX  Millennium.  The Company invested $2.0 million and
owned the  remaining  50%. The Company  purchased  from the Initial  Partners an
option to buy an additional 30% ownership interest (for a total of 80% ownership

                                      F-20

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

interest) in NYFIX Millennium (the  "Option")by  issuing to the Initial Partners
an aggregate of 1,968,750 shares of the Company's common stock with a fair value
of $34.6 million.  The Option,  which had no expiration date, was exercisable at
any time,  by issuing  additional  shares of the  Company's  common stock to the
Initial Partners. The fair value of the Company's common stock issued to the New
Partners was $20.6 million in excess of the $14 million  Initial  Partners' cash
equity  investment  in NYFIX  Millennium  in 1999.  The Company  allocated  $4.2
million  to the fair  value of the  Option  and  wrote off the  remaining  $16.4
million in 1999. As the Option had an indefinite life, it was not amortized.

        During 2001, NYFIX  Millennium added four "New Partners"  consisting of:
Bank of America,  Wachovia  Securities  (formerly  First Union  Securities)  and
LabMorgan  Corporation  (formerly  J.P.  Morgan &amp; Co.  and Chase  H&amp;Q).  The New
Partners  collectively invested $8.0 million in NYFIX Millennium in exchange for
an  ownership  interest  of NYFIX  Millennium.  To  maintain  its 50%  ownership
interest in NYFIX Millennium,  the Initial Partners agreed to be diluted and the
Company reduced certain of its rights to share future dividend  distributions of
NYFIX Millennium. The Company purchased from the New Partners an option, similar
to the option  purchased  from the Initial  Partners,  to buy an additional  30%
ownership  interest (for a total of 80% ownership  interest) in NYFIX Millennium
by issuing to the New  Partners,  an aggregate  of 376,000  shares of its common
stock with a fair value of $8.4 million.  The fair value of the Company's common
stock  issued to the New  Partners  was $0.4 million in excess of the $8 million
New Partners' cash equity investment in NYFIX Millennium.  The Company allocated
this  $0.4  million  to the  fair  value of the  Option.  As the  Option  had an
indefinite life, it was not amortized.  Hereinafter,  references to the "Option"
include the option received from both the Initial Partners and the New Partners.

        Effective  February  1,  2002,  the  Company  exercised  the  Option and
increased  its ownership  interest in NYFIX  Millennium to 80% by issuing to the
Initial  Partners and New Partners an aggregate of 296,250  shares of its common
stock, with a fair value of $4.5 million.  At the point of exercising the Option
and  regaining  control  of the  NYFIX  Millennium  Board and as a result of the
aforementioned items, the Company's aggregate purchase price of NYFIX Millennium
was $9.1  million,  which  consisted  of: (i) the Option  issued by the  Initial
Partners  with a fair value of $4.2  million;  (ii) the Option issued by the New
Partners with a fair value of $0.4 million, and (iii) the Company's common stock
issued to the Initial  Partners and New Partners for exercise of the Option with
a fair value of $4.5 million on the date of exercise. The Company allocated $2.2
million to the fair value of intangible  assets acquired,  resulting in goodwill
of $7.1 million.  The Company  determined,  in the fourth  quarter of 2003,  the
existence of deferred tax liabilities of $0.2 million related to its acquisition
of an 80% ownership interest in NYFIX Millennium. The Company accounted for this
incremental deferred tax liability as an increase to goodwill.

        As  previously  mentioned in Note 1, the Company  absorbed 100% of NYFIX
Millennium's operating losses from the date of NYFIX Millennium's  inception. If
and when NYFIX  Millennium  achieves  profitability,  24% of its profits will be
allocated  to the  Initial  Partners  and New  Partners in  accordance  with the
contractual agreement amongst the parties.

        Some of the  Company's  key  considerations  for the  acquisition  of an
additional 30% ownership  interest in NYFIX  Millennium  included its ability to
control NYFIX  Millennium's  operations to effect changes in NYFIX  Millennium's
business model as a result of the  attractiveness  of the synergies  anticipated
with the Company's  recently-acquired  NYFIX Transaction Services  broker-dealer
and soon-to-be-acquired Javelin business.

         NYFIX  Millennium's  statement of  operations  for the one month period
ended January 31, 2002 was as follows:

                                      F-21

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

                                         MONTH ENDED
                                          JANUARY 31,
                                             2002
                                      -------------------
                                        (IN THOUSANDS)
Revenue:
  Transaction                             $    77

Cost of Revenue:
  Transaction                                 105
                                          -------

Gross Profit:
Transaction                                   (28)

Operating Expense:
  Selling, general and administrative       1,273
  Depreciation and amortization               117
                                          -------
   Total operating expense                  1,390

Interest expense                              (38)
Interest income                                20
                                          -------
Net loss                                  $(1,436)
                                          =======

         Financial  information  reconciling  NYFIX  Millennium's  statement  of
operations to the Company's equity in loss of NYFIX Millennium for the one month
period ended January 31, 2002 was as follows:

                                         MONTH ENDED
                                          JANUARY 31,
                                             2002
                                        ---------------
                                        (IN THOUSANDS)
Net loss                                  $(1,436)
Elimination of inter-company interest          38
                                          -------
Equity in loss of NYFIX Millennium        $(1,398)
                                          =======

         The equity in loss of NYFIX  Millennium was included in "equity in loss
of  unconsolidated  affiliates" in the  accompanying  consolidated  statement of
operations for the year ended December 31, 2002.

ALLOCATION OF ASSETS ACQUIRED

        The  purchase  prices  of  the  aforementioned  acquisitions  have  been
allocated  to the assets  acquired  and  liabilities  assumed  based on the fair
values at the respective acquisition dates.

                                      F-22

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

                                                              NYFIX
                                    EUROLINK   RENAISSANCE  MILLENNIUM  JAVELIN
                                   ----------  ----------- ----------- --------
Assets:                                         (IN THOUSANDS)
  Current assets                   $   309     $   129     $ 7,600     $ 5,598
  Property and equipment               114       1,175       4,731       1,345
  Intangible assets                    680       3,100       2,200       8,800
  Goodwill                           2,865       8,240       7,106      44,274
  Deferred tax assets                  573        --          --         3,931
  Other assets                         107        --            74         288
                                   -------     -------     -------     -------
    Total assets acquired            4,648      12,644      21,711      64,236
                                   -------     -------     -------     -------
Liabilities:
  Current liabilities                   83         706       3,904       5,244
  Deferred tax liabilities            --         1,753         200       3,600
  Subordinated loan payable to        --          --         6,000        --
    NYFIX, Inc.
  Long-term debt                      --          --          --           166
  Other long-term liabilites          --          --          --           356
                                   -------     -------     -------     -------
    Total liabilities assumed           83       2,459      10,104       9,366
                                   -------     -------     -------     -------
      Net assets acquired          $ 4,565     $10,185     $11,607     $54,870
                                   =======     =======     =======     =======

PRO FORMA EFFECT

        The table below  presents the  summarized  unaudited pro forma  combined
results of operations for the years ended  December 31, 2003 and 2002,  assuming
the  acquisitions of NYFIX  Millennium and Javelin had taken place on January 1,
2002 and the  acquisition  of  Renaissance  had taken place on September 9, 2002
(date of commencement  of operations),  and giving effect to the addition of the
New Partners  and the Option  exercise as of January 1, 2002 and the issuance of
NYFIX shares issued in  connection  with the  acquisition  of  Renaissance.  The
unaudited pro forma  combined  results of operations for both years was prepared
based upon the  historical  results of operations  of the Company,  Renaissance,
NYFIX  Millennium  and Javelin for the  respective  years,  and include  certain
adjustments,  such as  additional  amortization  expense as a result of acquired
intangible assets. The unaudited pro forma combined results of operations do not
include  the 2004  acquisition  of  EuroLink  as its pro  forma  effect  was not
significant.  The unaudited pro forma combined  results of operations  presented
below have been prepared for  comparative  purposes only and do not  necessarily
reflect  future  events  that may occur after the  acquisitions.  As a result of
these assumptions,  estimates and uncertainties,  the accompanying unaudited pro
forma  combined  results of  operations  does not purport to describe the actual
results of operations that would have been achieved had the acquisitions in fact
occurred on the dates  indicated,  nor does it purport to predict the  Company's
future results of operations.

        The summarized  unaudited pro forma combined  results of operations were
as follows:

                                      F-23

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

                                                YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                              ---------------------------
                                                 2003             2002
                                              -----------      ----------
                                                     (IN THOUSANDS,
                                               EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
Revenue                                       $    65,919      $ 59,573
                                              ===========      ========

Net loss                                      $    (6,031)     $(11,413)
                                              ===========      ========

Loss per common share - basic and diluted     $     (0.19)     $  (0.38)
                                              ===========      ========

GOODWILL AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS

        Goodwill  and acquired  intangible  assets at December 31, 2004 and 2003
primarily relate to the Company's 2004 acquisition of EuroLink, 2003 acquisition
of Renaissance and 2002  acquisition of an additional 30% ownership  interest in
NYFIX Millennium and the acquisition of Javelin  described above. In the absence
of  circumstances  requiring  impairment  testing on a  quarterly  or other more
frequent  basis,  the Company has set October 1 as its annual  testing  date for
goodwill impairment. As of October 1, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company performed
its annual tests for  impairment on a reporting  unit basis using the discounted
cash flow valuation  method.  There was no indication of impairment to the value
of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003.

        The Company determined,  in the fourth quarter of 2003, the existence of
deferred tax liabilities  related to its acquisition of NYFIX Millennium of $0.2
million and deferred tax assets  related to the  acquisition  of Javelin of $0.4
million.  The Company  accounted for these  adjustments  in its net deferred tax
asset as adjustments  to goodwill.  In addition,  the Company  recorded the $1.3
million of net  proceeds it received  from the Javelin  settlement  in the first
quarter of 2004 as a reduction in goodwill.

        The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment for
the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows:

                                                TECHNOLOGY    TRANSACTION
                                                 SERVICES      SERVICES        TOTAL
                                                            (IN THOUSANDS)
Balance as of January 1, 2003                    $ 45,921      $  6,940     $ 52,861
Goodwill acquired or (adjusted) during year:
   NYFIX Millennium (adjustment)                     --             200          200
   Javelin (adjustment)                              (397)         --           (397)
   Renaissance                                      8,240          --          8,240
                                                 --------      --------     --------
Balance as of December 31, 2003                    53,764         7,140       60,904
Goodwill acquired or (adjusted) during year:
   EuroLink                                          --           2,865        2,865
   Javelin (adjustment)                            (1,250)         --         (1,250)
                                                 --------      --------     --------
Balance as of December 31, 2004                  $ 52,514      $ 10,005     $ 62,519
                                                 ========      ========     ========

        Acquired  intangible  assets  consisted of the following at December 31,
2004 and 2003:

                                      F-24

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

                                       YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                       -----------------------  USEFUL LIVES
                                            2004       2003       (YEARS)
                                         --------    --------   -------------
                                           (IN THOUSANDS)
Existing technology                      $10,600     $10,600       5 -  7
Customer related intangibles               3,380       2,700         5
Trademarks and other                         800         800       6 - 14
                                         -------     ------
      Total intangible assets, gross      14,780      14,100
Less: Accumulated amortization             6,434       3,865
                                         -------     ------
      Total intangible assets, net       $ 8,346     $10,235
                                         =======     =======

        Amortization  expense of acquired  intangible  assets was $2.6  million,
$2.3  million and $1.6 million for the years ended  December 31, 2004,  2003 and
2002,  respectively, and was  included in "cost of revenue" in the  accompanying
statements of operations.

        Based on identified intangible assets recorded at December 31, 2004, the
future  amortization  expense  for the  next  five  years is  expected  to be as
follows:

                                                                AMOUNT
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31,                                   (IN THOUSANDS)
- ------------------------
2005                                                          $ 2,595
2006                                                            2,595
2007                                                            1,471
2008                                                              631
2009                                                              575
Thereafter                                                        479
                                                             --------
Future amortization expense                                  $ 8,346
                                                             ========

5.      BROKER-DEALER OPERATIONS

BROKER-DEALER NET CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

        The SEC, the NASD and the FSA, as well as other regulatory  agencies and
securities  exchanges within and outside the United States, have stringent rules
with respect to the  maintenance of specific  levels of net capital by regulated
broker-dealers.  These rules include the NASD's and the FSA's net capital rules,
to which the Company's  broker-dealer  subsidiaries are subject.  The failure by
one of these  subsidiaries  to  maintain  its  required  net capital may lead to
suspension or revocation of its  registration  by the SEC and its  suspension or
expulsion  by the  NASD,  the FSA  and  other  United  States  or  international
regulatory bodies, and ultimately could require its liquidation.  In addition, a
change in the net capital  rules,  the  imposition of new rules or any unusually
large  charge  against  the net  capital of one of the  Company's  broker-dealer
subsidiaries could limit that subsidiary's  operations,  particularly those that
are  capital  intensive.  A large  charge  to the net  capital  of one of  these
subsidiaries  could  result  from an  error or other  operational  failure  or a
failure of a customer  to  complete  one or more  transactions,  including  as a
result of that  customer's  insolvency  or other  credit  difficulties,  and the
Company  cannot assure that it would be able to furnish the affected  subsidiary
with the  requisite  additional  capital to offset that charge.  The net capital
rules could also  restrict the  Company's  ability to withdraw  capital from its
broker-dealer subsidiaries,  which could limit the Company's ability to pay cash
dividends,  repay  debt  or  repurchase  shares  of  its  outstanding  stock.  A
significant  operating  loss or any unusually  large charge  against net capital
could adversely affect the Company's financial condition,  results of operations
or cash flows.

                                      F-25

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

        NYFIX  Clearing   Corporation  ("NYFIX  Clearing"),   NYFIX  Transaction
Services Inc., and NYFIX Millennium, as registered  broker-dealers,  are subject
to the minimum net capital requirements of the NASD. NYFIX  International,  as a
broker-dealer  registered with the FSA in the United Kingdom, is also subject to
minimum net capital  requirements.  In 2003, the Company funded $10.8 million to
NYFIX  Clearing  to  enable  it to  maintain  its  minimum  excess  net  capital
requirement  of $10.0  million as a condition of its approval by the  Depository
Trust and  Clearing  Corporation  ("DTCC").  In 2004,  the  Company  provided an
aggregate   additional   capital  of  $1.3   million  in  the  form  of  capital
contributions  and  subordinated  loans to  enable  its  US-based  broker-dealer
subsidiaries  to  individually  and   collectively   exceed  their  net  capital
requirements,  and another $1.3 million to NYFIX  International in the form of a
capital  contribution  as a condition of NYFIX  International's  approval by the
FSA.  At  December  31,  2004,  the  Company's  broker-dealer  subsidiaries  had
aggregate net capital of $12.7  million,  which  exceeded the aggregate  minimum
and, in the case of NYNEX Clearing,  its excess minimum net capital  required by
$1.7 million. The Company's  broker-dealer  subsidiaries may need the Company to
fund or commit more of its consolidated  cash,  cash-equivalents  and short-term
investments  in the future to  maintain  their  individual  minimum  and minimum
excess  net  capital  requirements.   If  any  or  all  of  these  broker-dealer
subsidiaries  were to fall below  their  minimum or minimum  excess net  capital
requirements, their operations may be restricted.

SECURITIES BORROWED AND SECURITIES LOANED

        In  the  normal  course  of its  brokerage  clearing  operations,  NYFIX
Clearing  settles  customer  securities  transactions.  This activity may expose
NYFIX  Clearing  to  off-balance  sheet risk  arising  from the  potential  that
customers or counterparties may fail to satisfy their obligations.  In the event
customers and counterparties  fail to satisfy their obligations,  NYFIX Clearing
may be required to purchase or sell financial instruments, at unfavorable market
prices,  to satisfy  those  obligations.  NYFIX  Clearing  mitigates the risk of
customer  non-performance  by  requiring  introducing  brokers to maintain  cash
deposits. NYFIX Clearing believes that the settlement of these transactions will
not have a material effect on NYFIX Clearing's statement of financial condition.

        Liabilities  to brokers and dealers  related to  unsettled  transactions
(i.e.,  securities  failed-to-receive) are recorded at the amounts for which the
securities  were acquired and are paid upon receipt of the securities from other
brokers or  dealers.  In the case of aged  securities  failed-to-receive,  NYFIX
Clearing may, under industry regulations,  purchase the underlying securities in
the market and seek reimbursement for any losses from the counterparty.

        NYFIX Clearing's customer financing and securities settlement activities
require  NYFIX  Clearing  to pledge  customer  securities  in support of secured
financing sources such as securities  loaned. In the event that the counterparty
is unable to meet its  contractual  obligation  to  return  customer  securities
pledged as  collateral,  NYFIX  Clearing may be exposed to the risk of acquiring
the  securities  at  prevailing  market  prices  in  order to  satisfy  customer
obligations. NYFIX Clearing controls this risk by monitoring the market value of
securities  pledged on a daily basis and  requiring  adjustments  of  collateral
levels in the event of excess  market  exposure.  Additionally,  NYFIX  Clearing
establishes credit limits for such activities and monitors compliance on a daily
basis.  At December 31, 2004,  the market value of customer  securities  pledged
under these secured financing transactions approximated the amounts due.

        NYFIX  Clearing may at times,  because of  processing  errors,  maintain
equity  securities on both a long and short basis. Both long and short positions
may result in losses or gains to NYFIX  Clearing as market  value of  securities
fluctuate.  Long  and  short  positions  are  marked  to  market  daily  and are
continuously  monitored  by NYFIX  Clearing  with the  intent to  liquidate  the
positions.  NYFIX  Clearing is engaged in various  trading  activities  in which
counterparties primarily include broker-dealers.  In the event counterparties do
not fulfill their obligations, NYFIX Clearing may be exposed to credit risk. The
risk of default depends on the creditworthiness of the counterparty. It is NYFIX
Clearing's  policy  to  review,  as  necessary,  the  credit  standing  of  each

                                      F-26

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

counterparty.   NYFIX  Clearing  does  not  anticipate   nonperformance  by  the
counterparties in the above situations.

        NYFIX  Clearing  earns  interest  revenue  from the cash  collateral  it
provides to the lender of securities  and pays  interest on the cash  collateral
received  from the  borrower of the  securities.  Net  revenue  related to these
securities loan transactions, which commenced in December 2003, was $0.1 million
and nil for the years ended  December 31, 2004 and 2003,  respectively,  and was
included in "transaction revenue" in the accompanying  consolidated statement of
operations.  "Securities borrowed" and "securities loaned" are recorded based on
the  amounts  of  cash  collateral  advanced  or  received  in the  accompanying
consolidated balance sheets.

        Securities  borrowed consisted of the following at December 31, 2004 and
2003:

                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                            -----------------------
                                               2004       2003
                                            ---------    ---------
                                                (IN THOUSANDS)
Stock receivable (matched and reserved)     $136,187     $  1,466
Other                                          2,269          479
                                            --------     --------
      Total securities borrowed             $138,456     $  1,945
                                            ========     ========

        Securities  loaned  consisted of the  following at December 31, 2004 and
2003:

                                       DECEMBER 31,
                                 ----------------------
                                    2004        2003
                                 --------     ---------
                                     (IN THOUSANDS)
Stock payable                    $136,229     $  1,385
Other                               2,146          315
                                 --------     --------
     Total securities loaned     $138,375     $  1,700
                                 ========     ========

6.      RESTRUCTURING CHARGE

        Effective  February 1, 2004,  the Company  entered  into an agreement to
lease  additional  space at its New York City  offices  at 100 Wall  Street.  In
connection with this agreement, the Company ceased use, in the second quarter of
2004, of one of its other offices on Wall Street,  consolidated  its  operations
into the new space and eliminated 14 staff  positions.  In accordance  with SFAS
No. 146,  ACCOUNTING  FOR EXIT OR DISPOSAL  ACTIVITIES,  the Company  recorded a
charge to operations of $2.5 million as of June 30, 2004.  This charge  included
the fair  value of the  remaining  rent  payments  (net of  estimated  sub-lease
income), severance and write-offs of property and equipment.

        The  Company  included  the  restructuring   charge  liabilities  within
"current  portion of long-term debt and other  liabilities"  and "long-term debt
and  other  liabilities"  in the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheet  at
December  31, 2004,  and  classified  the  operating  expense as  "restructuring
charge" in the  accompanying  consolidated  statement of operations for the year
ended December 31, 2004. The  restructuring  charge  established by the Company,
and activities related thereto, are summarized as follows:

                                      F-27

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

                                    BALANCE AT                            NON-CASH    BALANCE AT
                                    JANUARY 1,                  CASH      USES AND    DECEMBER 31,
                                     2004          CHARGES      USES       OTHER       2004
                                 -------------    ----------  ---------   -------     -----------
                                                       (in thousands)
Lease costs, net of              $        --       $2,097     $ (501)     $  144      $1,740
  estimated sublease income
Property and equipment                    --          319       --          (319)       --
  write-offs
Severance                                 --          111        (96)        (15)       --
                                 -------------     ------     ------      ------      ------
                      Total      $        --       $2,527     $ (597)     $ (190)      1,740
                                 =============     ======     ======      ======
                                 Less: current portion                                   524
                                                                                      ------
                                 Long-term portion                                    $1,216
                                                                                      ======

7.      OTHER BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION

        Prepaid  expenses and other current assets  consisted of the following
at December 31, 2004 and 2003:

                                                              DECEMBER 31,
                                                          --------------------
                                                            2004       2003
                                                          -------    -------
                                                             (IN THOUSANDS)
Income taxes receivable                                   $1,338     $1,350
Prepaid expenses                                           1,010      1,246
Inventory                                                    895        806
Other                                                        698        527
                                                          ------     ------
      Total prepaid expenses and other current assets     $3,941     $3,929
                                                          ======     ======

        Other  assets,  net  consisted of the following at December 31, 2004 and
2003:

                                            DECEMBER 31,
                                      ---------------------
                                        2004        2003
                                      --------    --------
                                          (IN THOUSANDS)
Product enhancement costs, gross      $23,107     $16,625
Less: Accumulated amortization         13,932      10,046
                                      -------     -------
   Product enhancement costs, net       9,175       6,579
Other, net                              1,729         799
                                      -------     -------
      Total other assets, net         $10,904     $ 7,378
                                      =======     =======

        Amortization  expense  of  deferred  product  enhancement  costs of $3.9
million,  $2.7 million and $2.4  million for the years ended  December 31, 2004,
2003  and  2002,  respectively,  was  included  in  "cost  of  revenue"  on  the
accompanying  consolidated  statements of  operations.  Amortization  expense of
other  assets of $74,000,  $13,000 and $4,000 for the years ended  December  31,
2004,  2003  and  2002,   respectively,   was  included  in  "depreciation   and
amortization expense" on the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

        Accrued  expenses  consisted  of the  following at December 31, 2004 and
2003:

                                      F-28

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

                                      DECEMBER 31,
                                   ------------------
                                    2004       2003
                                   --------   ------
                                     (IN THOUSANDS)
Taxes, other than income taxes     $2,858     $2,360
Payroll and payroll related         1,883      1,260
Commissions                           810        643
Other                               2,028      1,179
                                   ------     ------
      Total accrued expenses       $7,579     $5,442
                                   ======     ======

8.      DEBT AND CAPITAL LEASE OBLIGATIONS

CONVERTIBLE DEBT

        On December 30, 2004, the Company issued a $7.5 million Convertible Note
with an interest rate of 5% due in December 2009 (the "Note")  through a private
placement  to a lender.  The  interest  is payable in cash or, at the  Company's
option as  described  below,  by the  issuance  of shares of its  common  stock,
semi-annually in arrears on June 30 and December 30 of each year, beginning June
30, 2005.

        The Note is subordinated to all existing and future secured indebtedness
of the  Company.  The lender has  certain  rights  which  require the Company to
register the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Note or for payment of
interest,  under the  Securities  Act of 1933,  as  amended.  Such  registration
statement is to be effective by September 30, 2005 and if it is not, the Company
will be  required  to pay  additional  interest,  in cash,  for each  month  the
effectiveness  is delayed.  The additional  interest  varies by month and has an
aggregate cap of $500,000 for the duration of the Note.

        The entire  outstanding  principal  amount of the Note together with all
accrued  but unpaid  interest is due in cash on December  30,  2009;  and except
under certain  conditions,  the Company has no right of early  prepayment on the
Note.

        At the option of the lender,  the Note is convertible into the Company's
common stock at $6.94 per common share, which was a 20% premium over the average
of the Company's  common stock closing price for the five trading days preceding
December 30, 2004. At the option of the Company,  the Note is  convertible  into
its common stock  according to a formula based on the market price of that stock
during the term of the Note which  requires among other things for the Company's
common stock to exceed  $10.41 per common  share,  which is 150% of the price at
which the lender can convert the Note. If the Company converts the Note prior to
December  30,  2007,  the Company is required  to pay an  additional  make-whole
interest  payment  in  either  cash  or the  Company's  stock  at the  Company's
discretion.  The Company  determined that the conversion feature and a change in
control provision of the Note are embedded derivatives that require bifurcation,
in accordance  with SFAS No. 133,  ACCOUNTING  FOR  DERIVATIVE  INSTRUMENTS  AND
HEDGING  ACTIVITIES.   However,  the  Company  determined  that  these  embedded
derivatives  were  not  significant  and  therefore  did  not  require  separate
accounting treatment at December 31, 2004.

        If the  Company  issues its common  stock in lieu of cash to convert the
Note or to make  interest  payments,  or any  portion  thereof,  the  Company is
required to have an effective  registration statement covering the public resale
of such shares and pay a 5% premium  based on an average of the closing price of
its common stock for the previous ten trading days.

        As a result of the restatement of the Company's financial statements for
the year  ended  December  31,  2003,  the  Company  was in  breach  of  certain
representations  and  warranties  relating to those  financial  statements  that
constituted  an event of  default  under the Note.  On June 24 2005,  the lender

                                      F-29

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

waived  all  defaults  under the Note and  extended  the  requirement  to have a
registration statement be effective for the shares of the Company's common stock
that may be issued as payment of principal  or interest  under the Note to March
31,  2006.  In  exchange,  the  Company  agreed to reduce the price at which the
lender  can  convert  the Note into its common  stock  from $6.94 per share,  as
described above, to $5.75 per share, which was a 16% premium over the average of
the Company's  common stock  closing price for the five trading days  preceeding
June 24, 2005.  Accordingly,  the Company's  option to convert the Note into its
common  stock is based on the market  price of its stock  during the term of the
Note which requires,  among other things, the common stock to exceed 150% of the
price (or $8.63 per  common  share on a revised  basis) at which the  lender can
convert the Note.

        In addition,  at the option of the lender,  the Company may issue to the
lender up to an additional $2.5 million note under terms  substantially  similar
to those of the Note.  In March  2005,  the lender  requested,  and the  Company
agreed to extend the termination date of the option to issue the additional $2.5
million  note from March 30,  2005 to until ten days after the date the  Company
files its 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

OTHER DEBT

        The  Company  borrowed  $1.1  million  in August  2004 from a  financial
institution   with  which  it  has  an   investment   portfolio.   The  loan  is
collateralized  by the  investment  portfolio,  which  principally  consists  of
auction rate  certificates.  The loan is payable at any time,  at the  Company's
discretion,  and  accrues  interest  at a rate of LIBOR plus 1.5%.  The  average
interest  rate for the period from August 2004 through  December  2004 was 3.5%.
The outstanding amount due was $0.4 million at December 31, 2004.

        In  connection  with  the  acquisition  of  the  remaining  82%  of  the
membership units of Renaissance, the Company issued promissory notes with a face
value of $3 million.  The notes,  which have been  discounted  at 5.5%,  to $2.7
million,  are  payable at the  Company's  option in its common  stock or cash to
certain  unitholders of Renaissance  with various maturity dates ranging between
June 2004 and June 2007. In April 2004,  pursuant to notice from certain  payees
after  default on the notes,  the Company  issued  375,346  shares of its common
stock in payment of $2.0 million of such notes. In July 2004, the Company issued
51,828  shares of its  common  stock as the first  principal  payment  under the
promissory notes, valued at $0.2 million. In September 2004, the Company entered
into amended promissory notes and settlement agreements with certain unitholders
of  Renaissance  (the  "Amended  Notes").  Pursuant  to the  Amended  Notes,  in
September 2004 and October 2004, the Company issued an additional  13,270 shares
and 20,800  shares of its common  stock to such  unitholders  from its  treasury
stock.

        In connection with the acquisition of the remaining 60% of EuroLink, the
Company issued  promissory  notes with a face value of $0.5 million.  The notes,
which have been discounted at 5.5%, were payable at the Company`s  option in its
common  stock or cash on April 28,  2005.  The Company  intends to pay the notes
using its  common  stock.  Due to the  delay in  issuing  its 2004  consolidated
financial  statements,  the  Company  was  unable to issue its  common  stock to
satisfy this debt.  The Company  intends to settle this  obligation  through the
issuance of common stock as soon as practicable  subsequent to the filing of its
2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

        Annual  maturities on long-term  debt,  including  convertible  debt and
other debt, outstanding at December 31, 2004 were as follows:

                                      F-30

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

                                                            AMOUNT
                                                        --------------
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31,                                (IN THOUSANDS)
- ------------------------
2005                                                      $ 1,102
2006                                                          218
2007                                                          218
2008                                                            -
2009                                                        7,500
                                                          -------
     Total                                                $ 9,038
                                                          =======

CAPITAL LEASE OBLIGATIONS

        At December 31, 2004,  the Company was  committed  under  capital  lease
obligations  with  interest  rates  ranging from 4.24% to 15.30% for  maturities
ranging  from  February 7, 2005 to November  1, 2007.  At December  31, 2004 and
2003,  capital lease  obligations  were $1.4 million and $0.7 million,  of which
$0.5  million and $0.6  million was  classified  as a current  liability  in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

        Certain  leases  require  payment  of  property  taxes,   insurance  and
maintenance  costs in addition to the rent  payments.  Contingent and escalation
rent in excess of minimum rent payments was insignificant.  Future minimum lease
payments,  net of sub-lease rental income of $2.5 million,  under non-cancelable
capital and operating  leases with lease terms in excess of one year at December
31, 2004 were as follows:

                                                   CAPITAL          OPERATING
                                                 -----------    ----------------
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31,                              (in thousands)
- ------------------------
2005                                             $    585            $  4,875
2006                                                  449               3,735
2007                                                  515               3,493
2008                                                   -                3,383
2009                                                   -                1,828
Thereafter                                             -                9,022
                                                ------------        ---------
      Total minimum payments                       1,549             $ 26,336
                                                                     ========
Less: amount representing interest                  143
                                               ------------
     Present value of minimum capital
        lease payments                          $ 1,406
                                                ===========

        Rent  expense was $4.8  million,  $6.2  million and $4.6 million for the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

9.      COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

PURCHASE OBLIGATIONS

        The   Company   has   minimum   purchase    obligations   with   certain
telecommunication providers due to expire at various dates in 2005 through 2009.
Under such  arrangements,  the Company  has agreed to minimum  monthly or annual
purchase  volumes in exchange for pricing  discounts from the  telecommunication
providers.  There  have been no  instances  of the  Company  failing to meet its
minimum obligations.

        The  Company  also  has  certain  maintenance   agreement  and  purchase
obligations  on data  center  software  due to expire  in 2006 that the  Company
committed to when it purchased the software  licenses.  Under such arrangements,
the Company is invoiced quarterly by the software provider.

                                      F-31

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

        The Company also has a licensing arrangement with a third-party software
developer  due to  expire  in 2007,  with  automatic  one year  renewals  unless
terminated  by either party with prior  written  notice,  whereby the Company is
committed to a minimum licensing fee of $50,000 per month.

        Annual  minimum  purchase  obligations  at  December  31,  2004  were as
follows:


                                                            AMOUNT
                                                        -------------
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31,                                (IN THOUSANDS)
- ------------------------
   2005                                                   $ 4,734
   2006                                                     3,532
   2007                                                     1,327
   2008                                                       364
   2009                                                       146
                                                         --------
     Total                                                $10,103
                                                         ========

LITIGATION

        On May 13, 2004, an action entitled FULLER &amp; THALER ASSET  MANAGEMENT V.
NYFIX,  INC.,  ET AL.  was filed in the  United  States  District  Court for the
District of Connecticut.  The complaint named the Company, its Chairman and CEO,
its former CFO, its current CFO and certain of its directors as defendants.  The
complaint was filed as a purported class action claim on behalf of all buyers of
the  Company's  stock  between  March 30,  2000 and March 30,  2004 and seeks an
unspecified  amount of damages.  The  complaint  alleged  violations of Sections
10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act"),  based
on the  issuance  of a  series  of  allegedly  false  and  misleading  financial
statements  and press  releases  concerning,  among other things,  the Company's
investment in NYFIX  Millennium.  On July 20, 2004,  the court  appointed  three
different  plaintiffs  to be the lead  plaintiffs,  as  Fuller  &amp;  Thaler  Asset
Management withdrew as the named plaintiff. The action became styled JOHNSON, ET
AL. V. NYFIX,  INC., ET AL. On August 19, 2004, the newly named plaintiffs filed
a first  amended  class  action  complaint,  which  added,  among other  things,
allegations  of violations of Sections 11 and 15 of the  Securities Act of 1933,
as amended.  The new allegations are based fundamentally on the same allegations
that the plaintiffs  asserted in the original  complaint.  The  defendants  have
filed a motion to dismiss  the amended  complaint  with  prejudice.  The Company
believes that this amended complaint,  like the original  complaint,  is without
merit.  Although it is not  possible  to forecast  the outcome of this matter at
this time, the Company intends to vigorously defend against the complaint.

        During the course of normal  business,  the Company becomes  involved in
various routine legal proceedings. The Company believes that it is not presently
a party to any other material  litigation the outcome of which could  reasonably
be  expected to have a material  adverse  effect on its  consolidated  financial
statements.

SEC MATTERS

        In connection  with the Company's  restatement  of its 1999 through 2002
consolidated  financial  statements in May 2004,  the Division of Enforcement of
the SEC  informed  the  Company  by  letter  dated  July 14,  2004,  that it was
conducting an informal inquiry. On January 25, 2005, the Company filed a current
report on Form 8-K,  which  indicated that the matter was a formal  inquiry.  By
letter dated October 28, 2004,  the Division of  Enforcement of the SEC informed
the Company that it was conducting a second informal  inquiry,  which related to
the Company's stock options  granted.  On February 25, 2005, the Company filed a

                                      F-32

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

current report on Form 8-K, which  indicated that the Company  believed that the
matter  was a formal  inquiry.  The  Company  is  cooperating  with the SEC with
respect to both matters.  The Company is unable to predict the outcome of either
matter at this time and can give no  assurances  that the  outcome  of either or
both matters will not have a material impact on the Company.

10.     EQUITY

COMMON STOCK

        As  described  in Note 4, on July 2, 2004,  the  Company  issued  51,828
shares of its common stock to certain  unitholders  of  Renaissance as the first
principal payment under the promissory notes,  valued at $0.2 million.  On April
7, 2004,  pursuant to notice from certain payees after default on the promissory
notes, the Company issued 375,346 shares of its common stock as payment for $2.0
million in principal amount of such notes.

        In  connection  with the  acquisitions  mentioned in Note 4, the Company
issued i) an aggregate of 296,250 shares of common stock to the NYFIX Millennium
Initial  Partners and New Partners in February  2002,  with a fair value of $4.5
million,  ii) an  aggregate  of  2,784,896  shares  of common  stock to  Javelin
stockholders  in  March  2002,  with a fair  value  of  $41.2  million;  iii) an
aggregate of 300,000  shares of common stock to the  Renaissance  unitholders in
October  2002,  with a fair value of $1.1  million,  iv) an aggregate of 462,286
shares of common  stock  into an  irrevocable  trust for the  benefit of certain
unitholders of Renaissance in July 2003, with a fair value of $2.7 million;  and
v)  an  aggregate  of  59,653  shares  of  common  stock  with  certain  selling
restrictions  to certain  unitholders of  Renaissance in July 2003,  with a fair
value of $0.3 million.

STOCKHOLDERS' RIGHTS PLAN

        On  September 1, 1997,  the Board of Directors  declared a dividend of a
preference share purchase right (a "Right") for each outstanding share of common
stock of the Company held by  stockholders of record on September 19, 1997. Each
share of common stock issued by the Company  after such record date has the same
Right attached  thereto.  Each Right entitles the registered  holder to purchase
from the Company,  at any time after a  stockholder  acquires 20% or more of the
Company's outstanding common stock, as set forth in the Rights Agreement, shares
of the Company's  Series A Preferred Stock  ("Preference  Stock").  The purchase
price is $40 per one  one-hundredth of a share of Preference  Stock,  subject to
adjustment as set forth in the Rights Agreement.

TREASURY STOCK

        As described in Note 4, pursuant to the Amended Notes,  on September 27,
2004 and October 27, 2004,  the Company  issued 13,270 shares and 20,800 shares,
respectively, of its common stock from its treasury stock to certain unitholders
of Renaissance.

        On July 1, 2003, in connection with its acquisition of Renaissance,  the
Company  acquired  60,000  shares  of its  common  stock  that it had  issued to
Renaissance   unitholders  in  connection   with  its  original   investment  in
Renaissance,  and which  Renaissance  had  subsequently  acquired.  The  Company
recorded the receipt of the treasury  stock at the then current  market value of
$0.4 million.

11.     INCOME TAXES

        The tax effects of temporary  differences that give rise to the deferred
tax assets and deferred tax  liabilities  consisted of the following at December
31, 2004 and 2003:

                                      F-33

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

                                                                        DECEMBER 31,
                                                                 -----------------------
                                                                   2004          2003
                                                                 --------      ---------
Deferred tax assets:                                                   (IN THOUSANDS)
  Bad debt expense                                               $    985      $    858
  Deferred revenue                                                    913           896
  Intangible asset amortization                                       416          --
  Compensation expense attributable to stock options granted        2,376         2,346
  Restructuring charge                                                733          --
  Capitalized product enhancement costs                             1,416           985
  Net operating loss carryforwards                                 14,398         9,413
  Basis in NYFIX Millennium                                         3,703         2,878
  Equity investment in Eurolink                                      --             373
  Research and development tax credits                              1,768         1,596
  Other                                                               475           586
                                                                 --------      --------
    Total deferred tax assets                                      27,183        19,931
                                                                 --------      --------
Deferred tax liabilities:
  Depreciation and amortization                                       952           777
  Intangible asset amortization                                      --             931
  Basis difference in goodwill related to Renaissance               1,753         1,133
  Other                                                               340            16
                                                                 --------      --------
    Total deferred tax liabilities                                  3,045         2,857
                                                                 --------      --------
    Total deferred tax assets, gross                               24,138        17,074
Valuation allowance                                               (25,555)         --
                                                                 --------      --------
    Total deferred tax (liabilities) assets, net                 $ (1,417)     $ 17,074
                                                                 ========      ========

        At December 31, 2004, the Company had net operating  loss  carryforwards
of $31.0 million, which may be used to offset future taxable income, if any. The
Company's Federal net operating loss carryforwards expire between 2020 and 2024.
A portion of the  Company's  Federal  net  operating  loss  carryforwards  ($4.1
million)  associated  with the  Javelin  acquisition  is  subject  to an  annual
limitation  of $2.2 million,  as defined in Section 382 of the Internal  Revenue
Code.  At  December  31,  2004,   the  Company  had  state  net  operating  loss
carryforwards of $5.0 million expiring at various dates. As described in Note 1,
the Company  established a valuation  allowance of $25.6 million on its deferred
tax assets at December  31,  2004 in  accordance  with SFAS No.  109.  Until the
Company can achieve and sustain an appropriate level of profitability,  it plans
to maintain a valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets. The total deferred
tax  liabilities  as of December 31, 2004 were included in  "long-term  debt and
other liabilities" in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.

        The  exercise  of  non-qualified  stock  options  and the  disqualifying
dispositions  of incentive  stock options under the Company's stock option plans
give rise to  compensation  which is  includable  in the  taxable  income of the
recipients  and  deductible  by the Company  for  Federal  and state  income tax
purposes.  The tax benefit  recognized  from the  utilization of such deductions
increased  additional  paid-in  capital by $45,000 and $0.2  million  during the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

        Compensation expense attributable to non-qualified stock options granted
gives rise to a temporary  difference  and is not  deductible by the Company for
Federal and state income tax purposes  until stock options are  exercised.  When
stock  options are  canceled  prior to being  exercised,  the  Company  does not
receive any tax benefit and records the  reduction  of the deferred tax asset as
an offset to  "additional  paid-in  capital"  on the  accompanying  consolidated
balance sheets.  Such reductions in deferred tax assets related to cancellations
were $0.1 million and $0.2 million  during the years ended December 31, 2004 and
2003, respectively.

                                      F-34

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

        The reconciliation between the Federal statutory income tax rate and the
Company's  effective  income tax (benefit) rate for the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002 was as follows:


                                                  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                               ----------------------------
                                                 2004      2003      2002
                                               --------   -------  --------

Statutory Federal tax (benefit) rate             (35)%     (35)%     (35)%
State and local taxes, net of federal effect      (6)%      (6)%      (4)%
Research and development tax credits              (1)%      (6)%      (8)%
Equity loss in NYFIX Millennium                  --        --          6 %
Valuation allowance                              188 %     --        --
Other                                             (6)%      (1)%       3 %
                                               -----     -----    ------
      Effective tax (benefit) rate               140 %     (48)%     (38)%
                                               =====     =====    ======

        The Company  received  no income tax benefit  from its equity in loss of
NYFIX  Millennium of $1.4 million for the year ending December 31, 2002 as these
losses were  allocated  to the Initial  Partners and the New Partners for income
tax purposes.

        Research  and  development  tax credits of $0.2 million and $0.6 million
for the  years  ended  December  31,  2004 and  2003  related  primarily  to the
estimated tax effect of research and development  expenses  incurred in 2004 and
2003, respectively. Research and development tax credits of $0.9 million for the
year ended  December 31, 2002 related  primarily to the  estimated tax effect of
research and development expenses incurred in 1999 through 2002.

        Loss before income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and
2002 was as follows:


                                              YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                      --------------------------------------
                                        2004         2003          2002
                                      ---------  --------------   ----------
                                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
Domestic                              $(13,419)     $ (9,282)     $ (9,578)
Foreign                                   (220)         (204)       (1,719)
                                      --------      --------      --------
      Total                           $(13,639)     $ (9,486)     $(11,297)
                                      ========      ========      ========

        Significant  components  of the income tax  provision  (benefit) for the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 were as follows:

                                                         YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                  -------------------------------------
                                                    2004        2003             2002
                                                  --------  ---------------   ---------
                                                            (IN THOUSANDS)

Current Federal                                   $   --        $   (364)     $ (1,422)
                                                  --------      --------      --------
Deferred:
   Federal                                          (3,649)       (3,150)       (2,128)
   State and foreign                                (2,888)       (1,057)         (740)
   Valuation allowance                              25,600          --            --
                                                  --------      --------      --------
      Total deferred                                19,063        (4,207)       (2,868)
                                                  --------      --------      --------
         Total income tax provision (benefit)     $ 19,063      $ (4,571)     $ (4,290)
                                                  ========      ========      ========

                                      F-35

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

12.     LOSS PER SHARE

        The Company's  basic loss per common share ("EPS") was calculated  based
on the net loss available to common stockholders and the weighted-average number
of shares  outstanding during the reporting period.  Stock options  representing
810,552,  881,681  and  926,815  shares  were  excluded  from the loss per share
calculations for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively,
as their effect was anti-dilutive.

                                                     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                             ----------------------------------------
                                                  2004         2003           2002
                                             -------------  -----------     ---------
                                             (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
Net loss                                      $  (32,702)    $   (4,915)    $ (7,007)
                                              ==========     ==========     ========
Loss per common share - basic and diluted     $    (1.02)    $    (0.16)    $  (0.23)
                                              ==========     ==========     ========
Weighted average shares outstanding               32,214         31,462       30,126
                                              ==========     ==========     ========

13.     RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

        The Initial  Partners and the New Partners of NYFIX Millennium (see Note
4) are or have been customers of the Company.

        At December 31, 2003, the Company had a note receivable of $70,000, plus
accrued interest,  from a former officer of the Company,  in connection with his
exercise of options for the Company's common stock, with an annual interest rate
of 5.5%,  and a maturity date of May 13, 2004.  Such note was included in "notes
receivable issued for common stock" within  stockholders' equity at December 31,
2003 on the accompanying  consolidated  balance sheet. In addition,  at December
31, 2003, the Company had a note receivable of $300,000,  plus accrued  interest
from the same  former  officer,  with an  annual  interest  rate of 5.5%,  and a
maturity  date of July 2, 2004.  Such note was included in "prepaid  expense and
other  current  assets" at December  31, 2003 on the  accompanying  consolidated
balance sheet.

        On July 27, 2004, the Company  received  notes from the former  officer,
noted  above,  for $76,000 and $318,000 to replace the notes that matured on May
13, 2004 and July 2, 2004, respectively. Both new notes mature on July 27, 2006,
accrue interest annually at 4.0%, may be prepaid at any time without penalty and
are collateralized by assets in a brokerage account of the former officer, which
primarily consist of shares of the Company's stock.  Subsequent to July 27, 2004
and through  December 31, 2004,  repayments  were made in the amounts of $10,000
and $33,000, respectively.  Such notes were included in "notes receivable issued
for common stock" within stockholders' equity and "other assets,"  respectively,
at December  31,  2004 on the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheet.  In a
separate  transaction,  the former  officer  received an unsecured  loan from an
individual  who was a director of the Company until  October 2004.  The proceeds
from the loan were used to  exercise  stock  options to purchase  the  Company's
common stock,  which is included in the  collateral,  and to repay  principal of
$23,000 due on the new notes.

        On July 10,  2002,  the  Company  received  a note  from the then  Chief
Operating  Officer of a subsidiary for $71,000.  Such note bore interest at 5.5%
per annum and was  scheduled  to mature on July 10,  2004.  The note was paid in
full on May 27, 2004.

14.     EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

        The  Company  sponsors  a 401(k)  retirement  plan (the  "401(k)  Plan")
covering  substantially  all of its United States employees who meet eligibility
requirements. The 401(k) Plan permits participants to contribute a percentage of
their  annual  compensation,  as  defined,  not to exceed the  Federal  limit of
$13,000 in 2004.  The 401(k) Plan  permits the Company to match  employees'  tax
deferred contributions up to a maximum of 3% of employees' compensation provided

                                      F-36

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

the  Company  employs  the  employee  at  the  end of the  year.  The  Company's
contributions under the Plan are discretionary.

        As a result of the Company's  acquisition  of Javelin on March 31, 2002,
the Company  assumed  Javelin's  401(k)  retirement  plan (the  "Javelin  401(k)
Plan").  The  Javelin  401(k)  Plan  permitted   participants  to  contribute  a
percentage of their annual  compensation,  as defined, not to exceed the Federal
limits.  The Javelin  401(k) Plan  required the Company to  contribute an amount
equal to 3% of the employees' compensation, regardless of their participation in
the plan. Remaining contributions under the Plan were discretionary.  On July 1,
2003,  the  Javelin  401(k)  Plan was merged  into the 401(k) Plan with the same
provisions as the 401(k) Plan.

        The Company also maintains  various benefit plans for its  international
employees. The Company may make discretionary contributions to these plans.

        The aggregate cost of contributions  made by the Company to all employee
benefit plans were $0.8 million, $0.6 million and $0.6 million in 2004, 2003 and
2002, respectively.

15.     STOCK OPTION PLANS

2001 STOCK OPTION PLAN

        On March 13, 2001,  the  Company's  Board of Directors  adopted the 2001
Stock Option Plan (the "2001 Plan") for which a total of 2,000,000 shares of the
Company's  common  stock  have been  reserved  for  issuance.  The 2001 Plan was
approved at the Company's  Annual Meeting of Stockholders  held on June 4, 2001.
In 2002,  the Company  adopted an  amendment  to the 2001 Plan,  to increase the
total number of shares of the  Company's  common stock  reserved for issuance to
3,500,000 shares. This amendment was approved at the Company's Annual Meeting of
Stockholders held on June 10, 2002.  Pursuant to the 2001 Plan, as amended,  the
Company  may grant  stock  options and stock  purchase  rights to the  Company's
employees,  officers,  directors and consultants.  The Board of Directors,  or a
committee  to whom the  Board of  Directors  has  delegated  authority,  selects
individuals to whom options are granted.  Options  generally become  exercisable
over a  three-year  period  and  expire  in ten  years.  The  exercise  price of
incentive  stock  options  granted under the 2001 Plan must be at least equal to
the fair market value of the Company's  stock at the date of grant,  as defined.
The 2001 Plan was  effective  on May 1, 2001 and expires on April 30,  2011.  At
December 31, 2004,  stock options to purchase  3,164,833 shares of the Company's
common stock were outstanding.

JAVELIN STOCK OPTION PLAN

        As a result of the Company's  acquisition  of Javelin on March 31, 2002,
the Company assumed the  outstanding  stock options of Javelin that were granted
pursuant to the Javelin 1999 Stock Option Plan (the "Javelin Plan"). The Javelin
Plan authorized grants of stock options of Javelin. At the acquisition date, the
Javelin options where converted into the Company's  options at a conversion rate
of 0.51 to one. The options  granted under the Javelin Plan were fully vested at
the time of the Company's acquisition of Javelin pursuant to a change of control
clause  within the  Javelin  Plan.  A total of 511,167  shares of the  Company's
common  stock were  reserved  for  issuance.  Pursuant to the Javelin  Plan,  as
amended,  the Company may grant stock options and stock  purchase  rights to the
Company's employees, officers, directors and consultants. The maximum term of an
incentive stock option grant under the Javelin Plan is limited to ten years. The
exercise price of incentive stock options granted under the Javelin Plan must be
at least equal to the fair market  value of the  Company's  stock at the date of
grant, as defined. The Javelin Plan was effective on July 1, 1999 and expires on
June 30, 2009. At December 31, 2004, stock options to purchase 277,862 shares of
the Company's common stock were outstanding.

                                      F-37

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

1991 STOCK OPTION PLAN

        On March 30, 1999,  the Company's  Board of Directors  adopted the first
amendment to the Amended and Restated  1991  Incentive  and  Nonqualified  Stock
Option Plan (the "1991 Plan").  Under the 1991 Plan,  as amended,  the number of
options  reserved for issuance was increased from 3,375,000  shares to 5,625,000
shares of common stock.  This  amendment  was approved at the  Company's  Annual
Meeting of  Stockholders  held on June 7, 1999. On March 29, 2000,  the Board of
Directors  adopted the second  amendment to the 1991 Plan. Under this amendment,
the number of options  reserved for issuance was increased from 5,625,000 shares
to  6,625,000  shares  of common  stock.  This  amendment  was  approved  at the
Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders  held on June 5, 2000.  Options granted
generally became  exercisable over a three-year period and expired in ten years.
The 1991 Plan expired on June 23, 2001. All available options were granted under
the 1991 Plan, as amended,  and no further  grants will be made. At December 31,
2004,  stock options to purchase  2,140,585 shares of the Company's common stock
were outstanding.

        The  summary of the  activity  under  stock  option  plans for the years
ending December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, was as follows:

                                                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            2004                       2003                      2002
                                    ------------------------   ------------------------   ----------------------
                                                    WEIGHTED                   WEIGHTED                   WEIGHTED
                                                    AVERAGE                    AVERAGE                    AVERAGE
                                                    EXERCISE                   EXERCISE                   EXERCISE
                                     SHARES          PRICE      SHARES          PRICE      SHARES          PRICE
                                    ---------      ---------   ---------      ---------   ---------     ----------
Outstanding at beginning            5,627,917      $   10.65   5,810,982      $   10.67   4,452,819      $   13.84
   of the year
Granted                               648,200           6.46     610,501           5.27   1,906,850           4.96
Assumed in the acquisition               --          --             --          --          493,699           7.80
   of Javelin
Exercised                            (103,211)          3.83    (279,978)          2.99    (169,612)          2.81
Cancelled                            (589,626)         10.66    (513,588)          8.70    (872,774)         14.27
                                     ------                    ----------                  -------
Outstanding at end
   of the year                      5,583,280      $   10.28   5,627,917      $   10.65   5,810,982      $   10.67
                                    =========                  ==========                 ========

Exercisable at end of the year      4,248,713      $   11.48   4,192,077      $   11.64   2,932,929      $   11.69
                                    =========                  ==========                 ========

Weighted average fair value                        $    4.19                  $    4.11                  $    4.70
   of options granted

Weighted average fair value                                                                              $   12.28
   of options assumed in
   the acquision of Javelin

        The  following  table   summarizes   information   about  stock  options
outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2004:

                                      F-38

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

                                       OPTIONS OUTSTANDING                       OPTIONS EXERCISABLE
                           ------------------------------------------       ----------------------------
                                               Weighted
                                               Average       Weighted                          Weighted
                                               Remaining     Average                           Average
   Range of Exercise                             Life        Exercise                          Exercise
        Prices               Shares             (Years)       Price            Shares           Price
- ---------------------      ----------        ----------    ----------       -------------     ---------

$ 1.14 - $ 4.00            1,744,833               5.5      $  3.31           1,535,927        $   3.23
$ 4.01 - $ 8.00            1,301,071               8.2         5.99             382,710            5.94
$ 8.01 - $12.00              357,958               7.1         9.02             258,658            9.23
$12.01 - $16.00            1,310,925               6.3        13.04           1,210,925           13.06
$16.01 - $20.00               95,542               5.0        18.37              95,542           18.37
$20.01 - $24.00              369,151               5.6        22.45             361,151           22.45
$24.01 - $28.00               82,600               5.1        25.68              82,600           25.68
$28.01 - $32.00               63,500               5.9        30.06              63,500           30.06
$32.01 - $36.00              130,500               5.6        35.17             130,500           35.17
$36.01 - $44.00              127,200               5.5        38.11             127,200           38.11
                           ---------                                          ---------
                           5,583,280               6.4       $10.28           4,248,713        $  11.48
                           =========                                          ==========

The fair value of each option  grant is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes   option-pricing   model  with  the   following   weighted-average
assumptions:

                                                   YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                 --------------------------
                                                  2004     2003      2002
                                                 ------   ------   --------

Average risk-free interest rate                   3.4%     3.0%      3.8%
Average expected life in years                    5.7      6.0       6.5
Expected volatility                                76%      78%       79%
Expected dividend yield                             0%       0%        0%

16.     BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

        The Company has adopted  the  disclosure  requirements  of SFAS No. 131,
DISCLOSURES  ABOUT  SEGMENTS OF AN  ENTERPRISE  AND RELATED  INFORMATION,  which
establishes  standards for additional  disclosure  about operating  segments for
interim and annual financial  statements.  This standard requires  financial and
descriptive  information be disclosed for segments whose  operating  results are
reviewed  by  the  Company  for  decisions  on  resource  allocation.   It  also
establishes  standards  for related  disclosures  about  products and  services,
geographic areas and major customers.

        The Company operates as a financial  services  technology company in two
industry segments, Technology Services and Transaction Services.

        The Company's  Technology  Services  segment is comprised of four of its
subsidiaries,  which work together as technology providers, focusing on offering
trade-management   systems,  a  centralized  industry   order-routing   network,
order-routing software,  exchange-floor  automation systems, exchange and market
access technology and post-trade  processing  systems.  The Technology  Services
customers  consist  primarily of United States  securities  brokerage  firms and
international  derivatives  brokerage firms. The Company's  Technology  Services
segment primarily generates subscription, capital sale and service revenue.

                                      F-39

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

        The Company's  Transaction  Services  segment is comprised of six of its
subsidiaries.  Three are NASD registered  broker-dealers;  one is an introducing
broker for derivatives and was granted its broker-dealer  license in 2002 by the
National Futures Association ("NFA"); one was incorporated in the United Kingdom
on March 29, 2004 and registered as a  broker-dealer  with the FSA in connection
with the Company's  expansion into Europe and other international  markets;  and
EuroLink, which we acquired the remaining 60% we did not own effective March 29,
2004 and which  represented  the Company's  initial  transaction  efforts in the
European markets. Currently, the customers of the NASD registered broker-dealers
consist primarily of United States securities  brokerage firms and United States
buy-side  institutions,  including  banks,  mutual funds and other  professional
money managers.  The Company's  Transaction Services segment primarily generates
revenues from the application of commissions charged on executed trades.

        The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those
described in the summary of significant  accounting  policies  contained  herein
within Note 1. The  operating  segments  reported  below are the segments of the
Company for which  separate  financial  information  is available  and for which
operating  results are evaluated  regularly by senior management in deciding how
to allocate resources and in assessing performance.

        Summarized financial information by business segment for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was as follows:

                                      F-40

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

                                                           YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                    -------------------------------------
                                                      2004           2003          2002
                                                   ----------   --------------  --------
Revenue:                                                       (IN THOUSANDS)
  Technology Services                                $ 60,439      $ 54,156      $ 48,365
  Transaction Services                                 17,424        14,343         7,597
  Eliminations                                         (2,728)       (2,590)         (150)
                                                     --------      --------      --------
    Total revenue                                    $ 75,135      $ 65,909      $ 55,812
                                                     ========      ========      ========

Gross Profit:
  Technology Services                                $ 29,228      $ 27,841      $ 27,105
  Transaction Services                                  4,577         3,401           285
                                                     --------      --------      --------
    Total gross profit                               $ 33,805      $ 31,242      $ 27,390
                                                     ========      ========      ========

Depreciation and amortization:
  Technology Services                                $ 12,359      $ 10,691      $  9,900
  Transaction Services                                  1,776         1,813         1,586
  Corporate                                               265           490           175
                                                     --------      --------      --------
    Total depreciation and amortization              $ 14,400      $ 12,994      $ 11,661
                                                     ========      ========      ========

Capital expenditures for property and equipment:
  Technology Services                                $  6,295      $  4,959      $  3,671
  Transaction Services                                     17            25           586
  Corporate                                               349           306           309
                                                     --------      --------      --------
    Total capital expenditures                       $  6,661      $  5,290      $  4,566
                                                     ========      ========      ========

                                                            AS OF DECEMBER 31,
                                                     ----------------------------
                                                        2004             2003
                                                     ----------       ----------
Identifiable assets:                                       (IN THOUSANDS)
 Technology Services                                 $ 97,989         $ 94,449
 Transaction Services                                 154,289           13,059
 Corporate                                             28,813           49,276
                                                     --------         --------
  Total indentifiable assets                         $281,091         $156,784
                                                     ========         ========

        Identifiable assets by segment include assets directly identifiable with
those segments. Corporate assets consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents,
short-term  investments,  deferred tax assets and investments in  unconsolidated
affiliates associated with non-operating activities.

        Reconciling  information  between business  segments and the loss before
income taxes was as follows for the years ended  December 31,  2004,  2003,  and
2002:

                                      F-41

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

                                                YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                           2004           2003          2002
                                         ---------  ---------------  ----------
                                                    (IN THOUSANDS)
Gross profit for reportable segments     $ 33,805      $ 31,242      $ 27,390
Operating expenses                        (46,693)      (40,410)      (38,400)
Interest expense                             (794)         (157)         (294)
Investment income                             141           597           628
Other expense, net                            (98)         (758)         (621)
                                         --------      --------      --------
Loss before income taxes                 $(13,639)     $ (9,486)     $(11,297)
                                         ========      ========      ========

        Summarized  financial  information by geographic  location for the years
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was as follows:

                                           YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                   ----------------------------------------
                                     2004            2003           2002
                                   -------      --------------    ---------
Revenue:                                        (IN THOUSANDS)
 United States                     $65,339         $59,130        $52,020
 Foreign                             9,796           6,779          3,792
                                   -------         -------        -------
  Total revenue                    $75,135         $65,909        $55,812
                                   =======         =======        =======

                                       AS OF DECEMBER 31,
                                  ---------------------------
                                    2004             2003
                                  --------         -------
Long-lived assets:
 United States                    $90,399         $91,062
 Foreign                            3,364           2,197
                                  -------         -------
    Total long-lived assets       $93,763         $93,259
                                  =======         =======

        Revenues were attributed based upon the origin of the product shipped or
service provided.

17.     VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                                   BALANCE AT    CHARGED TO     DEDUCTIONS
                                  BEGINNING OF   COSTS AND      AND WRITE-       BALANCE
                                      YEAR        EXPENSES        OFFS         END OF YEAR
                                  ------------  -------------   ----------     -----------
ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS:               (IN THOUSANDS)
  Year ended December 31, 2004     $   1,839     $     763     $     495        $2,107
                                   =========     =========     =========        ======
  Year ended December 31, 2003     $   1,207     $   2,831     $   2,199        $1,839
                                   =========     =========     =========        ======
  Year ended December 31, 2002     $     511     $   1,146     $     450        $1,207
                                   =========     =========     =========        ======

18.     SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

        Information  about  the cash flow  activities  related  to  acquisitions
during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was as follows:

                                      F-42

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

                                                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                        -------------------------------------
                                                           2004        2003           2002
                                                        ---------  --------------   ---------
                                                                   (IN THOUSANDS)
Fair value of assets acquired, net of cash acquired     $ (4,493)     $(12,615)     $(76,219)
Fair value of liabilities assumed                            133           827        15,670
Promissory note converted to equity                         --           1,560          --
Fair value of capital contributed                          1,026         3,181          --
Fair value of notes issued                                   450         2,743          --
Common stock issued                                         --           2,997        49,154
Treasury stock acquired                                     --            (380)         --
Pre-acquisition investment basis                           3,014         1,590         4,600
Javelin working capital adjustment settlement              1,250          --            --
                                                        --------      --------      --------
Payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired         $  1,380      $    (97)     $ (6,795)
                                                        ========      ========      ========

        Information  about  other cash flow  activities  during the years  ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was as follows:

                                                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                         ---------------------------------
                                                           2004       2003          2002
                                                         -------- --------------  --------
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:                (IN THOUSANDS)
  Cash paid for interest                                 $   266     $   126      $   262
  (Refunds received) cash paid for income taxes, net         128      (2,186)         937
Supplemental schedule of noncash investing and
   financing information:
 Capital lease obligations incurred for the purchase       1,472        --          1,278
   of property and equipment
 Common stock issued for investments in                     --          --          1,121
   unconsolidated affiliates
 Common stock issued for notes                              --          --             70
 Common stock and treasury stock issued for                2,342        --           --
   promissory note payments
 Unrealized loss on available-for-sale securities           --           107          142

                                      F-43

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

19. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA - UNAUDITED

                                                              Three Months Ended
                    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             March 31,                    June 30,                 September 30,             December 31,
                    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        As                          As                           As
                    Previously       As         Previously       As         Previously         As             As
                     Reported     Restated       Reported     Restated       Reported       Restated       Reported
                    ----------    --------      ----------    --------      ----------      --------      ----------
2004

Revenue               $17,136      $ 17,136     $ 18,229      $ 18,229      $  19,490      $  19,490      $ 20,280
                      =======      ========     ========      ========      =========      =========      ========

Gross profit          $ 7,648      $  7,636     $  8,476      $  8,472      $   9,018      $   9,014      $  8,683
                      =======      ========     ========      ========      =========      =========      ========

Net loss              $(1,077)     $ (1,160)    $ (2,915)     $ (2,970)     $ (22,093)     $ (23,539)     $ (5,033)
                      =======      ========     ========      ========      =========      =========      ========

Basic and diluted
 loss per share       $ (0.03)     $  (0.04)    $  (0.09)     $  (0.09)     $   (0.68)     $   (0.73)     $  (0.16)
                      =======      ========     ========      ========      =========      =========      ========

                        As                          As                         As                             As
                    Previously       As         Previously       As        Previously          As         Previously       As
                     Reported     Restated       Reported     Restated      Reported        Restated       Reported     Restated
                    ----------    --------      ----------    --------     ----------       --------      -----------   --------
2003

Revenue               $17,283      $17,283      $ 15,696      $ 15,696      $ 16,395       $ 16,395       $ 16,535      $ 16,535
                      =======      =======      ========      ========      ========       ========       ========      ========

Gross profit          $ 9,026      $ 9,004      $  7,439      $  7,427      $  7,450       $  7,435       $  7,393      $  7,376
                      =======      =======      ========      ========      ========       ========       ========      ========

Net income (loss)     $    76      $  (156)     $ (1,057)     $ (1,182)     $ (1,057)      $ (1,151)      $ (2,335)     $ (2,426)
                      =======      =======      ========      ========      ========       ========       ========      ========

Basic and diluted
 loss per share       $  --        $ (0.01)     $  (0.03)     $  (0.04)     $  (0.03)      $  (0.04)      $  (0.07)     $  (0.08)
                      ======       =======      ========      ========      ========       ========       ========      ========

      See Note 2 for a discussion of the restatement.

      The sum of the loss per share for the four quarters of 2003 does not equal
total loss per share due to changes in the average number of shares  outstanding
during the respective periods.

      As described  in Note 6, the Company  recorded a  restructuring  charge of
$2.5 million  ($1.5  million  after tax, or $.05 per common share) in the second
quarter of 2004, in accordance with SFAS No. 146.

      As  described  in  Notes  1 and  11,  on a  restated  basis,  the  Company
established a valuation  allowance on its deferred tax asset, in accordance with
SFAS No. 109, of $22.4  million (or $0.69 per common  share)  during the quarter
ended September 30, 2004.

      As  described  in Note 1, in the  fourth  quarter  of  2003,  the  Company
initiated a program to accelerate the collection of past due accounts receivable
through,  among other  things,  the issuance of discounts to certain  customers.
Primarily  as a result of this  program,  the Company  recorded a charge of $2.2
million  ($1.4  million  after  tax,  or $0.04 per  common  share) in the fourth
quarter of 2003.

                                      F-44

<PAGE>

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CONTINUED

20.     SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

NASDAQ DELISTING PROCEEDING

      On April 5, 2005,  Nasdaq notified the Company that the Company was not in
compliance  with the  requirements  for  listing on The Nasdaq  National  Market
because the Company had not timely  filed its 2004 Form 10-K.  At a May 12, 2005
hearing with the Nasdaq Listing  Qualifications  Panel, the Company requested an
extension of time to meet Nasdaq's  listing  requirements.  In a decision  dated
June 14, 2005, the Nasdaq Listing  Qualifications  Panel determined to grant the
Company's request for continued  listing on the Nasdaq National Market,  subject
to the Company's filing its 2004 Form 10-K and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the three months ended March 31, 2005 by June 30, 2005.

      With this filing of the Company's  2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the
filing of its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31,
2005, the Company  believes that it is in compliance with the  requirements  for
listing on The Nasdaq  National  Market.  The Company  will  request that Nasdaq
dismiss the pending  delisting  action against it and permit its common stock to
resume trading on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol NYFX.

      If the Company's  common stock is delisted from Nasdaq,  stockholders  may
find it more  difficult to obtain timely and accurate  quotes and execute trades
in our common  stock.  In addition,  if our common stock is delisted from Nasdaq
and the  market  price of our common  stock is less than  $5.00 per  share,  our
common  stock  could be  considered  a penny  stock and  become  subject  to the
regulations applicable to penny stocks.

                                      F-45
</PRE>
</body>
</html>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.32
<SEQUENCE>2
<FILENAME>ex1032to10k_12312004.htm
<TEXT>
<html>
<head>
<title>sec document</title>
</head>
<body>
<PRE>


                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.32


                          REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

            THIS REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (the "AGREEMENT") is entered into
as of December 30, 2004, by and among NYFIX,  INC., a Delaware  corporation (the
"COMPANY"),  and WHITEBOX CONVERTIBLE ARBITRAGE PARTNERS,  L.P. a British Virgin
Islands limited partnership (the "INVESTOR").

                                R E C I T A L S :

            WHEREAS,   the  Company  has  entered  into  that  certain  Purchase
Agreement,  dated as of the date  hereof  (the  "PURCHASE  AGREEMENT")  with the
Investor  pursuant to which the Company has agreed to issue and sell to Investor
a convertible promissory note (the "NOTE");

            WHEREAS, the Company has agreed to grant certain registration rights
with respect to the shares of the Company's  Common Stock  issuable  pursuant to
the Note, including upon conversion of the Note or upon payment on the Note with
the Company's Common Stock;

            NOW, THEREFORE,  in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual
promises  and  covenants  contained  herein,  and for  other  good and  valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the
parties, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:

                                   ARTICLE 1
                                   DEFINITIONS

            As used  herein,  the  following  terms  shall  have  the  following
respective meanings:

            1.1  "COMMISSION"  shall  mean  the  U.S.  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission or any other successor  federal agency at the time  administering the
Securities Act.

            1.2 "COMMON STOCK" shall mean the Company's common stock, $0.001 par
value per share.

            1.3 "EXCHANGE ACT" shall mean the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended,  or any similar federal statute and the rules and regulations of the
Commission thereunder, all as the same shall be in effect at the time.

            1.4 "HOLDERS" shall mean and include the Investor and any transferee
thereof who holds Registrable Securities of record.

            1.5  "REGISTER,"   "REGISTERED"  and   "REGISTRATION"   refer  to  a
registration effected by preparing and filing with the Commission a registration
statement in compliance with the Securities Act, and the declaration or ordering
by the Commission of the effectiveness of such registration statement.

            1.6  "REGISTRABLE  SECURITIES"  means  any and all  shares of Common
Stock: (i) issued or issuable pursuant to the provisions of the Note,  including
upon  conversion  of the Note or upon  payment  on the Note,  or (ii)  issued or
issuable  with respect to the Common Stock  referred to in clause (i) above upon
any stock split,  stock dividend,  recapitalization,  reclassification,  merger,



<PAGE>



consolidation or other similar event. The term  "Registrable  Securities"  shall
exclude in all cases,  however,  such shares of Common Stock (i) following their
sale by a Holder to the public pursuant to a registered  offering or pursuant to
Rule  144  (or any  similar  provision  then in  force)  promulgated  under  the
Securities  Act,  (ii)  once  they are  otherwise  freely  transferable  without
restriction  pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or (iii) sold in a
private  transaction  in which  the  Holder's  registration  rights  under  this
Agreement are not assigned.

            1.7 "REGISTRATION  EXPENSES" shall mean all reasonable and customary
expenses  incurred by the  Company in  complying  with  Articles 2 and 3 hereof,
including,  without limitation, all registration,  qualification and Commission,
National  Association  of Securities  Dealers,  Inc.,  stock  exchange and other
filing fees, printing expenses,  duplication  expenses relating to copies of any
registration statement or prospectus delivered to any Holders, escrow fees, fees
and disbursements of legal counsel for the Company,  blue sky fees and expenses,
and the expense of any audits  incident to or required by any such  registration
(but excluding the compensation of employees and officers of the Company,  which
shall be paid in any event by the Company).

            1.8  "SECURITIES  ACT" shall  mean the  Securities  Act of 1933,  as
amended,  or any similar  federal  statute and the rules and  regulations of the
Commission thereunder, all as the same shall be in effect at the time.

            1.9 "SELLING EXPENSES" shall mean all underwriting fees,  discounts,
selling  commissions  and stock  transfer  taxes  applicable to the  Registrable
Securities  registered  by the Holders and the fees and  expenses of any special
counsel engaged by the Holders.

            1.10   "UNDERWRITER"   shall  mean  (whether  or  not  the  term  is
capitalized) a  broker-dealer  engaged by the Company to distribute  Registrable
Securities as principal or agent.

            1.11 "UNDERWRITING" or "UNDERWRITTEN" shall mean (whether or not the
term is  capitalized) a method of publicly  distributing  securities  through an
Underwriter.

                                   ARTICLE 2
                              REQUIRED REGISTRATION

            2.1 REQUIRED REGISTRATION. Not later than June 30, 2005 (the "FILING
DATE,"  unless a majority  in  interest  of the  Holders  request a delay of the
filing  for up to an  additional  60 days in  writing  and in  such  case,  upon
expiration of this requested delaying period), the Company will prepare and file
with the Commission a registration  statement  under the Securities Act covering
all of the Registrable  Securities and use its reasonable best efforts to obtain
the effectiveness of such registration as soon as practicable as would permit or
facilitate the original issuance or subsequent resale and distribution of all of
such  Registrable  Securities.  If,  however,  the Company  shall furnish to the
Holders a certificate  signed by the President of the Company within thirty (30)
days of the Filing Date stating that, in the good faith judgment of the Board of
Directors of the Company,  a material  acquisition or disposition by the Company
is being  negotiated  or has been publicly  announced or that such  registration
statement  would have a material  detrimental  effect on the  Company,  then the
Company  shall have the right to defer such filing for a period of not more than

                                      -2-

<PAGE>



sixty (60) days after the Filing Date. Such registration statement shall contain
(unless the Holders otherwise  direct)  substantially the "Plan of Distribution"
attached  hereto as ANNEX A. The Company's  failure to obtain  effectiveness  of
this registration statement by September 30, 2005 (the "Registration  Deadline")
(subject to an  extension of such  Registration  Deadline to  correspond  to the
extension  of the Filing  Date,  if any,  granted by the  Holders  above,  or to
correspond  to the right of the Company to defer the Filing  Date in  accordance
with this Section 2.1 and subject to delays incurred by any Holder's  failure to
comply with the  provisions  of Section 5(b) below) will commence the running of
the first "Failure Term" as defined in Section 6 of the Note. Each Holder agrees
that if the Company  determines that there are material  developments  which the
Company  determines  require  the filing of a  post-effective  amendment  to the
registration  statement,  then each Holder  agrees to refrain  from  selling any
Registrable Securities until the post-effective amendment is declared effective.
The  Company  agrees  to file  and  attempt  to  have  declared  effective  such
post-effective amendment as soon as possible.

            2.2 UNDERWRITING.

            (a) The resale distribution of the Registrable Securities covered by
the registration statement referred to in Section 2.1 above shall be effected by
means of the method of  distribution  selected by the Holders holding a majority
of the Registrable Securities covered by such registration.  The Holders holding
a majority of the Registrable Securities may also change the resale distribution
method from time to time (subject to amendment of the registration  statement at
the  expense of the  Holders as required  to  describe  such  changes).  If such
distribution is effected by means of an underwriting, the right of any Holder to
registration  pursuant to this Article 2 shall be conditioned upon such Holder's
participation   in  such   underwriting  and  the  inclusion  of  such  Holder's
Registrable Securities in the underwriting to the extent provided herein.

            (b) If such  distribution  is effected by means of an  underwriting,
the Company  (together with all Holders proposing to distribute their securities
through  such  underwriting)  shall  enter  into an  underwriting  agreement  in
customary  form with a managing  underwriter of nationally  recognized  standing
selected  for such  underwriting  by the Company  and  approved by a majority in
interest of the Holders, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.

            (c) If any Holder disapproves of the terms of the underwriting, such
person may elect to withdraw  therefrom by written  notice to the  Company,  the
managing  underwriter and the other Holders.  The Registrable  Securities and/or
other securities so withdrawn shall also be withdrawn from registration.

            2.3 INCLUSION OF SHARES BY THE COMPANY.  If the resale  distribution
of Registrable  Securities is being effected by means of an underwriting  and if
the managing underwriter will not limit the number of Registrable  Securities to
be underwritten,  the Company may include  securities for its own account or for
the account of others in such registration if the managing underwriter so agrees
and shall include securities for the account of others ("Other Holders") in such
registration as required by the Company's contractual obligations existing as of
the Closing Date to holders of the Company's  securities.  The inclusion of such
shares  shall be on the same  terms as the  registration  of shares  held by the
Holders.  If the managing  underwriter  decides  that the number of  Registrable

                                      -3-

<PAGE>



Securities  proposed  to be sold in such  registration  exceeds  the  number  of
securities  that can be sold in such offering  without an adverse effect on such
offering,  the  Company  will  include in such  registration  only the number of
Registrable  Securities  that, in the opinion of the  underwriter,  can be sold,
selected pro rata among the Holders and the Other Holders based on the number of
shares they had  originally  proposed to register;  provided,  however,  that no
securities  for the Company or any other holders  (other than the Other Holders)
shall be included in such registration unless all of the Registrable  Securities
of the Holders are included.

                                   ARTICLE 3
                              COMPANY REGISTRATION

            3.1 NOTICE OF REGISTRATION  TO HOLDERS.  If at any time or from time
to time  commencing  after the date  hereof,  the  Company  shall  determine  to
register any of its  securities,  either for its own account or the account of a
security  holder or holders,  other than (i) a registration  relating  solely to
employee benefit plans on Form S-8 (or any successor form),  (ii) a registration
relating  solely  to a  Commission  Rule  145  transaction  on Form  S-4 (or any
successor  form)  or  (iii) a  registration  on any form  that  does not  permit
secondary sales, the Company will:

            (a) promptly give to each Holder written notice thereof and

            (b)  include in such  registration  (and any  related  qualification
under  blue sky  laws or other  compliance),  and in any  underwriting  involved
therein,  all the  Registrable  Securities  specified  in a written  request  or
requests,  made  within 15 days after  receipt of such  written  notice from the
Company described in Section 3.1(a),  by any Holder or Holders,  but only to the
extent that the original  issuance or resale  distribution  of such  Registrable
Securities is not already covered by an effective  registration  statement under
Article 2 above.

            3.2 UNDERWRITING.

            (a) If the  registration of which the Company gives notice is for an
offering involving an underwriting, the Company shall so advise the Holders as a
part of the written notice given pursuant to Section 3.1(a).  In such event, the
right  of any  Holder  to  registration  pursuant  to this  Article  3 shall  be
conditioned  upon  such  Holder's  participation  in such  underwriting  and the
inclusion of such Holder's  Registrable  Securities in the  underwriting  to the
extent provided  herein.  All Holders  proposing to distribute  their securities
through  such  underwriting  shall  (together  with the  Company)  enter into an
underwriting  agreement in customary form with the managing underwriter selected
for such underwriting by the Company.

            (b)  Notwithstanding  any other  provision of this Article 3, if the
managing  underwriter  determines that marketing factors require a limitation of
the number of shares to be underwritten, the underwriter may exclude some or all
Registrable  Securities from such  registration  and  underwriting.  The Company
shall so advise all Holders of Registrable Securities,  and the number of shares
of Common  Stock to be  included  in such  registration  shall be  allocated  as
follows:  first,  for the  account of the  Company,  all shares of Common  Stock
proposed to be sold by the Company;  and second,  for the account of the Holders
and any other  shareholders of the Company  participating in such  registration,
the  number  of  shares  of  Common  Stock  requested  to  be  included  in  the

                                      -4-

<PAGE>



registration by the Holders and such other shareholders in proportion, as nearly
as  practicable,  to the respective  amounts of Registrable  Securities that are
proposed to be offered and sold by the  Holders and such other  shareholders  of
Common Stock at the time of filing the  registration  statement.  No Registrable
Securities  or other shares of Common Stock  excluded from the  underwriting  in
this  Article 3 by reason of the  underwriters'  marketing  limitation  shall be
included in such registration.

            (c) The Company  shall so advise all  Holders and the other  holders
distributing  their securities through such underwriting of any such limitation,
and the number of shares of Registrable  Securities  held by Holders that may be
included in the registration. If any Holder disapproves of the terms of any such
underwriting,  such Holder may elect to withdraw  therefrom by written notice to
the Company and the managing  underwriter.  Any securities excluded or withdrawn
from such underwriting shall be withdrawn from such registration, but the Holder
shall continue to be bound by the terms hereof.

            (d) The Company  shall have the right to  terminate  or withdraw any
registration  initiated by it under this Article 3 prior to the effectiveness of
such  registration,  whether or not a Holder has elected to include  Registrable
Securities in such registration.

                                   ARTICLE 4
                            EXPENSES OF REGISTRATION

            All   Registration   Expenses   incurred  in  connection   with  any
registration,  qualification  or compliance  pursuant to Articles 2 and 3 hereof
and the reasonable fees of one counsel for the Holders of Registrable Securities
in the case of  registration  pursuant to Article 2 hereof (up to $20,000) shall
be borne by the Company. All Selling Expenses relating to Registrable Securities
registered  by the  Holders  shall be borne by the  Holders of such  Registrable
Securities pro rata on the basis of the number of shares so registered.

                                   ARTICLE 5
                             REGISTRATION PROCEDURES

            (a) In  the  case  of  each  registration  effected  by the  Company
pursuant to this Agreement, the Company will keep each Holder advised in writing
as to the initiation of each registration and as to the completion thereof.  The
Company  agrees to use its  reasonable  best  efforts  to  effect or cause  such
registration to permit the sale of the Registrable Securities covered thereby by
the  Holders  thereof  in  accordance  with the  intended  method or  methods of
distribution  thereof  described in such registration  statement.  In connection
with any registration of any Registrable Securities, the Company shall:

                  (i)  prepare  and file  with  the  Commission  a  registration
            statement  with respect to such  Registrable  Securities and use its
            reasonable best efforts to cause such  registration  statement filed
            to become effective;

                  (ii) prepare and file with the Commission  such amendments and
            supplements  to  such  registration  statement  and  the  prospectus
            included  therein as may be  necessary  to effect and  maintain  the
            effectiveness of such  registration  statement as may be required by
            the  applicable  rules and  regulations  of the  Commission  and the
            instructions  applicable to the form of such registration  statement

                                      -5-

<PAGE>



            (provided,  however,  that  the  Company  shall  not be  obliged  to
            maintain the  effectiveness  of such  registration  statement longer
            than  through  the  earlier  of (A) the date on which the Holder may
            sell all Registrable  Securities  then held by the Holder,  or which
            may become  issuable upon  conversion of the Note or upon payment on
            the Note,  without  restriction  by the volume  limitations  of Rule
            144(e) of the  Securities  Act or (B) such  time as all  Registrable
            Securities  held  by such  Holder,  or  which  may  become  issuable
            pursuant to the provisions of the Note, have been sold pursuant to a
            registration   statement),   and  furnish  to  the  holders  of  the
            Registrable Securities covered thereby copies of any such supplement
            or amendment prior to its use and/or filing with the Commission;

                  (iii) promptly notify the Holders of Registrable Securities to
            be  included in a  registration  statement  hereunder,  the sales or
            placement  agent, if any,  therefor and the managing  underwriter of
            the securities  being sold, and confirm such advice in writing,  (A)
            when such registration  statement or the prospectus included therein
            or  any  prospectus   amendment  or  supplement  or   post-effective
            amendment  has been filed,  and,  with respect to such  registration
            statement or any post-effective  amendment, when the same has become
            effective,  (B) of the issuance by the  Commission of any stop order
            suspending the effectiveness of such  registration  statement or the
            initiation of any proceedings  for that purpose,  (C) of the receipt
            by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of
            the  qualification  of the  Registrable  Securities  for sale in any
            jurisdiction  or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for
            such purpose or (D) if, to the Company's knowledge,  it shall be the
            case,  at any time when a  prospectus  is required  to be  delivered
            under the  Securities  Act,  that  such  registration  statement  or
            prospectus,  or any document incorporated by reference in any of the
            foregoing,  contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits
            to  state  any  material  fact  required  to be  stated  therein  or
            necessary to make the statements  therein not misleading in light of
            the circumstances then existing;

                  (iv) use its reasonable  best efforts to obtain the withdrawal
            of any  order  suspending  the  effectiveness  of such  registration
            statement or any  post-effective  amendment  thereto or of any order
            suspending  or  preventing  the  use of any  related  prospectus  or
            suspending the qualification of any Registrable  Securities included
            in such  registration  statement for sale in any jurisdiction at the
            earliest practicable date;

                  (v) furnish to each  Holder of  Registrable  Securities  to be
            included in such registration statement hereunder, each placement or
            sales agent, if any, therefor and each underwriter, if any, thereof,
            without charge, a conformed copy of such registration  statement and
            any amendment  and  supplement  thereto (in each case  including all
            exhibits and documents incorporated by reference) and such number of
            copies of the  prospectus  included in such  registration  statement
            (including each preliminary  prospectus and any summary prospectus),
            and any amendment or supplement thereto,  as such Holder,  agent, if
            any, and  underwriter,  if any, may  reasonably  request in order to
            facilitate the  disposition of the Registrable  Securities  owned by
            such Holder sold by such agent or underwritten  by such  underwriter
            and to permit  such  Holder,  agent and  underwriter  to satisfy the
            prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act;

                                      -6-

<PAGE>



                  (vi)  use its  reasonable  best  efforts  to (A)  register  or
            qualify  the   Registrable   Securities   to  be  included  in  such
            registration  statement under such other securities laws or blue sky
            laws of such states of the United States or the District of Columbia
            to be  designated  by the Holders of a majority of such  Registrable
            Securities  participating in such registration and each placement or
            sales agent, if any, therefor and underwriter,  if any, thereof,  as
            any Holder and each  underwriter,  if any, of the  securities  being
            sold shall reasonably request (provided,  that the Company shall not
            be required to register  or qualify the  Registrable  Securities  in
            more than 15 such  jurisdictions  unless the  expenses  thereof  are
            borne  by the  Holders  requesting  such  efforts),  (B)  keep  such
            registrations or  qualifications in effect and comply with such laws
            at all times during the period  described in Section 5(a)(ii) above,
            and (C) take any and all such actions as may be reasonably necessary
            to enable such Holder,  agent, if any, and underwriter to consummate
            the   disposition  in  such   jurisdictions   of  such   Registrable
            Securities;   provided,  however,  that  in  order  to  fulfill  the
            foregoing obligations under this Section 5(a)(vi), the Company shall
            not  (unless  otherwise  required to do so in any  jurisdiction)  be
            required  to (1)  qualify  generally  to do  business  as a  foreign
            company or a broker-dealer, (2) execute a general consent to service
            of process or (3) subject itself to taxation; and

                  (vii)  furnish,  at the  request of a majority  of the Holders
            participating in the registration, on the date that such Registrable
            Securities  are  delivered  to the  underwriters  for sale,  if such
            securities  are  being  sold  through  underwriters,   or,  if  such
            securities are not being sold through underwriters, on the date that
            the registration  statement with respect to such securities  becomes
            effective,  (i) an  opinion,  dated as of such date,  of the counsel
            representing the Company for the purposes of such  registration,  in
            form and substance as is  customarily  given to  underwriters  in an
            underwritten  public  offering  and  reasonably  satisfactory  to  a
            majority  in  interest  of  the  Holders  requesting   registration,
            addressed to the underwriters, if any, and to the Holders requesting
            registration of Registrable Securities and (ii) a letter dated as of
            such date, from the independent  certified public accountants of the
            Company,   in  form  and  substance  as  is  customarily   given  by
            independent  certified  public  accountants  to  underwriters  in an
            underwritten  public  offering  and  reasonably  satisfactory  to  a
            majority  in  interest  of  the  Holders  requesting   registration,
            addressed  to  the  underwriters,   if  any,  and  if  permitted  by
            applicable   accounting   standards,   to  the  Holders   requesting
            registration of Registrable Securities.

            (b) The Company may require each Holder of Registrable Securities as
to which any registration is being effected to furnish in writing to the Company
such information  regarding such Holder and such Holder's method of distribution
of such  Registrable  Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably
request.  Each  such  Holder  agrees  to  notify  the  Company  as  promptly  as
practicable of any inaccuracy or change in information  previously  furnished by
such Holder to the Company or of the occurrence of any event in either case as a
result of which any prospectus  relating to such registration  contains or would
contain an untrue  statement  of a material  fact  regarding  such Holder or the
distribution of such Registrable  Securities or omits to state any material fact
regarding  such  Holder  or the  distribution  of  such  Registrable  Securities
required to be stated  therein or necessary to make the  statements  therein not
misleading in light of the circumstances then existing,  and promptly to furnish
to the Company  any  additional  information  required to correct and update any

                                      -7-

<PAGE>



previously  furnished  information or required so that such prospectus shall not
contain,  with respect to such Holder or the  distribution  of such  Registrable
Securities,  an untrue  statement or a material fact or omit to state a material
fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the  statements  therein
not misleading in light of the circumstances then existing.

            (c) Each of the  Holders  will  comply  with the  provisions  of the
Securities Act with respect to disposition of the  Registrable  Securities to be
included in any registration statement filed by the Company.

                                   ARTICLE 6
                                 INDEMNIFICATION

            6.1 The Company will  indemnify  each Holder,  each of its officers,
directors  and  partners,  and  such  Holder's  legal  counsel  and  independent
accountants,  if any, and each person  controlling  any such persons  within the
meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act, with respect to which registration,
qualification  or compliance has been effected  pursuant to this Agreement,  and
each  underwriter,  if any, and each person who controls any underwriter  within
the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act,  against all expenses,  claims,
losses,  damages and liabilities (or actions in respect thereof),  including any
of the  foregoing  incurred  in  settlement  of  any  litigation,  commenced  or
threatened,  arising out of or based on any untrue  statement (or alleged untrue
statement)  of a  material  fact  contained  in any  registration  statement  or
prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereof, or based on any omission (or
alleged omission) to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein
or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading,  or any violation by
the Company of any rule or regulation  promulgated  under the  Securities Act or
any state  securities  laws  applicable to the Company and relating to action or
inaction by the Company in connection with any such registration,  qualification
or  compliance,  and will  reimburse  each such  Holder,  each of its  officers,
directors  and  partners  and  such  Holder's  legal  counsel  and   independent
accountants, and each person controlling any such persons, each such underwriter
and each person who controls any such  underwriter,  for any legal and any other
expenses  reasonably  incurred in connection  with  investigating,  preparing or
defending any such claim, loss, damage, liability or action; provided,  however,
that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such
claim,  loss,  damage,  liability  or  expense  arises out of or is based on any
untrue  statement or omission or alleged  untrue  statement or omission  made in
reliance  upon and in  conformity  with  written  information  furnished  to the
Company  by  such  Holder,   officers,   directors,   partners,  legal  counsel,
accountants,  underwriter or controlling persons, and expressly intended for use
in such  registration  statement or  prospectus,  or any amendment or supplement
thereof.

            6.2 Each Holder will, if Registrable  Securities held by such Holder
are included in the securities as to which such  registration,  qualification or
compliance is being effected,  indemnify the Company,  each of its directors and
officers and its legal counsel and independent accountants, each underwriter, if
any, of the Company's securities covered by such a registration statement,  each
person who  controls  the  Company  or such  underwriter  within the  meaning of
Section  15 of the  Securities  Act,  and each other  such  Holder,  each of its
officers,  directors,  partners, legal counsel and independent  accountants,  if
any, and each person controlling such Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of
the  Securities  Act,  against  all  expenses,   claims,   losses,  damages  and
liabilities  (or actions in respect  thereof),  including  any of the  foregoing

                                      -8-

<PAGE>



incurred in settlement of any litigation,  commenced or threatened,  arising out
of or based on any untrue statement (or alleged untrue  statement) of a material
fact  contained  in  any  such  registration  statement  or  prospectus,  or any
amendment or supplement  thereto, or based on any omission (or alleged omission)
to state therein a material  fact required to be stated  therein or necessary to
make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse the Company, such
Holders,  such  directors,   officers,   partners,  legal  counsel,  independent
accountants, underwriters or control persons for any legal or any other expenses
reasonably incurred in connection with investigating, preparing or defending any
such claim, loss,  damage,  liability or action, in each case to the extent, but
only to the extent,  that such untrue statement (or alleged untrue statement) or
omission  (or  alleged  omission)  is  made in such  registration  statement  or
prospectus or amendment or  supplement  in reliance upon and in conformity  with
written  information  furnished  to the  Company by such  Holder  and  expressly
intended for use in such registration statement or prospectus,  or any amendment
or supplement thereof;  provided,  however,  that the obligations of each Holder
hereunder  shall be limited to an amount equal to the proceeds to such Holder of
Registrable Securities sold as contemplated herein.

            6.3 Each party entitled to indemnification under this Section 6 (the
"INDEMNIFIED  PARTY")  shall  give  notice  to the  party  required  to  provide
indemnification (the "INDEMNIFYING PARTY") promptly after such Indemnified Party
has actual knowledge of any claim as to which indemnity may be sought, and shall
permit the  Indemnifying  Party to assume  the  defense of any such claim or any
litigation  resulting  therefrom,  provided  that  counsel for the  Indemnifying
Party,  who shall  conduct  the  defense of such claim or  litigation,  shall be
approved by the  Indemnified  Party (whose  approval shall not  unreasonably  be
withheld). The Indemnified Party may participate in such defense at such party's
expense;  provided,  however, that the Indemnifying Party shall bear the expense
of such defense of the Indemnified  Party if  representation  of both parties by
the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential  conflicts of
interest. The failure of any Indemnified Party to give notice as provided herein
shall  not  relieve  the  Indemnifying  Party  of  its  obligations  under  this
Agreement, unless such failure is prejudicial to the ability of the Indemnifying
Party to defend the action.  No  Indemnifying  Party, in the defense of any such
claim or litigation,  shall,  except with the consent of each Indemnified Party,
consent to entry of any  judgment  or enter into any  settlement  which does not
include as an unconditional term thereof the giving by the claimant or plaintiff
to such  Indemnified  Party of a release  from all  liability in respect of such
claim or litigation.

            6.4 If the  indemnification  provided  for in Section  6.1 or 6.2 is
unavailable or  insufficient  to hold harmless an Indemnified  Party,  then each
Indemnifying  Party  shall  contribute  to the  amount  paid or  payable by such
Indemnified  Party as a result  of the  expenses,  claims,  losses,  damages  or
liabilities  (or  actions or  proceedings  in respect  thereof)  referred  to in
Section 6.1 or 6.2, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative
fault of the Company on the one hand and the sellers of  Registrable  Securities
on the other hand in connection  with  statements or omissions which resulted in
such  losses,  claims,  damages or  liabilities  (or actions or  proceedings  in
respect  thereof)  or  expenses,   as  well  as  any  other  relevant  equitable
considerations.  The relative  fault shall be  determined by reference to, among
other things,  whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact
or the  omission  or  alleged  omission  to state a  material  fact  relates  to
information supplied by the Company or the sellers of Registrable Securities and
the parties' relative intent,  knowledge,  access to information and opportunity
to correct or prevent such untrue  statement  or  omission.  The Company and the

                                      -9-

<PAGE>



Holders agree that it would not be just and equitable if contributions  pursuant
to this Section 6.4 were to be  determined by pro rata  allocation  (even if all
sellers of Registrable  Securities  were treated as one entity for such purpose)
or by any  other  method  of  allocation  which  does  not take  account  of the
equitable  considerations referred to in the first sentence of this Section 6.4.
The amount paid by an  Indemnified  Party as a result of the  expenses,  claims,
losses,  damages or liabilities  (or actions or proceedings in respect  thereof)
referred to in the first sentence of this Section 6.4 shall be deemed to include
any legal or other expenses  reasonably  incurred by such  Indemnified  Party in
connection with investigating or defending any claim, action or proceeding which
is  the  subject  of  this   Section  6.4.  No  person   guilty  of   fraudulent
misrepresentation  (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the  Securities  Act)
shall be  entitled  to  contribution  from any person who was not guilty of such
fraudulent   misrepresentation.   The  obligations  of  sellers  of  Registrable
Securities  to  contribute  pursuant  to this  Section  6.4 shall be  several in
proportion  to the  respective  amount of  Registrable  Securities  sold by them
pursuant to a registration statement.

                                   ARTICLE 7
                               RULE 144 REPORTING

            With a view to making  available  the benefits of certain  rules and
regulations  of the  Commission  which  may at  any  time  permit  the  sale  of
securities of the Company to the public without registration, the Company agrees
to use its reasonable best efforts to:

            7.1 Make and keep public information regarding the Company available
as those terms are understood and defined in Rule 144 under the Securities  Act,
at all times after the date hereof; and

            7.2 File with the  Commission  in a timely  manner all  reports  and
other  documents  required  of the  Company  under  the  Securities  Act and the
Exchange Act.

                                   ARTICLE 8
                         TRANSFER OF REGISTRATION RIGHTS

            The rights to cause the Company to register  Registrable  Securities
under this  Agreement  may be  assigned by a Holder to  Whitebox  Advisors,  LLC
("WHITEBOX")  or to a transferee or assignee of Registrable  Securities that (i)
is a  subsidiary,  parent or  affiliated  entity,  general  partner  or  limited
partner, member or retired partner or member of a Holder or of Whitebox, (ii) is
an  affiliated  fund,  a  follow-on  fund or  predecessor  fund of a Holder or a
related  fund or of Whitebox or (iii) is a Holder's  family  member or trust for
the benefit of an individual Holder; provided, however, (A) the transferor shall
furnish to the Company written notice of the name and address of such transferee
or assignee and the securities  with respect to which such  registration  rights
are being assigned prior to such transfer and (B) such transferee shall agree in
writing to be subject to all restrictions  set forth in this Agreement.  In each
case,  such  rights  may  only  be  transferred  together  with  the  underlying
Registrable  Securities  in a  transfer  permitted  by the  Securities  Act  and
applicable  state  securities  laws.  Any such  transferee or assignee  shall be
deemed a Holder hereunder.

                                      -10-

<PAGE>



                                   ARTICLE 9
         LIMITATIONS ON REGISTRATION RIGHTS GRANTED TO OTHER SECURITIES

            From and after the date of this  Agreement,  the Company  shall not,
without  the  prior  written  consent  of  the  holders  of a  majority  of  the
Registrable  Securities  then  outstanding,  enter into any  agreement  with any
holder or prospective  holder of any securities of the Company providing for the
grant to such holder of registration rights superior to those granted herein.

                                   ARTICLE 10
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

            10.1  GOVERNING  LAW. The laws of the state of New York shall govern
the  interpretation,  validity and  performance of the terms of this  agreement,
regardless  of the law that might be applied  under  principles  of conflicts of
law. The Company consents to the personal  jurisdiction and forum convenience of
the state and federal courts located in Hennepin County, Minnesota, with respect
to any action by a Holder to  enforce  the  provisions  of this  Agreement.  The
Holder consents to the personal  jurisdiction and forum convenience of the state
and federal  courts  located in the Borough of Manhattan,  New York County,  New
York,  with  respect to any action by the Company to enforce the  provisions  of
this Agreement.

            10.2 SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.  Except as otherwise expressly provided
herein,  the  provisions  hereof  shall  inure to the benefit of, and be binding
upon,  the  successors and assigns of each of the parties hereto and shall inure
to the benefit of and be binding upon each Holder of any Registrable Securities.

            10.3  ENTIRE  AGREEMENT.  This  Agreement  constitutes  the full and
entire  understanding  and  agreement  between  the  parties  with regard to the
subject matter hereof.

            10.4  TERMINATION.  The  obligations  of  the  Company  to  register
Registrable  Securities under this Agreement for a Holder shall terminate on the
date hereafter when (i) such Holder  (together  with its  affiliates,  partners,
members and former  partners  and members)  holds less than 1% of the  Company's
outstanding Common Stock and (ii) all Registrable Securities held by or issuable
to such Holder (and its  affiliates,  partners,  members and former partners and
members)  pursuant to the  provisions  of the Note may be sold under Rule 144(k)
during any 90 day period.

            10.5   NOTICES.   All  notices,   requests,   consents,   and  other
communications  hereunder shall be made in writing and shall be deemed given (i)
when made if made by hand delivery,  (ii) one business day after being deposited
with an overnight courier if made by courier guaranteeing  overnight delivery or
(iii) on the date  indicated  on the notice of  receipt  if made by  first-class
mail, return receipt requested, addressed as follows:

            (a) if to the Company, at

                NYFIX, Inc.
                333 Ludlow Street
                Stamford, CT 06902
                Attention:  General Counsel

                                       11

<PAGE>



                with a copy to:

                Olshan Grundman Frome Rosenzweig &amp; Wolosky LLP
                65 East 55th Street
                New York, New York  10022
                Attention:  Robert L. Frome, Esq.

            (b) if to the Purchaser, in care of:

                Whitebox Advisors, LLC
                3033 Excelsior Boulevard, Suite 300
                Minneapolis, Minnesota  55416
                Attention:  Jonathan Wood, Chief Financial Officer
                with a copy to:

                Messerli &amp; Kramer P.A.
                150 South Fifth Street, Suite 1800
                Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402
                Attention: Jeffrey C. Robbins, Esq.

            (c) if to a Holder,  to the address  reflected on the records of the
Company,  or such other  address or  addresses  as shall have been  furnished in
writing by such party to the Company and to the other parties to this Agreement.

            10.6 SEVERABILITY. The invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of
one or more of the  provisions of this Agreement in any  jurisdiction  shall not
affect  the  validity,  legality  or  enforceability  of the  remainder  of this
Agreement in such  jurisdiction or the validity,  legality or  enforceability of
this Agreement,  including any such  provision,  in any other  jurisdiction,  it
being intended that all rights and obligations of the parties hereunder shall be
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.

            10.7  TITLES  AND   SUBTITLES.   The  titles  of  the  sections  and
subsections of this Agreement are for  convenience of reference only and are not
to be considered in construing this Agreement.

            10.8  COUNTERPARTS.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of
counterparts,  each of which  shall be an  original,  but all of which  together
constitute one instrument.

            10.9  AMENDMENT  AND  MODIFICATION.  This  Agreement may be amended,
modified or supplemented in any respect only by written agreement by the Company
and  Holders  representing  at least a majority of the  Registrable  Securities,
voting  together  as a single  class;  provided,  that no such  amendment  shall
unfairly discriminate against a particular Holder relative to the other Holders.
Any action taken by the Holders,  as provided in this Section  10.9,  shall bind
all Holders.

                                      -12-

<PAGE>



            IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  undersigned  have hereunto  affixed their
signatures.

NYFIX, INC.                                   WHITEBOX CONVERTIBLE ARBITRAGE
                                                PARTNERS, L.P.



By /s/ Peter K. Hansen                        By /s/ Andrew Redleaf
   -------------------------                     -------------------------------
Its Chief Executive Officer                   Its Managing Director


<PAGE>



                                     ANNEX A
                              PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION

            We are  registering  the shares offered by this prospectus on behalf
of the  selling  shareholders.  The selling  shareholders,  which as used herein
includes donees, pledgees,  transferees or other successors-in-interest  selling
shares of common stock or interests in shares of common stock received after the
date  of  this  prospectus  from  a  selling  shareholder  as  a  gift,  pledge,
partnership  distribution  or other  transfer,  may,  from  time to time,  sell,
transfer or  otherwise  dispose of any or all of their shares of common stock or
interests  in shares of common  stock on any stock  exchange,  market or trading
facility  on which the  shares  are  traded or in  private  transactions.  These
dispositions may be at fixed prices,  at prevailing market prices at the time of
sale,  at prices  related to the  prevailing  market  price,  at varying  prices
determined at the time of sale, or at negotiated prices.

            The selling  shareholders  may use any one or more of the  following
methods when disposing of shares or interests therein:

               o   ordinary brokerage transactions and transactions in which the
                   broker-dealer solicits purchasers;

               o   block trades in which the broker-dealer  will attempt to sell
                   the shares as agent, but may position and resell a portion of
                   the block as principal to facilitate the transaction;

               o   purchases by a  broker-dealer  as principal and resale by the
                   broker-dealer for its account;

               o   an exchange  distribution in accordance with the rules of the
                   applicable exchange;

               o   privately negotiated transactions;

               o   short sales;

               o   through the writing or settlement of options or other hedging
                   transactions,   whether   through  an  options   exchange  or
                   otherwise;

               o   broker-dealers  may agree with the  selling  shareholders  to
                   sell a specified  number of such shares at a stipulated price
                   per share;

               o   a combination of any such methods of sale; and

               o   any other method permitted pursuant to applicable law.

            The selling  shareholders  may, from time to time, pledge or grant a
security  interest  in some or all of the shares of common  stock  owned by them
and,  if they  default in the  performance  of their  secured  obligations,  the
pledgees or secured parties may offer and sell the shares of common stock,  from
time to time,  under this  prospectus,  or under an amendment to this prospectus
under  Rule  424(b)(3)  or other  applicable  provision  of the  Securities  Act
amending the list of selling shareholders to include the pledgee,  transferee or
other successors in interest as selling shareholders under this prospectus.  The



<PAGE>



selling  shareholders  also may  transfer  the  shares of common  stock in other
circumstances,  in which case the  transferees,  pledgees or other successors in
interest will be the selling beneficial owners for purposes of this prospectus.

            In  connection  with  the  sale of our  common  stock  or  interests
therein,  the selling  shareholders  may enter into  hedging  transactions  with
broker-dealers  or other  financial  institutions,  which may in turn  engage in
short  sales of the common  stock in the course of hedging  the  positions  they
assume. The selling  shareholders may also sell shares of our common stock short
and deliver  these  securities  to close out their short  positions,  or loan or
pledge  the  common  stock  to  broker-dealers  that  in  turn  may  sell  these
securities.  The  selling  shareholders  may also  enter  into  option  or other
transactions with broker-dealers or other financial institutions or the creation
of one or  more  derivative  securities  which  require  the  delivery  to  such
broker-dealer  or  other  financial   institution  of  shares  offered  by  this
prospectus,  which shares such broker-dealer or other financial  institution may
resell pursuant to this  prospectus (as  supplemented or amended to reflect such
transaction).

            The aggregate proceeds to the selling  shareholders from the sale of
the common stock offered by them will be the purchase  price of the common stock
less discounts or commissions, if any. Each of the selling shareholders reserves
the right to accept  and,  together  with  their  agents  from time to time,  to
reject,  in whole or in part,  any proposed  purchase of common stock to be made
directly or through  agents.  We will not receive any of the proceeds  from this
offering.

            The  selling  shareholders  also may  resell all or a portion of the
shares  in open  market  transactions  in  reliance  upon  Rule  144  under  the
Securities Act of 1933,  provided that they meet the criteria and conform to the
requirements of that rule.

            The  selling   shareholders  and  any  broker-dealers  that  act  in
connection  with the sale of  securities  might be deemed  to be  "underwriters"
within the meaning of Section 2(11) of the Securities  Act, and any  commissions
received by such  broker-dealers  and any profit on the resale of the securities
sold by them  while  acting as  principals  might be  deemed to be  underwriting
discounts or commissions under the Securities Act.

            To the extent  required,  the shares of our common stock to be sold,
the names of the selling shareholders, the respective purchase prices and public
offering  prices,  the  names of any  agents,  dealer  or  underwriter,  and any
applicable  commissions or discounts with respect to a particular  offer will be
set  forth in an  accompanying  prospectus  supplement  or,  if  appropriate,  a
post-effective  amendment  to the  registration  statement  that  includes  this
prospectus.

            In order to  comply  with the  securities  laws of some  states,  if
applicable,  the common  stock may be sold in these  jurisdictions  only through
registered  or licensed  brokers or  dealers.  In  addition,  in some states the
common stock may not be sold unless it has been registered or qualified for sale
or an exemption from registration or qualification requirements is available and
is complied with.


                                      -2-
<PAGE>



            We have advised the selling shareholders that the  anti-manipulation
rules of Regulation M under the Exchange Act may apply to sales of shares in the
market and to the activities of the selling  shareholders and their  affiliates.
In addition,  we will make copies of this  prospectus (as it may be supplemented
or amended  from time to time)  available  to the selling  shareholders  for the
purpose of satisfying the  prospectus  delivery  requirements  of the Securities
Act. The selling  shareholders may indemnify any broker-dealer that participates
in transactions  involving the sale of the shares against  certain  liabilities,
including liabilities arising under the Securities Act.

            We  have  agreed  to  indemnify  the  selling  shareholders  against
liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act and state securities
laws, relating to the registration of the shares offered by this prospectus.

            We  have  agreed  with  the   selling   shareholders   to  keep  the
registration statement that includes this prospectus effective until the earlier
of (1) such  time as all of the  shares  covered  by this  prospectus  have been
disposed of pursuant to and in accordance with the registration statement or (2)
the  date on  which  the  shares  may be sold  pursuant  to Rule  144(k)  of the
Securities Act.


                                      -3-
</PRE>
</body>
</html>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.33
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>ex1033to10k_12312004.htm
<TEXT>
<html>
<head>
<title>sec document</title>
</head>
<body>
<PRE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.33
                                    AGREEMENT

            Reference is hereby made to that certain Purchase  Agreement,  dated
as of December 30, 2004 (the  "Purchase  Agreement"),  by and among NYFIX,  Inc.
("NYFIX")  and  Whitebox  Convertible  Arbitrage  Partners  L.P.   ("Whitebox"),
pursuant to which Whitebox purchased a $7,500,000 convertible promissory note of
NYFIX (the "Original Note"). All capitalized terms used herein but not otherwise
defined  herein  shall  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to them  in the  Purchase
Agreement.

            Pursuant to Section 2.2 of the Purchase Agreement,  Whitebox had the
option to elect within 90 days after the Closing Date (the "Election Period") to
purchase up to an additional $2,500,000  convertible promissory note on the same
terms and conditions as the Original Note.

            The parties hereto agree that the Election  Period shall be extended
until  such date which is 10 days after  NYFIX  files its Annual  Report on Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004.

            This agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
the laws of the State of New York,  This agreement may be executed in any number
of  counterparts,  each of which  shall be deemed to be an  original  and all of
which  together shall be deemed to be one and the same  instrument.  A facsimile
copy of a signature  page shall be deemed an original  signature for purposes of
this agreement and,  notwithstanding  Section 6.7 of the Purchase  Agreement,  a
facsimile shall be deemed a proper method of delivery of this agreement.

            IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,   the  undersigned  have  duly  executed  this
agreement as of the 30th day of March, 2005.

                                   NYFIX, Inc.



                                   By: /s/ Peter K Hansen
                                      -------------------------------
                                      Name:  Peter K. Hansen
                                      Title: President &amp; CEO


                                   Whitebox Convertible Arbitrage Partners, L.P.
                                    Whitebox Convertible Arbitrage Advisors LLC
                                        Whitebox Advisors LLC


                                   By: /s/ Andrew Redleaf
                                      -------------------------------
                                      Name:  Andrew Redleaf
                                      Title: Managing Member of the General
                                             Partner


</PRE>
</body>
</html>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.34
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>ex1034to10k_12312004.htm
<TEXT>
<html>
<head>
<title>sec document</title>
</head>
<body>
<PRE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.34

                               AGREEMENT TO AMEND
                  CONVERTIBLE PROMISSORY NOTE AND REGISTRATION
                     RIGHTS AGREEMENT AND TO WAIVE BREACHES

            This AGREEMENT TO AMEND CONVERTIBLE PROMISSORY NOTE AND REGISTRATION
RIGHTS  AGREEMENT  AND TO WAIVE  BREACHES is executed on and effective as of the
24th day of  June,  2005 by and  between  NYFIX,  Inc.  ("NYFIX")  and  Whitebox
Convertible Arbitrage Partners L.P ("Whitebox" and, with NYFIX, the "Parties").

            WHEREAS,  NYFIX and  Whitebox  entered  into that  certain  Purchase
Agreement  dated as of  December  30,  2004,  as amended on March 30,  2005 (the
"Purchase Agreement");

            WHEREAS,  pursuant  to  the  Purchase  Agreement,  NYFIX  issued  to
Whitebox that certain Unsecured Convertible Promissory Note dated as of December
30, 2004 in the principal  amount of Seven Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars
($7,500,000) (the "Note");

            WHEREAS,  NYFIX and Whitebox entered into that certain  Registration
Rights  Agreement  dated as of  December  30,  2004  (the  "Registration  Rights
Agreement");

            WHEREAS,  questions have arisen regarding the rights and obligations
of the  respective  Parties  under  the  Purchase  Agreement,  the  Note and the
Registration Rights Agreement; and

            WHEREAS, NYFIX and Whitebox wish to resolve these questions to their
mutual satisfaction.

            NOW THEREFORE,  in consideration of the above premises,  in order to
resolve the aforementioned  questions, and in consideration of the covenants and
promises contained herein, the Parties hereto agree as follows:

            1.   The  first  sentence  of  Section  4(b) of the  Note is  hereby
                 deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:

                     "The  'Conversion  Rate'  initially shall be
                     $5.75 (an amount equal to the product of (i)
                     the average (rounded to the nearest $.01) of
                     the closing  prices of Maker's  Common Stock
                     on  the   Trading   System   for  the   five
                     consecutive    trading   days    immediately
                     preceding  the date hereof,  and (ii) 1.16).
                     ."

            2.   The  first  sentence  of  Section  5(a) of the  Note is  hereby
                 deleted in its entirely and replaced with the following:



                                       1
<PAGE>



                     "If,  at any time  while any  portion of the
                     principal   or  interest  of  this  Note  is
                     outstanding,   the  closing   price  of  the
                     Maker's  Common Stock has  exceeded  150% of
                     the Conversion  Rate (as computed in Section
                     4(a)  above  and   subject   to   adjustment
                     pursuant to  Sections  4(b) and 4(c)) for at
                     least 10 trading days in the  30-trading day
                     period ending within five trading days prior
                     to the  date  of  the  Maker's  Notice,  and
                     provided that the Maker has, pursuant to the
                     terms of the Registration  Rights Agreement,
                     an effective  registration  statement  under
                     the Act and applicable state securities laws
                     covering the public resale of such shares by
                     Payee,   then   Maker  may  elect  to  cause
                     automatic  conversion  of all or any portion
                     of the outstanding  principal and/or accrued
                     but unpaid interest on this Note into shares
                     of the  Maker's  Common  Stock  based on the
                     Conversion Rate (as computed in Section 4(a)
                     above and subject to adjustment  pursuant to
                     Sections 4(b) and 4(c)).

            3.   Section  2.1 of the  Registration  Rights  Agreement  is hereby
                 amended as follows:

                 Reference to "June 30,  2005" in the first  sentence is changed
                 to "December 31, 2005" and reference to "September 30, 2005" in
                 the fourth sentence is changed to "March 31, 2006."

            4.   Whitebox  agrees to waive any and all  breaches and defaults by
                 NYFIX of or under  the  Purchase  Agreement,  the  Registration
                 Rights  Agreement or the Note that  occurred  from December 30,
                 2004  up  to  and   including   the  date  of   execution   and
                 effectiveness of this Agreement.

            5.   Except as set forth  herein,  all  provisions  of the  Purchase
                 Agreement, Registration Rights Agreement and the Note remain in
                 full force and effect.

            6.   This  Agreement may be executed in any number of  counterparts,
                 each of which shall be an original,  but all of which  together
                 constitute one instrument.

Acknowledged and agreed by:

NYFIX, INC.                                     WHITEBOX CONVERTIBLE ARBITRAGE
                                                   PARTNERS, L.P.



By /s/ Mark R. Hahn                             By /s/ Andrew Redleaf
   ----------------------------                    -----------------------------
   Its Chief Financial Officer                     Its Whitebox Advisors, LLC
                                                   (Managing Member)

                                       2

</PRE>
</body>
</html>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>ex211to10k_12312004.htm
<TEXT>
<html>
<head>
<title>sec document</title>
</head>
<body>
<PRE>


                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1



                        LIST OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES

NYFIX USA, LLC, a New York Limited Liability Company.

Javelin Technologies, Inc., a Delaware Corporation.

NYFIX Transaction Services, Inc., an Illinois Corporation.

NYFIX Overseas, Inc., a Delaware Corporation with branches in Chicago, IL and
London, UK.

NYFIX Millennium L.L.C., a Delaware Limited Liability Company (80% owned by
NYFIX, Inc.).

NYFIX Partners, Inc., a Delaware Corporation.

NYFIX Clearing Corporation, a Delaware Corporation.

Renaissance Trading Technologies, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company.

NYFIX International, Ltd., a United Kingdom Company.

EuroLink Network, Inc., a Delaware Corporation.




All subsidiaries are wholly-owned unless otherwise indicated.

</PRE>
</body>
</html>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>ex231to10k_12312004.htm
<TEXT>
<html>
<head>
<title>sec document</title>
</head>
<body>
<PRE>


                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.1

            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

        We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration  Statements
No. 333-70037,  No. 333-60314,  No. 333-83920,  No. 333-93943, No. 333-88350 and
No. 333-102493 on Form S-3 and No. 333-95285,  No. 333-81604,  No. 333-62158 and
No.  333-88346  on  Form  S-8 of  NYFIX,  Inc.  of our  report  relating  to the
consolidated  financial  statements  of NYFIX,  Inc.  dated June 28, 2005 (which
report  expresses an unqualified  opinion and includes an explanatory  paragraph
relating to the restatement  described in Note 2 to the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements) and of our report on internal control over financial reporting dated
June 28, 2005 (which report expresses an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of
the Company's  internal control over financial  reporting  because of a material
weakness)  appearing in this Annual  Report on Form 10-K of NYFIX,  Inc. for the
year ended December 31, 2004.



/S/ DELOITTE &amp; TOUCHE LLP


Stamford, Connecticut
June 28, 2005

</PRE>
</body>
</html>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>ex311to10k_12312004.htm
<TEXT>
<html>
<head>
<title>sec document</title>
</head>
<body>
<PRE>



                                                                    Exhibit 31.1

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
      RULE 13a-14(a) AND 15d-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002


I, Peter K. Hansen, certify that:

   1.    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of NYFIX, Inc.;

   2.    Based  on my  knowledge,  this  report  does  not  contain  any  untrue
         statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
         to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances  under which
         such  statements  were made, not misleading  with respect to the period
         covered by this report;

   3.    Based on my knowledge,  the financial  statements,  and other financial
         information  included in this  report,  fairly  present in all material
         respects the financial condition,  results of operations and cash flows
         of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

   4.    The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer and I are responsible for
         establishing  and  maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as
         defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e))  and internal
         control  over  financial  reporting  (as defined in Exchange  Act Rules
         13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

         a.    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures,  or caused such
               disclosure  controls  and  procedures  to be  designed  under our
               supervision,  to ensure that material information relating to the
               registrant,  including  its  consolidated  subsidiaries,  is made
               known to us by others within those entities,  particularly during
               the period in which this report is being prepared;

        b.     Designed  such  internal  control over  financial  reporting,  or
               caused such  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  to be
               designed under our supervision,  to provide reasonable  assurance
               regarding  the   reliability  of  financial   reporting  and  the
               preparation  of financial  statements  for  external  purposes in
               accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

        c.     Evaluated  the  effectiveness  of  the  registrant's   disclosure
               controls  and   procedures  and  presented  in  this  report  our
               conclusions  about the  effectiveness of the disclosure  controls
               and  procedures,  as of the  end of the  period  covered  by this
               report based on such evaluation; and

        d.     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's  internal
               control  over  financial   reporting  that  occurred  during  the
               registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's  fourth
               fiscal  quarter  in  the  case  of an  annual  report)  that  has
               materially  affected,  or  is  reasonably  likely  to  materially
               affect,   the   registrant's   internal  control  over  financial
               reporting; and

   5.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
        our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
        to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
        board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

        a.     All  significant  deficiencies  and  material  weaknesses  in the
               design or operation of internal control over financial  reporting
               which are reasonably  likely to adversely affect the registrant's
               ability  to  record,  process,  summarize  and  report  financial
               information; and

        b.     Any fraud,  whether or not material,  that involves management or
               other employees who have a significant  role in the  registrant's
               internal control over financial reporting.

 Date: June 28, 2005
/s/ Peter K. Hansen
- -------------------------------------------
Peter K. Hansen
President, Chief Executive and Chairman of the Board

</PRE>
</body>
</html>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31.2
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>ex312to10k_12312004.htm
<TEXT>
<html>
<head>
<title>sec document</title>
</head>
<body>
<PRE>


                                                                    Exhibit 31.2

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
      RULE 13a-14(a) AND 15d-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Mark R. Hahn, certify that:

   1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of NYFIX, Inc.;

   2.   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
        of a material  fact or omit to state a material  fact  necessary to make
        the  statements  made,  in light of the  circumstances  under which such
        statements  were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered
        by this report;

   3.   Based on my knowledge,  the financial  statements,  and other  financial
        information  included in this  report,  fairly  present in all  material
        respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows
        of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

   4.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer and I are  responsible for
        establishing  and  maintaining  disclosure  controls and  procedures (as
        defined in Exchange  Act Rules  13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e))  and internal
        control  over  financial  reporting  (as defined in  Exchange  Act Rules
        13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

        a.     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures,  or caused such
               disclosure  controls  and  procedures  to be  designed  under our
               supervision,  to ensure that material information relating to the
               registrant,  including  its  consolidated  subsidiaries,  is made
               known to us by others within those entities,  particularly during
               the period in which this report is being prepared;

        b.     Designed  such  internal  control over  financial  reporting,  or
               caused such  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  to be
               designed under our supervision,  to provide reasonable  assurance
               regarding  the   reliability  of  financial   reporting  and  the
               preparation  of financial  statements  for  external  purposes in
               accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

        c.     Evaluated  the  effectiveness  of  the  registrant's   disclosure
               controls  and   procedures  and  presented  in  this  report  our
               conclusions  about the  effectiveness of the disclosure  controls
               and  procedures,  as of the  end of the  period  covered  by this
               report based on such evaluation; and

        d.     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's  internal
               control  over  financial   reporting  that  occurred  during  the
               registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's  fourth
               fiscal  quarter  in  the  case  of an  annual  report)  that  has
               materially  affected,  or  is  reasonably  likely  to  materially
               affect,   the   registrant's   internal  control  over  financial
               reporting; and

    5.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
        our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting,
        to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
        board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

        a.     All  significant  deficiencies  and  material  weaknesses  in the
               design or operation of internal control over financial  reporting
               which are reasonably  likely to adversely affect the registrant's
               ability  to  record,  process,  summarize  and  report  financial
               information; and

        b.     Any fraud,  whether or not material,  that involves management or
               other employees who have a significant  role in the  registrant's
               internal control over financial reporting.

 Date: June 28, 2005
/s/ Mark R. Hahn
- -------------------------------------------
Mark R. Hahn
Chief Financial Officer

</PRE>
</body>
</html>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32.1
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>ex321to10k_12312004.htm
<TEXT>
<html>
<head>
<title>sec document</title>
</head>
<body>
<PRE>


                                                                    Exhibit 32.1

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                RULE 13a-14(b) AND 15d-14(b) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT

In connection with the Annual Report of NYFIX, Inc. (the "Company") on Form 10-K
for the  period  ending  December  31,  2004 as filed  with the  Securities  and
Exchange  Commission  on the date hereof  (the  "Report"),  I, Peter K.  Hansen,
Chairman,  President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, hereby certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350,  as adopted  pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of my knowledge, that:

   (1)  The Report fully  complies  with the  requirements  of section  13(a) or
        15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

   (2)  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
        respects,  the  financial  condition  and results of  operations  of the
        Company.


/s/ Peter K. Hansen
- ----------------------------------------------
Peter K. Hansen
President, Chief Executive and Chairman of the Board
June 28, 2005

A signed  original of this  written  statement  required by Section 906 has been
provided to NYFIX, Inc. and will be retained by NYFIX, Inc. and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

This  certification  accompanies  this  Report  pursuant  to Section  906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of 2002 and  shall not be deemed  filed by the  Company  for
purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.


</PRE>
</body>
</html>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32.2
<SEQUENCE>10
<FILENAME>ex322to10k_12312004.htm
<TEXT>
<html>
<head>
<title>sec document</title>
</head>
<body>
<PRE>



                                                                    Exhibit 32.2

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                RULE 13a-14(b) AND 15d-14(b) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT

In connection with the Annual Report of NYFIX, Inc. (the "Company") on Form 10-K
for the  period  ending  December  31,  2004 as filed  with the  Securities  and
Exchange  Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"),  I, Mark R. Hahn,  Chief
Financial Officer of the Company, hereby certify,  pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section
1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of 2002, to
the best of my knowledge, that:

   (1)  The Report fully  complies  with the  requirements  of section  13(a) or
        15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

   (2)  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
        respects,  the  financial  condition  and results of  operations  of the
        Company.


/s/ Mark R. Hahn
- ----------------------------------------------
Mark R. Hahn
Chief Financial Officer
June 28, 2005

A signed  original of this  written  statement  required by Section 906 has been
provided to NYFIX, Inc. and will be retained by NYFIX, Inc. and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

This  certification  accompanies  this  Report  pursuant  to Section  906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of 2002 and  shall not be deemed  filed by the  Company  for
purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

</PRE>
</body>
</html>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
