-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 R0SU5MZvQ/aT6DhGvYY7VVL+kfM2hwvW1elMJuoz5KUyymBzKSiSLpFtS28Rhpyn
 8DQiA7Nes0cDDrHTOrQCqQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950134-02-003027.txt : 20020415
<SEC-HEADER>0000950134-02-003027.hdr.sgml : 20020415
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-02-003027
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20011231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20020401

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS INC/DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000888919
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				760336636
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13790
		FILM NUMBER:		02595298

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		13403 NORTHWEST FRWY
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77040-6094
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7136907300
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>h95385e10-k.txt
<DESCRIPTION>HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS INC - YEAR END 12/21/2001
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                             ---------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

<Table>
<C>          <S>
    [X]      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
             OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.
   [   ]     TRANSACTION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.



             FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001
</Table>

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-20766
                             ---------------------
                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

<Table>
<S>                                            <C>
                   DELAWARE                                      76-0336636
       (State or other jurisdiction of                         (IRS Employer
        incorporation or organization)                      Identification No.)

           13403 NORTHWEST FREEWAY,                              77040-6094
                HOUSTON, TEXAS                                   (Zip Code)
   (Address of principal executive offices)
</Table>

              (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)
                                 (713) 690-7300

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

<Table>
<Caption>
             TITLE OF EACH CLASS                 NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED:
             -------------------                 ------------------------------------------
<S>                                            <C>
        Common Stock, $1.00 Par Value                     New York Stock Exchange
</Table>

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: NONE

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  [X]     No  [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K (sec.229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [ ]

     The aggregate market value on March 15, 2002, of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $1.6 billion. For purposes of
the determination of the above stated amount, only directors and executive
officers are presumed to be affiliates, but neither the registrant nor any such
person concede that they are affiliates of the registrant.

     The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's Common Stock, $1.00
par value, as of March 15, 2002 was 62.0 million.

     Documents incorporated by reference:  Information called for in Part III of
this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive Proxy
Statement to be filed within 120 days of the close of the Registrant's fiscal
year in connection with the Registrant's annual meeting of shareholders.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>

                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                        PAGE
                                                                        ----
<S>       <C>                                                           <C>
                                  PART I.
Item 1.   Business....................................................    2
Item 2.   Properties..................................................   32
Item 3.   Legal Proceedings...........................................   32
Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.........   33

                                  PART II.
Item 5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related
          Stockholder Matters.........................................   33
Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.....................................   33
Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
          and Results of Operations...................................   35
Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk...   50
Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.................   51
Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
          and Financial Disclosures...................................   51

                                 PART III.
Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant..........   51
Item 11.  Executive Compensation......................................   52
Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
          Management..................................................   52
Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..............   52

                                  PART IV.
Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form
          8-K.........................................................   52
Signatures............................................................   53
</Table>

     This report on Form 10-K contains certain "forward-looking statements"
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are intended to be covered by the
safe harbors created by those laws. We have based these forward-looking
statements on our current expectations and projections about future events.
These forward-looking statements include information about possible or assumed
future results of our operations. All statements, other than statements of
historical facts, included or incorporated by reference in this report that
address activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate may
occur in the future, including such things as future capital expenditures,
business strategy, competitive strengths, goals, growth of our business and
operations, plans and references to future successes may be considered
forward-looking statements. Also, when we use words such as "anticipate,"
"believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "probably" or similar
expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. Many risks and
uncertainties may impact the matters addressed in these forward-looking
statements.

     Many possible events or factors could affect our future financial results
and performance. These could cause our results or performance to differ
materially from those we express in our forward-looking statements. Although we
believe that the assumptions underlying our forward-looking statements are
reasonable, any of these assumptions, and therefore also the forward-looking
statements based on these assumptions, could themselves prove to be inaccurate.
In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking
statements which are included in this report, our inclusion of this information
is not a representation by us or any other person that our objectives and plans
will be achieved.

     Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made and we will
not update these forward-looking statements unless the securities laws require
us to do so. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, any
forward-looking events discussed in this report may not occur.

                                        1
<PAGE>

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

TERMINOLOGY

     As used in this report, unless otherwise required by the context, the terms
"we," "us" and "our" refer to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated
subsidiaries, and the term "HCC" refers only to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. All
trade names or trademarks appearing in this report are the property of their
respective holders.

  RISK FACTORS

     The following factors as well as other information contained in this report
should be considered.

IF WE CANNOT OBTAIN ADEQUATE REINSURANCE PROTECTION FOR THE RISKS WE HAVE
UNDERWRITTEN, WE WILL EITHER BE EXPOSED TO GREATER LOSSES FROM THESE RISKS OR WE
WILL REDUCE THE LEVEL OF BUSINESS WE UNDERWRITE, WHICH WILL REDUCE OUR REVENUES.

     We purchase reinsurance for significant amounts of risk underwritten by our
insurance companies, especially catastrophe risks. We also purchase reinsurance
on risks underwritten by others which we reinsure through a retrocession
agreement. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and
cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase, which may affect the level of
our business and profitability. For instance, the natural attrition of
reinsurers who exit lines of business, or who curtail their writings, for
economic or other reasons, reduces the capacity of the reinsurance market,
causing rates to rise. In addition, the historical results of reinsurance
programs and the availability of capital also affect the availability of
reinsurance. Our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal.
We cannot assure you that we can maintain our current reinsurance facilities or
that we can obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at
favorable rates. Further, we cannot determine at this time what the present and
longer term effects of the September 11, 2001 attacks or other future possible
terrorist attacks which result in catastrophic losses will have on the
reinsurance market in general and on our ability to obtain reinsurance in
adequate amounts and at favorable rates in particular. If we are unable to renew
our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net
exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net
exposures, we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments,
especially catastrophe exposed risks. Either of these potential developments
could have a material adverse effect on our business. The lack of available
reinsurance may also adversely affect our ability to generate fee and commission
income in our underwriting agency and reinsurance intermediary operations. A
reinsurance intermediary structures and arranges reinsurance between insurers
seeking to cede insurance risks and reinsurers willing to assume such risks.

IF THE COMPANIES THAT PROVIDE OUR REINSURANCE DO NOT PAY ALL OF OUR CLAIMS, WE
COULD INCUR SEVERE LOSSES.

     We purchase reinsurance by transferring, or ceding, part of the risk we
have assumed to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the premium we
receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer
liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred or ceded to the reinsurer, it
does not relieve us, the reinsured, of our liability to our policyholders.
Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. We cannot
assure you that our reinsurers will pay all of our reinsurance claims, or that
they will pay our claims on a timely basis.

     It is presently unclear what effect the attacks of September 11, 2001 will
ultimately have on the financial position of our reinsurers. At present, we can
neither determine the extent to which we will be liable, as a result of the
terrorist attacks of September 11, for risks we have ceded to reinsurers, nor
can we determine the extent to which our credit risk with respect to our
reinsurers may have increased because the reinsurers are in a weakened financial
position as a result of the September 11 attacks. If we become liable for risks
we have ceded with respect to the September 11 attacks or if our reinsurers
cease to meet their obligations to us, whether because they are in a weakened
position as a result of the September 11 attacks or otherwise, our results of
operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected.

                                        2
<PAGE>

IF WE ARE UNSUCCESSFUL IN COMPETING AGAINST LARGER OR MORE WELL-ESTABLISHED
BUSINESS RIVALS, OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WILL BE
ADVERSELY AFFECTED.

     In our specialty insurance operations, we compete in narrowly-defined niche
classes of business such as the insurance of private aircraft (aviation), and
employer sponsored, self-insured medical plans (medical stop-loss), as
distinguished from such general lines of business as automobile or homeowners
insurance. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected
lines of business, including: American International Group and U.S. Aviation
Insurance Group (a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc.) in our aviation line
of business; SAFECO Corporation and Hartford Life, Inc. in our medical stop-loss
line of business; and Underwriters at Lloyd's, ACE Limited and XL Capital Ltd.
in our accident and health line of business. We face competition both from
specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies and intermediaries as well
as from diversified financial services companies that are significantly larger
than we are and that have significantly greater financial, marketing and other
resources than we do. Some of these competitors also have longer experience and
more market recognition than we do. In addition to competition in the operation
of our business, we face competition from a variety of sources in attracting and
retaining qualified employees.

     We cannot assure you that we will maintain our current competitive position
in the markets in which we operate, or that we will be able to expand our
operations into new markets. If we fail to do so, our business could be
materially adversely affected.

BECAUSE WE ARE A PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURER, UNFORESEEN CATASTROPHIC LOSSES
MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION.

     Property and casualty insurers are subject to claims arising out of
catastrophes that may have a significant effect on their results of operations,
liquidity and financial condition. Catastrophic losses have had a significant
impact on our results. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including
hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions, severe winter
weather and fires and may include man-made events, such as the September 11,
2001 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center. The incidence, frequency and
severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from
a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the
area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are
restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes and
terrorist attacks may produce significant damage in large, heavily populated
areas. Catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of our property and casualty
lines, and most of our past catastrophe-related claims have resulted from
hurricanes and earthquakes; however, as a result of the September 11, 2001
terrorist attacks, we experienced the largest single loss to our insurance
company operations in our history. Insurance companies are not permitted to
reserve for a catastrophe until it has occurred. In 2002, we expect that
approximately 10% of our current business may be affected by catastrophes. It is
therefore possible that a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events
could have material adverse effect upon our results of operations, liquidity and
financial condition.

BECAUSE WE OPERATE INTERNATIONALLY, FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES MAY
AFFECT OUR RECEIVABLE AND PAYABLE BALANCES AND OUR RESERVES, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY
AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.

     We underwrite insurance coverages which are denominated in a number of
foreign currencies, and we establish and maintain our loss reserves with respect
to these policies in their respective currencies. Our net earnings could be
adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations, which would adversely affect
receivable and payable balances and reserves. Our principal area of exposure
relates to fluctuations in exchange rates between the major European currencies
(particularly the British pound sterling) and the U.S. dollar. Consequently, a
change in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the British pound
sterling could have an adverse effect on our net earnings.

     On a limited basis, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts as a
hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. The foreign currency forward
contracts are used to convert currency at a known rate in an amount that
approximates average monthly expenses. Thus, the effect of these transactions is
to limit the foreign

                                        3
<PAGE>

currency exchange risk of the recurring monthly expenses. We use these foreign
currency forward contracts strictly as a hedge against existing exposure to
foreign currency fluctuations rather than as a form of speculative or trading
investment.

IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH EXTENSIVE STATE, FEDERAL AND FOREIGN REGULATIONS, WE
WILL BE SUBJECT TO PENALTIES, WHICH MAY INCLUDE FINES AND SUSPENSION AND WHICH
MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.

     We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. Most
insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders
rather than shareholders and other investors. This regulation, generally
administered by a department of insurance in each state in which we do business,
relates to, among other things:

     - approval of policy forms and premium rates;

     - standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements (which
       are a measure developed by the National Association of Insurance
       Commissioners and used by state insurance regulators to identify
       insurance companies that potentially are inadequately capitalized);

     - licensing of insurers and their agents;

     - restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments;

     - restrictions on the ability of our insurance companies to pay dividends
       to us;

     - restrictions on transactions between insurance companies and their
       affiliates;

     - restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy;

     - requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders;

     - requiring certain methods of accounting;

     - periodic examinations of our operations and finances;

     - prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition
       required to be filed; and

     - requiring reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes.

     State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the
affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other
reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding
company issues and other matters.

     Recently adopted federal financial services modernization legislation is
expected to lead to additional federal regulation of the insurance industry in
the coming years. Also, foreign governments regulate our international
operations. Our business depends on compliance with applicable laws and
regulations and our ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for our
operations.

     Some regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant,
renew, or revoke licenses and approvals. Regulatory authorities may deny or
revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In
some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations,
or those that we believe to be generally followed by the industry, which may be
different from the requirements or interpretations of regulatory authorities. If
we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals and do not comply with
applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could
preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our
activities or otherwise penalize us. That type of action could have a material
adverse effect on our business. Also, changes in the level of regulation of the
insurance industry (whether federal, state or foreign), or changes in laws or
regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities, could have
a material adverse effect on our business.

                                        4
<PAGE>

IF THE RATING AGENCIES DOWNGRADE OUR COMPANY OR OUR INSURANCE COMPANIES, OUR
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPETITIVE POSITION IN THE INDUSTRY MAY SUFFER.

     Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the
competitive position of insurance companies. Our insurance companies are rated
by A.M. Best Company, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Corporation. A.M. Best Company,
Inc. and Standard & Poor's Corporation ratings reflect their opinions of an
insurance company's and insurance holding company's financial strength,
operating performance, strategic position, and ability to meet its obligations
to policyholders, and are not evaluations directed to investors. Our ratings are
subject to periodic review by A.M. Best Company, Inc. and Standard & Poor's
Corporation and the continued retention of those ratings cannot be assured. If
our ratings are reduced from their current levels by A.M. Best Company, Inc.
and/or Standard & Poor's Corporation, our results of operations could be
adversely affected.

OUR LOSS RESERVES ARE BASED ON AN ESTIMATE OF OUR FUTURE LIABILITY. IF ACTUAL
CLAIMS PROVE TO BE GREATER THAN OUR RESERVES, OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
FINANCIAL CONDITION MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED.

     We maintain loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for unpaid
losses and loss adjustment expenses, including legal and other fees as well as a
portion of our general expenses, for reported and unreported claims incurred as
of the end of each accounting period. Reserves do not represent an exact
calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what we
expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These
estimates, which generally involve actuarial projections, are based on our
assessment of facts and circumstances then known, as well as estimates of future
trends in claims severity, frequency, judicial theories of liability and other
factors. These variables are affected by both internal and external events, such
as changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends and
legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable in
advance. Additionally, there may be a significant reporting lag between the
occurrence of the insured event and the time it is reported to us. The inherent
uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain types of
liabilities, particularly those in which the various considerations affecting
the type of claim are subject to change and in which long periods of time may
elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made. Reserve estimates
are continually refined in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops
and further claims are reported and settled. Adjustments to reserves are
reflected in the results of the periods in which such estimates are changed.
Because setting reserves is inherently uncertain, there can be no assurance that
current reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent events.

     We have recorded a pre-tax gross loss related to the terrorist attacks of
September 11, 2001 of $141.0 million and a pre-tax net loss of $35.0 million. We
believe our estimates of gross and net losses to be reasonable, but they may be
subject to adjustment as we receive additional information from our clients and
producers. It is difficult to fully estimate our losses from the September 11,
2001 attacks given the uncertain nature of the damage theories related to
insurance claims made in connection with the attacks.

WE INVEST A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR ASSETS IN FIXED INCOME SECURITIES THAT
HAVE EXPERIENCED MARKET FLUCTUATIONS. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE FAIR MARKET VALUE OF
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES MAY GREATLY REDUCE THE VALUE OF OUR INVESTMENT
PORTFOLIO, AND AS A RESULT, OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION MAY SUFFER.

     As of December 31, 2001, $525.4 million of our $888.5 million investment
portfolio was invested in fixed income securities. The fair market value of
these fixed income securities and the investment income from these fixed income
securities fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. With
respect to our investments in fixed income securities, the fair market value of
these investments generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship
with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us
from future investments in fixed income securities will generally increase or
decrease with interest rates. In addition, actual net investment income and/or
cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk (such as mortgage-backed
and other asset-backed securities) may differ from those anticipated at the time
of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. An investment has
prepayment risk when there is a risk that the timing of cash flows that result
from the repayment of principal might occur earlier than anticipated because of
declining interest rates or later than anticipated because of rising interest
rates. Historically, the impact of market fluctuations has affected our
financial statements. Because all of our fixed income securities
                                        5
<PAGE>

are classified as available for sale, changes in the fair market value of our
securities are reflected in our other comprehensive income. Similar treatment is
not available for liabilities. Therefore, interest rate fluctuations could
adversely affect our generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP,
shareholders' equity, total comprehensive income and/or our cash flows.
Historically, the impact of market fluctuations has affected our financial
statements. Unrealized pre-tax net investment gains (losses) on investments in
fixed-income securities were $0.7 million, $11.9 million and ($19.0) million for
the years ended 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

IF STATES DRASTICALLY INCREASE THE ASSESSMENT OUR INSURANCE COMPANIES ARE
REQUIRED TO PAY, OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WILL SUFFER.

     Our insurance companies are subject to assessments in most states where we
are licensed for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered
claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed
insurance companies. Maximum contributions required by law in any one year vary
by state and have historically been between 1% and 2% of annual premiums
written. We cannot predict with certainty the amount of future assessments.
Significant assessments could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition or results of operations.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN DIVIDENDS IN NEEDED AMOUNTS FROM OUR INSURANCE
COMPANIES AS A RESULT OF REGULATORY RESTRICTIONS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MEET OUR
DEBT, DIVIDEND, AND EXPENSE OBLIGATIONS.

     Our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our insurance
companies. We may rely on dividends from our insurance companies to meet our
obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations,
dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses. The payment of dividends by
our insurance companies is subject to regulatory restrictions and will depend on
the surplus and future earnings of these subsidiaries, as well as the regulatory
restrictions. As a result, should our other sources of funds prove to be
inadequate, we may not be able to receive dividends from our insurance companies
at times and in amounts necessary to meet our obligations.

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

     We provide life, accident and health and property and casualty insurance
coverages, underwriting agency and intermediary services both to commercial
customers and individuals. We concentrate our activities in selected narrowly
defined specialty lines of business. We operate primarily in the United States
and the United Kingdom, although some of our operations have a broader
international scope. We underwrite insurance both on a direct basis, where we
insure a risk in exchange for a premium, and on a reinsurance basis, where we
insure all or a portion of another insurance company's risk in exchange for all
or a portion of the premium. We market our insurance products both directly to
customers and through a network of independent or affiliated agents and brokers.

     HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. is a Delaware corporation, which was formed in
1991. Its predecessor corporation was formed in 1974. Our principal executive
offices are located at 13403 Northwest Freeway, Houston, Texas 77040 and our
telephone number is (713) 690-7300. We maintain a World Wide Web-site at
www.hcch.com. The reference to our World Wide Web address does not constitute
the incorporation by reference of the information contained at this site in this
report.

     Since our founding, we have been consistently profitable, generally
reporting annual increases in gross written premium and total revenue. During
the period 1997 through 2001, we had an average statutory combined ratio of
98.3% versus the less favorable 106.3% (1997-2000) recorded by the U.S. property
and casualty insurance industry overall. During the same period, our gross
written premium increased from $346.4 million to $1.0 billion, an increase of
192% while net written premium increased 161% from $142.9 million to $373.0
million. During this period, our revenue increased from $281.5 million to $505.5
million, an increase of 80%.

     During the period December 31, 1997 through December 31, 2001, our
shareholders' equity increased from $365.8 million to $763.5 million, a 109%
increase. During the same period, our assets increased from $1.2 billion to $3.2
billion, a 169% increase.
                                        6
<PAGE>

     Our insurance companies are risk-bearing and focus their underwriting
activities on providing insurance and/or reinsurance in the following lines of
business:

     - life, accident and health

     - aviation

     - marine, energy and property

     - other specialty lines

     In the United States, Avemco Insurance Company, U.S. Specialty Insurance
Company and HCC Life Insurance Company operate on an admitted, or licensed,
basis. Houston Casualty Company operates on a surplus lines basis as a
non-admitted, or unlicensed, insurer offering insurance coverage not otherwise
available from an admitted insurer in the relevant state.

     Our operating property and casualty insurance companies are rated "A+
(Superior)" (2nd of 16 ratings) by A.M. Best Company, Inc. and "AA (Very
Strong)" (3rd of 22 ratings) by Standard and Poor's Corporation, two nationally
recognized independent rating agencies. Our life insurance company is rated "A
(Excellent)" (3rd of 16 ratings) by A.M. Best Company, Inc. These ratings are
intended to provide an independent opinion of an insurer's ability to meet its
obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed at investors.

     Our underwriting agencies underwrite on behalf of our insurance companies
and other insurance companies. They receive fees for these services and do not
bear any of the insurance risk of the companies for which they underwrite. Our
underwriting agencies generate revenues based entirely on management fees and
profit commissions and specialize in life, accident and health, contingency
(including contest indemnification, event cancellation, and weather coverages),
directors and officers liability, individual disability (for athletes and other
high profile individuals), kidnap and ransom, professional liability insurance
and other specialty lines of business. Our principal underwriting agencies, ASU
International, LLC, HCC Benefits Corporation and Professional Indemnity Agency,
Inc.

     In 2001 and 2002 we consolidated the operations of several of our agencies
with certain of our insurance companies to improve operational efficiencies.

     Our combined gross written premium in 2001 was over $1.3 billion, after
intercompany eliminations. Our insurance companies wrote $1.0 billion of gross
premium and our underwriting agencies wrote $808.1 million of premium, before
intercompany eliminations.

     Our intermediaries provide insurance and reinsurance brokerage services for
our insurance companies and our clients, and receive fees for their services.
Our intermediaries do not bear any of the insurance risks of their client
companies. They earn commission income and to a lesser extent fees for certain
services, generally paid by the insurance and reinsurance companies with whom
the business is placed. These operations consist of:

     - consulting on risks by providing information to clients about insurance
       coverage;

     - marketing risks by providing information and assistance on pricing a
       particular insurance risk;

     - placing risks by negotiating with insurers and reinsurers to accept an
       insurance risk; and

     - servicing risks by facilitating the collection of premiums and resolution
       of claims on behalf of their clients.

     Our intermediaries specialize in developing and marketing employee benefit
plans on a retail basis and in placing reinsurance for life, accident and
health, and property and casualty lines of business. Our principal
intermediaries are HCC Intermediaries, Inc., HCC Employee Benefits, Inc. and
Rattner Mackenzie Limited.

OUR STRATEGY

     Our business philosophy as an insurer is to maximize underwriting profits
while limiting risk in order to preserve shareholders' equity and maximize
earnings. We concentrate our insurance writings in selected, narrowly defined
lines of business where we believe we can achieve an underwriting profit. We
focus on lines of business that have relatively short lead times between the
occurrence of an insured event and the reporting of

                                        7
<PAGE>

claims. We market our insurance products both directly to customers and through
independent or affiliated agents and brokers.

     The property and casualty insurance industry and individual lines of
business within the industry are cyclical in that there are times when a large
number of companies offer insurance on certain lines of business, and the
premiums tend to go down, and other times where insurance companies decide to
limit their writings in certain lines of business or suffer from excessive
losses, which tends to increase the premiums for those companies that continue
to write insurance in those lines of business. In our insurance company
operations, we believe our operational flexibility, which permits us to shift
the focus of our insurance underwriting activity among our various lines of
business and also to shift the emphasis from our insurance risk-bearing business
to our non-insurance fee-based business, as well as our experienced underwriting
personnel and access to, and expertise in, the reinsurance marketplace allow us
to implement a strategy of emphasizing more profitable lines of business during
periods of increased premium rates and de-emphasizing less profitable lines of
business during periods of severe competition. In addition, we believe that our
underwriting agencies and intermediaries complement our insurance underwriting
activities. Our ability to utilize affiliated insurers, underwriting agencies
and intermediaries permits us to retain a greater portion of the gross revenue
derived from written premium.

     Reinsurance enables us to transfer part of the risk we have underwritten
through the process of ceding this risk to a reinsurance company in exchange for
part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. We purchase
reinsurance to limit the net loss from both individual and catastrophic risks to
our insurance companies. The amount of reinsurance we purchase varies by, among
other things, the particular risks inherent in the policies underwritten, the
pricing of reinsurance and the competitive conditions within the relevant line
of business.

     In 2001, due to a continuing hardening of the respective markets, premium
rates in the life, accident and health, aviation and marine, energy and property
lines of business increased. We anticipate continued improvements in these
markets and in all of our lines of business during 2002. In response to these
changing market conditions, we plan to continue to expand the underwriting
activities in our insurance company operations.

     We also acquire or make strategic investments in companies that present an
opportunity for future profits or for enhancement of our business. We expect to
continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses with established management
and established reputations in the insurance industry. We believe that we can
enhance acquired businesses through the synergies created by our underwriting
capabilities and our other operations. However, our business plan is shaped by
our underlying business philosophy, which is to maximize underwriting profit,
while preserving shareholders' equity. As a result, our primary objective is to
increase net earnings rather than market share or gross written premium.

     In our ongoing operations, we will continue to:

     - emphasize the underwriting of lines of business in which premium rates,
       the availability and cost of reinsurance, and market conditions warrant;

     - limit our net loss exposure to our insurance companies from a catastrophe
       loss through the use of reinsurance; and

     - review the potential acquisition of specialty insurance operations and
       other strategic investments.

INDUSTRY SEGMENT INFORMATION

     Financial information concerning our operations by industry segment is set
forth in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto.

                                        8
<PAGE>

MAJOR ACQUISITIONS

     We have made a series of strategic acquisitions that have furthered our
overall business strategy. Our recent larger transactions are described below:

     On January 31, 1999, we acquired PEPYS Holdings Limited. PEPYS is a holding
company for Rattner Mackenzie Limited. The initial consideration was $54.8
million in cash and deferred payments of $8.3 million in cash and 414,207 shares
of our common stock. As of December 31, 2001, we have accrued $0.7 million and
may pay additional amounts in the future based upon the attainment of certain
earnings benchmarks through December 31, 2003. Rattner Mackenzie Limited
provides intermediary services for reinsurance business placed by our insurance
companies as well as other insurance and reinsurance companies and underwriting
agencies, primarily in the accident and health area.

     On December 20, 1999, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of the
publicly traded The Centris Group, Inc. following a tender offer at a price of
$12.50 per share in cash. We paid $149.5 million for The Centris Group, Inc.'s
acquisition. The Centris Group, Inc. was the parent corporation of a group of
insurance companies and underwriting agencies principally operating in the
medical stop-loss line of business. The Centris Group, Inc.'s primary insurance
company subsidiary was the entity now known as HCC Life Insurance Company. HCC
Life Insurance Company's operations were relocated to Houston, and it has become
a subsidiary of Houston Casualty Company. The medical stop-loss underwriting
agency operations of The Centris Group, Inc. have been combined with HCC
Benefits' Corporation operations.

     On January 19, 2001, we issued 996,805 shares of our common stock to
acquire the Schanen Consulting Corporation and its operating subsidiary, The
Schanen Consulting Group, LLC. The Schanen Consulting Group, LLC provides
employee benefit consulting and retail insurance intermediary services and has
been consolidated with HCC Employee Benefits, Inc.'s operations.

     On October 22, 2001, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Marshall
Rattner, Inc. Marshall Rattner, Inc. is a holding company for Professional
Indemnity Agency, Inc. and its related companies. We paid $63.0 million in cash
and 300,000 shares of our common stock for the Marshall Rattner, Inc./
Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc. acquisition. Professional Indemnity Agency,
Inc. is an underwriting agency specializing in the errors and omissions, kidnap
and ransom and professional liability areas.

     On October 30, 2001, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of ASU
International, Inc. and the membership interests in its affiliate, ASU
International, LLC. We paid $29.2 million for the ASU International, LLC
acquisition. ASU International, LLC is an underwriting agency specializing in
contingency and disability insurance. We may pay additional amounts in the
future based upon the attainment of certain earnings benchmarks through December
31, 2004.

     We continue to evaluate possible acquisition candidates and we may complete
additional acquisitions during 2002. Any future acquisitions will be designed to
expand and strengthen our existing lines of business and perhaps provide access
to additional specialty sectors, which we expect to contribute to our overall
growth.

DISPOSITIONS

     In March, 2000, we sold Trafalgar Insurance Company, an Oklahoma domiciled
insurance company subsidiary, for a price which approximated its shareholder's
equity determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in
the United States, or GAAP.

     In September, 2000, we sold a substantial portion of the assets of The
Wheatley Group, Ltd., a subsidiary of Avemco Corporation.

     In September, 2001, we sold substantially all of the assets of Universal
Loss Management, Inc., our aviation claims administration services company for
$5.6 million plus an additional amount based on future revenue of the operation.

                                        9
<PAGE>

     In September, 2001, we sold USF Insurance Company, a Pennsylvania domiciled
insurance company and former subsidiary of The Centris Group, Inc. for
approximately $2.0 million in excess of its shareholder's equity in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles.

     None of these operations were material to our financial condition, results
of operations or cash flows.

INSURANCE COMPANY OPERATIONS

  LINES OF BUSINESS

     This table shows our insurance companies' total premium written, otherwise
known as gross written premium, by line of business and the percentage of each
line to total gross written premium for the years indicated (dollars in
thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                             2001              2000             1999
                                       ----------------   --------------   --------------
<S>                                    <C>          <C>   <C>        <C>   <C>        <C>
Life, accident and health............  $  629,228    62%  $546,702    56%  $217,659    38%
Aviation.............................     198,015    20    191,089    20    210,029    37
Marine, energy and property..........      83,068     8     64,352     7     82,003    15
Other specialty lines................      15,602     2     29,281     3     17,962     3
                                       ----------   ---   --------   ---   --------   ---
                                          925,913    92    831,424    86    527,653    93
Exited and discontinued lines of
  business...........................      84,162     8    136,033    14     40,678     7
                                       ----------   ---   --------   ---   --------   ---
          Total gross written
            premium..................  $1,010,075   100%  $967,457   100%  $568,331   100%
                                       ==========   ===   ========   ===   ========   ===
</Table>

     This table shows our insurance companies' actual premium retained,
otherwise known as net written premium, by line of business and the percentage
of each line to total net written premium for the years indicated (dollars in
thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                          2001             2000             1999
                                     --------------   --------------   --------------
<S>                                  <C>        <C>   <C>        <C>   <C>        <C>
Life, accident and health..........  $188,580    51%  $148,100    52%  $ 48,899    35%
Aviation...........................    98,249    26     79,794    28     68,513    49
Marine, energy and property........    34,750     9     16,256     6      9,561     7
Other specialty lines..............    14,390     4     14,552     5      8,730     6
                                     --------   ---   --------   ---   --------   ---
                                      335,969    90    258,702    91    135,703    97
Exited and discontinued lines of
  business.........................    36,989    10     25,086     9      4,221     3
                                     --------   ---   --------   ---   --------   ---
          Total net written
            premium................  $372,958   100%  $283,788   100%  $139,924   100%
                                     ========   ===   ========   ===   ========   ===
</Table>

  UNDERWRITING

  Direct

     We underwrite direct business produced through independent agents and
brokers, affiliated intermediaries, and by direct marketing efforts. Our direct
underwriting includes general aviation, medical stop-loss and professional
liability business.

  Reinsurance

     In 2001 and prior years, our insurance companies participated in certain
insurance and reinsurance underwriting pools managed by our underwriting
agencies, in the life, accident and health line of business. Our insurance
companies also write facultative, or individual account, reinsurance,
particularly in the aviation and marine, energy and property lines of business.
Our facultative underwriting is typically on international business in order to
comply with local licensing requirements or as reinsurance of captive insurance
companies controlled by others, and can be considered direct business for most
purposes, since we maintain underwriting

                                        10
<PAGE>

and claims control. However, we record all of this business under the caption of
"Reinsurance Assumed" in our financial statements.

  Life, Accident and Health

     We began writing accident and health reinsurance risks through Houston
Casualty Company in 1996 through its participation in reinsurance facilities
managed by LDG Reinsurance Corporation. Our gross written premium increased from
$114.8 million in 1998 to $128.2 million in 2001. Net written premium in this
area increased because Houston Casualty Company retained a larger percentage of
the increased gross premium. During 2001, we began to produce and underwrite
this business directly through Houston Casualty Company and at the beginning of
2002, we completed the consolidation of LDG Reinsurance Corporation's new
business operations into Houston Casualty Company. We maintain reinsurance on an
excess of loss basis, where we transfer liability, premium and loss on a
non-proportional basis above our net retention of risk to reinsurers, to protect
us against severe losses on individual risks and catastrophe exposures.

     We write medical stop-loss business for employer-sponsored, self-insured
health plans. Our medical stop-loss insurance provides coverages to companies,
associations and public entities that elect to self-insure their employee's
medical coverage for losses within specified levels, allowing them to manage the
risk of excessive health insurance exposure by limiting aggregate and specific
losses to a predetermined amount. When measured on a gross written premium
basis, medical stop-loss was our largest single line of business in 2001. We
also underwrite a limited program of group life insurance offered to our
insureds as complement to our medical stop-loss products. Group life gross
premium in 2001 amounted to $0.7 million. Our underwriting agency, HCC Benefits
Corporation, produces and underwrites this business on behalf of our insurance
companies. We first began writing this business in our insurance companies in
1997 and gross written premium and net written premium have increased as a
result of greater participation by our insurance companies, primarily HCC Life
Insurance Company and Avemco Insurance Company. HCC Benefits Corporation's
business has grown both internally and through acquisitions, most notably of The
Centris Group, Inc. HCC Benefits Corporation began underwriting this business in
1980. The 2001 gross written premium in our medical stop-loss line of business
underwritten in our insurance companies was $426.6 million and net written
premium was $140.9 million. We maintain reinsurance on a proportional basis,
where we share a proportional part of the original premium and losses with
reinsurers, and believe that these risks carry a relatively low level of
catastrophe exposure.

     We began writing alternative workers' compensation and occupational
accident insurance to independent truckers in 1996. This business is currently
written through U.S. Specialty Insurance Company. We maintain reinsurance on an
excess of loss basis. We believe there is a relatively low level of catastrophe
exposure in our alternative workers' compensation line of business.

  Aviation

     We have grown into a market leader in the aviation insurance industry. We
insure general aviation risks, both domestically and internationally, including:

     - antique and vintage military aircraft

     - cargo operations

     - commuter airlines

     - corporate aircraft

     - fixed base operations

     - military and law enforcement aircraft

     - private aircraft owners and pilots

     - rotor wing aircraft

     We offer coverages that include hulls, engines, avionics and other systems,
liabilities, war, cargo and other ancillary coverages. At this time, we do not
generally insure major airlines, major manufacturers or satellites. Insurance
claims related to general aviation business tend to be seasonal, with the
majority of the claims being incurred during the spring and summer months.

     We have been underwriting aviation risks through Houston Casualty Company
since 1981. Avemco Insurance Company has been insuring aviation risks since
1959. Our gross written premium has remained
                                        11
<PAGE>

relatively flat during the period 1998 to 2001. During this period we have
successfully re-underwritten our book of business, removing under-performing
classes of business where premium rates were insufficient and focusing on areas
where increasing rates were able to generate profitable business. Our aviation
net written premium increased during the period because we increased our
retentions, i.e., the portion of risk that we retain for our own account.

     We maintain reinsurance on both a proportional and excess of loss basis. We
believe that the aviation risks we underwrite carry a relatively low level of
catastrophe exposures.

  Marine, Energy and Property

     We underwrite marine risks for oceangoing vessels as well as inland,
coastal trading and fishing vessels. The marine risks we write include:

     - hull and machinery

     - liabilities, including protection and
       indemnity

     - marine cargo

     - various ancillary coverages

     We have underwritten marine risks since 1984, primarily in Houston Casualty
Company. Competition has created downward pressure on premium rates since 1996,
causing a reduction in our gross written premium since 1997 and a corresponding
decrease in net written premium. During 2001 we have seen rate increases that
are encouraging and we expect this trend to continue in 2002.

     We maintain marine reinsurance on both a facultative and an excess of loss
basis. We believe that the marine risks we underwrite carry a relatively low
level of catastrophe exposure.

     We have been underwriting energy risks since 1988, primarily in Houston
Casualty Company. The energy risks we write include:

     - drilling rigs

     - natural gas facilities

     - petrochemical plants

     - pipelines

     - production and gathering platforms

     - refineries

     We underwrite physical damage, liabilities, business interruption and
various ancillary coverages.

     Rates have been relatively low during the past few years at levels where
underwriting profitability has been difficult to obtain. As a result, we have
underwritten offshore energy risks on a very selective basis, striving for
quality rather than quantity. During 2001 we have seen rate increases that are
encouraging and we expect this trend to continue in 2002.

     We maintain energy reinsurance on both a facultative basis and an excess of
loss basis to protect us against severe losses on individual risks and the
catastrophe exposure that exists, for example, from a hurricane or a major
platform explosion.

     In the property area, we specialize in writing risks of large, often
multinational, corporations, covering a variety of commercial risks including:

     - factories

     - hotels

     - industrial plants

     - office buildings

     - retail locations

     - utilities

     The insurance we offer includes business interruption, physical damage and
catastrophe risks including flood and earthquake.

     We have written property business since 1986, primarily through Houston
Casualty Company. Gross written premium declined from $106.5 million in 1998 to
$45.0 million in 2001 as premium rates were soft due in a large part to excess
capacity and the absence of significant catastrophe losses. Net written premium

                                        12
<PAGE>

increased slightly from $8.4 million to $9.5 million in the same period. Our
property gross written premium exceeds our net written premium by a substantial
amount due to the amount of facultative reinsurance, which is the separately
negotiated reinsurance of all or part of the coverage provided by a single
policy, and other reinsurance purchased in order to protect us from catastrophe
losses. During 2001 we have seen rate increases that are encouraging and we
expect this trend to continue in 2002.

     We maintain reinsurance on both a proportional basis and an excess of loss
basis in an effort to ensure adequate reinsurance protection, particularly
against catastrophe exposures. We estimate our aggregate probable maximum loss
in any individual catastrophe zone and maintain catastrophe reinsurance in an
amount we believe will cover such exposure to any one occurrence.

  Other Specialty Lines

     In addition to the above, we underwrite insurance in a variety of other
specialty lines of business, but the specific lines of business included in this
caption are too small at this time to break out separately.

  Exited and Discontinued Lines of Business

     Our exited and discontinued lines of business include provider excess,
lender's single interest, program property and casualty and primary statutory
workers' compensation business.

  PRINCIPAL INSURANCE COMPANIES

  Houston Casualty Company

     Houston Casualty Company is our principal insurance company subsidiary. It
is rated "A+ (Superior), IX (policyholders' surplus between $250.0 million and
$500.0 million)" by A.M. Best Company, Inc. and "AA (Very Strong)" by Standard &
Poor's Corporation. Houston Casualty Company operates worldwide and is domiciled
and licensed in Texas and operates on a surplus lines basis in 47 states.
Houston Casualty Company receives business through independent agents and
brokers, our underwriting agencies and intermediaries, and other insurance and
reinsurance companies. Houston Casualty Company has a highly experienced staff
of underwriters trained to deal with the high value, complicated exposures
prevailing in many of the lines of business in which we specialize. It is our
intention to utilize Houston Casualty Company as an issuing carrier for certain
business underwritten by ASU International, LLC and Professional Indemnity
Agency, Inc. and in 2002 Houston Casualty Company began writing directors and
officers liability and professional liability. As of December 31, 2001, Houston
Casualty Company's policyholders' surplus was $285.4 million, which is its total
admitted assets less total liabilities determined in accordance with statutory
accounting principles. Houston Casualty Company's shareholder's equity in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles was $379.3 million as
of December 31, 2001.

     In 2001 and 2002, we consolidated the new business operations of our
accident and health reinsurance underwriting agency, LDG Reinsurance
Corporation, with those of Houston Casualty Company.

  Houston Casualty Company - London

     Houston Casualty Company operates a full branch office in the United
Kingdom. Houston Casualty Company established its London branch operation in
order to more closely align its underwriting operations with the London market,
a historical focal point for much of the business that Houston Casualty Company
underwrites. Houston Casualty Company - London underwrites accident and health
reinsurance, marine, energy and property business.

  HCC Life Insurance Company

     HCC Life Insurance Company is an Indiana-domiciled life insurance company
which became a direct subsidiary of Houston Casualty Company in December, 1999
following The Centris Group, Inc. acquisition. HCC Life Insurance Company is
rated "A (Excellent), VII (policyholders' surplus between $50.0 million and
$100.0 million)" by A.M. Best Company, Inc. and operates as a life, accident and
health insurer on an

                                        13
<PAGE>

admitted basis in 41 states and the District of Columbia. HCC Life Insurance
Company is an issuing carrier for medical stop-loss products produced and
underwritten by HCC Benefits Corporation. As of December 31, 2001, HCC Life
Insurance Company had statutory policyholders' surplus of $77.1 million and
shareholder's equity in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
of $88.4 million.

  U.S. Specialty Insurance Company

     U.S. Specialty Insurance Company is a Texas-domiciled property and casualty
insurance company. It is a direct subsidiary of Houston Casualty Company. U.S.
Specialty Insurance Company is rated "A+ (Superior), VIII (policyholders'
surplus between $100.0 million and $250.0 million)" by A.M. Best Company, Inc.
and "AA (Very Strong)" by Standard & Poor's Corporation. U.S. Specialty
Insurance Company operates on an admitted basis throughout the United States,
primarily writing general aviation, occupational accident and alternative
workers' compensation insurance. In September, 2001, we decided that U.S.
Specialty Insurance Company would exit the statutory workers' compensation
market. It is our intention to utilize U.S. Specialty Insurance Company as an
issuing carrier for certain business underwritten by ASU International, LLC and
Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc., and in 2002 U.S. Specialty Insurance
Company began writing directors and officers liability and professional
liability business produced by Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc. As of
December 31, 2001, U.S. Specialty Insurance Company had statutory policyholders'
surplus of $105.9 million and shareholder's equity in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles of $116.3 million.

  Avemco Insurance Company

     Avemco Insurance Company is a Maryland-domiciled property and casualty
insurer, is rated "A+ (Superior), VIII (policyholders' surplus between $100.0
million and $250.0 million)" by A.M. Best Company, Inc. and "AA (Very Strong)"
by Standard & Poor's Corporation, and is operating as a direct market
underwriter of general aviation business on an admitted basis throughout the
United States and Canada (except Quebec). In addition, Avemco Insurance Company
is an issuing carrier for medical stop-loss products produced and underwritten
by HCC Benefits Corporation and for indemnity accident and health business
produced by an unaffiliated agency. The latter business is fully reinsured. As
of December 31, 2001, Avemco Insurance Company had statutory policyholders'
surplus of $107.1 million and shareholder's equity in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles of $117.2 million.

UNDERWRITING AGENCY OPERATIONS

     Our underwriting agencies act on behalf of our insurance companies and
those of other firms, and provide insurance underwriting management and claims
administration services. Our underwriting agencies do not assume any insurance
or reinsurance risk themselves and generate revenues based entirely on
management fees and profit commissions. These subsidiaries are in a position to
direct and control business that they produce. Our insurance companies serve as
policy issuing companies for the majority of the business written by our
underwriting agencies. Our insurance companies may retain a portion of the risk
and reinsure the remainder with unaffiliated insurance companies or reinsure all
of the risk. In instances where our insurance companies are not the policy
issuing company, our insurance companies may reinsure the business written by
the underwriting agencies. Management fees generated by our underwriting
agencies in 2001 amounted to $61.8 million.

  LINES OF BUSINESS

     This table shows our underwriting agencies' revenue by line of business for
the years indicated (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                            2001            2000            1999
                                        -------------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                     <C>       <C>   <C>       <C>   <C>       <C>
Life, accident and health.............  $47,857    77%  $70,536    73%  $66,127    73%
Property and casualty.................   13,938    23    25,522    27    24,586    27
                                        -------   ---   -------   ---   -------   ---
          Total management fees.......  $61,795   100%  $96,058   100%  $90,713   100%
                                        =======   ===   =======   ===   =======   ===
</Table>

                                        14
<PAGE>

  HCC BENEFITS CORPORATION

     HCC Benefits Corporation, with its home office in Atlanta, Georgia and
regional offices in Costa Mesa, California; Wakefield, Massachusetts;
Minneapolis, Minnesota; and Dallas, Texas, acts as an underwriting manager
writing medical stop-loss products for employer sponsored self-insured health
plans. In 2001, HCC Benefits Corporation generated approximately $51.4 million
in management fees. Substantially all of the business was underwritten on behalf
of HCC Life Insurance Company and Avemco Insurance Company.

  PROFESSIONAL INDEMNITY AGENCY, INC.

     We acquired Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc. in October, 2001.
Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc., with its home office in Mount Kisco, New
York and branch offices in San Francisco, California and Palm Beach Gardens,
Florida, acts as an underwriting manager writing directors and officers
liability, kidnap and ransom and professional liability insurance coverages. For
the full year 2001, Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc. generated $20.4 million
in management fees on premium written on behalf of unaffiliated insurers.
Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc. will underwrite some of the above lines of
business on behalf of our insurance companies in 2002.

  ASU INTERNATIONAL, LLC

     We acquired ASU International, LLC in October, 2001. ASU International,
LLC, with its home office in Woburn, Massachusetts and a branch office in
London, England acts as an underwriting manager of specialty insurance for the
sports, entertainment and promotion marketing industries. ASU International, LLC
offers contingency insurance (including contest indemnity, event cancellation
and weather coverages) and individual disability insurance for athletes and
other high profile individuals. For the full year 2001, ASU International, LLC
generated $13.8 million in management fees on premium written on behalf of
unaffiliated insurers. ASU International, LLC will underwrite selected risks in
some of the above lines of business on behalf of our insurance companies in
2002.

  OTHER AGENCY OPERATIONS

     We have consolidated certain of our other underwriting agencies with
certain of our insurance companies for the purpose of improving the operational
efficiencies of our business. We have consolidated the operations of our
domestic general aviation underwriting agency, HCC Aviation Insurance Group,
Inc., and our occupational accident and alternative workers' compensation
underwriting agency, HCC Employer Services, Inc. into U.S. Specialty Insurance
Company. We have also consolidated both offices of our accident and health
reinsurance underwriting agency, LDG Reinsurance Corporation, into Houston
Casualty Company.

INTERMEDIARY OPERATIONS

     Our intermediaries provide a variety of services, including marketing,
placing, consulting on and servicing insurance risks for their clients, which
include medium to large corporations, insurance and reinsurance companies and
other risk taking entities. The intermediaries earn commission income and to a
lesser extent fees for certain services, generally paid by the underwriters with
whom the business is placed. Some of these risks may be initially underwritten
by our insurance companies, which may retain a portion of the risk. Commission
income generated by our intermediaries in 2001 amounted to $43.4 million.

     This table shows our intermediaries' revenue by line of business for the
years indicated (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                            2001            2000            1999
                                        -------------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                     <C>       <C>   <C>       <C>   <C>       <C>
Life, accident and health.............  $33,739    78%  $36,795    74%  $39,354    68%
Property and casualty.................    9,673    22    13,091    26    18,879    32
                                        -------   ---   -------   ---   -------   ---
          Total commission income.....  $43,412   100%  $49,886   100%  $58,233   100%
                                        =======   ===   =======   ===   =======   ===
</Table>

                                        15
<PAGE>

  RATTNER MACKENZIE LIMITED

     Rattner Mackenzie Limited is an intermediary based in London, England.
Rattner Mackenzie Limited is a Lloyd's broker specializing in accident and
health reinsurance and some specialty property and casualty lines of business.
Rattner Mackenzie Limited is considered a market leader in its core businesses.
Rattner Mackenzie Limited serves as an intermediary for reinsurance business
placed by unaffiliated and affiliated insurance companies and reinsurance
companies and underwriting agencies.

  HCC EMPLOYEE BENEFITS, INC.

     HCC Employee Benefits, Inc., with operations in Houston, Texas and Atlanta,
Georgia, is a retail insurance agency and consulting firm specializing in life,
accident and health insurance for employee benefit plans of medium and large
commercial customers throughout the United States. We acquired Schanen
Consulting Corporation of Atlanta, Georgia in January 2001 and consolidated its
operations with those of HCC Employee Benefits, Inc.

  HCC INTERMEDIARIES, INC.

     HCC Intermediaries, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is an intermediary
specializing in marketing and servicing large, complicated insurance and
reinsurance programs placed on behalf of multinational clients operating in our
lines of business. This business is placed with domestic and international
insurance companies, including our insurance companies, on a direct basis and
through other intermediaries. In addition, HCC Intermediaries, Inc. acts as a
reinsurance intermediary on behalf of affiliated and non-affiliated insurance
companies.

OTHER OPERATIONS

     Our other operations historically consisted of insurance related services
offered to our subsidiaries, our reinsurers and unaffiliated entities. The
revenue earned from these services primarily consisted of fees or commissions.
The primary operating entities in this segment provided insurance claims
adjusting services. During 2001, we sold the last of our service operations,
which will result in a decrease in other operating income in future years.
Additionally, other operating income may be in the form of equity in the
earnings of a company in which we invest, or dividends or gains or losses from
the disposition of these investments. Other operating income was $17.4 million
in 2001. Revenue and earnings can vary considerably from period to period
depending on investment or disposition activity.

REINSURANCE CEDED

     We purchase reinsurance to reduce our net liability on individual risks, to
protect against catastrophe losses and to achieve a desired ratio of net written
premium to policyholders' surplus. We purchase reinsurance on both a
proportional and an excess of loss basis. We believe that we reinsure our risks
to a greater extent than most of our competitors and most other insurance
companies. We use this strategy to protect our shareholders' equity.

     The type, cost and limits of reinsurance we purchase can vary from year to
year based upon our desired retention levels and the availability of quality
reinsurance at an acceptable price. Our reinsurance programs renew throughout
the year and during 2001 some of those renewed contained price increases which
are not material to our underwriting results. Additionally, we retained higher
percentages of our business in connection with certain lines of business which
are reinsured on a proportional basis. We plan to continue to increase our
retentions as underwriting conditions improve in many of our lines of business.

     We consider the maintenance of reinsurance protection to be an important
part of our business plan, protecting shareholders' equity from catastrophe
losses and fluctuations in the insurance market cycles of the insurance
industry. We have built important relationships over the years with many core
reinsurers. We intend to continue to share our business with these partners as
underwriting profitability returns in an improving market in order to build even
stronger relationships for the future. We believe that increased retentions
during

                                        16
<PAGE>

profitable periods are made possible not at the sacrifice of core reinsurers but
through reduction of facultative reinsurance and the natural attrition of
certain reinsurers who exit lines of business or curtail their writings for
other reasons. This reduction in reinsurance market capacity causes rates to
rise but the increased rates historically have been passed on to the original
insureds.

     We structure a specific reinsurance program for each line of business we
underwrite. We place this reinsurance in order to protect our insurance
companies from exposure to foreseeable events. We place reinsurance
proportionally to cover loss frequency and catastrophe exposure. We obtain
additional reinsurance on an excess of loss basis to cover individual risk
severity of loss and on a catastrophe basis to cover exposure from occurrences
involving multiple risks, such as those resulting from a hurricane, an
earthquake or a man-made event, such as a terrorist attack. Additionally, we may
also obtain facultative reinsurance protection on an excess of loss or
proportionate basis on any single risk. We do not intend to expose our assets to
any net loss in excess of our reinsurance protection.

     Certain of our lines of business are exposed to catastrophe losses in a
greater degree than others. We have exposures to this type of loss primarily in
our accident and health reinsurance, energy and property lines of business. We
carefully assess our overall exposure to a single catastrophic event and apply
procedures that we believe are more conservative than are typically used by the
industry to ascertain our probable maximum loss from any single event.

     Subsequent to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, where possible,
we canceled all terrorist coverage under the terms of existing in-force
policies, primarily in the property and energy lines of business. All new and
renewal policies are written with an appropriate terrorist exclusion except for
lines of business, such as aviation, where reinsurance for acts of terrorism is
available at an economic cost or where we feel comfortable with the net
exposure.

     At January 1, 2002, and February 1, 2002, respectively, our onshore energy
and property reinsurance protections were renewed without coverage for acts of
terrorism. Therefore, to the extent that certain existing, in-force policies
contain such coverage, then we would have a net exposure to any applicable
losses. The actual amount of this exposure is not determinable but could
represent a catastrophic loss, a risk for which we would usually purchase
reinsurance protection. We do not believe that any loss would severely impact
our capital. As each month goes by, existing in-force policies will expire and
the overall exposure continues to reduce substantially.

     In general, we receive an overriding (ceding) commission on the premium
ceded to reinsurers. This compensates our insurance companies for the direct
costs associated with the production of the business, the servicing of the
business during the term of the policies ceded and the costs associated with the
placement of the related reinsurance. In addition, certain of our reinsurance
treaties allow us to share with the reinsurers in any net profits generated
under such treaties.

     Various intermediaries, including HCC Intermediaries, Inc. and Rattner
Mackenzie Limited, arrange for the placement of this reinsurance coverage on our
behalf and are compensated, directly or indirectly, by the reinsurers.

                                        17
<PAGE>

     The table below shows property and casualty reinsurance balances relating
to our reinsurers with net recoverable balances greater than $15.0 million as of
December 31, 2001. The total recoverables column includes paid loss recoverable,
outstanding loss recoverable, incurred but not reported recoverables and ceded
unearned premium (in thousands).

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                  LETTERS OF CREDIT,
                                                                                    CASH DEPOSITS
                                        CURRENT                       TOTAL           AND OTHER
REINSURER                               RATING       LOCATION      RECOVERABLES        PAYABLES          NET
- ---------                               -------   --------------   ------------   ------------------   -------
<S>                                     <C>       <C>              <C>            <C>                  <C>
December 31, 2001:

Lloyd's Syndicate Number 1101.........  NR        United Kingdom     $40,913            $1,532         $39,381
Canada Life Assurance Company.........  A+        Canada              28,956                --          28,956
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 1206.........  C+        United Kingdom      27,251               351          26,900
AXA Corporate Solutions Reinsurance
  Co. ................................  A+        Delaware            26,582               680          25,902
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 2488.........  A-        United Kingdom      25,813             1,187          24,626
American Re-Insurance Company.........  A++       Delaware            24,674             1,697          22,977
SCOR Reinsurance Company..............  A         New York            21,883                --          21,883
American Fidelity Assurance Company...  A+        Oklahoma            19,881                12          19,869
Transatlantic Reinsurance Company.....  A++       New York            20,543               849          19,694
Federal Insurance Company.............  A++       Indiana             26,902             8,971          17,931
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 0957.........  NR        United Kingdom      17,653                --          17,653
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 0510.........  A-        United Kingdom      17,647             1,500          16,147
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 0055.........  NR        United Kingdom      16,168               305          15,863
</Table>

     Ratings for companies are published by A.M. Best Company, Inc. Ratings for
individual syndicates are published by Moody's Investors Services, Inc. "NR"
indicates that the indicated Lloyd's syndicate had not been rated. Lloyd's of
London is an insurance and reinsurance marketplace composed of many independent
underwriting syndicates financially supported by a central trust fund.

     HCC Life Insurance Company previously sold its entire block of life
insurance and annuity business to Life Reassurance Corporation of America (rated
A++ by A.M. Best Company, Inc.) in the form of an indemnity reinsurance
contract. Ceded life and annuity benefits amounted to $83.0 million as of
December 31, 2001.

     We have a reserve of $5.2 million as of December 31, 2001 for potential
collectibility issues related to reinsurance recoverables and associated
expenses. The adverse economic environment in the worldwide insurance industry
and the terrorist attacks on September 11 have placed great pressure on
reinsurers and the results of their operations. Ultimately, these conditions
could affect reinsurers' solvency. Historically, there have been insolvencies
following a period of competitive pricing in the industry, such as the
marketplace has experienced for the last several years. While we believe that
the reserve is adequate based on currently available information, conditions may
change or additional information might be obtained that would affect our
estimate of the adequacy of the level of the reserve and which may result in a
future change in the reserve. We continually review our financial exposure to
the reinsurance market and continue to take actions to mitigate our position.

     A number of reinsurers have delayed or suspended the payment of amounts
recoverable under certain reinsurance contracts to which we are a party. Such
delays have affected, although not materially to date, the investment income of
our insurance companies, but not to any extent their liquidity. We limit our
liquidity exposure by holding funds, letters of credit or other security such
that net balances due are significantly less than the gross balances shown in
our consolidated balance sheets. In some instances, the reinsurers have withheld
payment without reference to a substantive basis for the delay or suspension. In
other cases, the reinsurers have claimed they are not liable to for payment to
us of all or part of the amounts due under the applicable reinsurance agreement.
We believe these claims are without merit and expect to collect the full amounts
recoverable. We are currently in negotiations with most of these parties, but if
such negotiations do not result in a satisfactory resolution of the matters in
question, we may seek or be involved in a judicial or

                                        18
<PAGE>

arbitral determination of these matters. In some cases, the final resolution of
such disputes through arbitration or litigation may extend over several years.

     In this regard, as of December 31, 2001, our insurance companies had
initiated litigation or arbitration proceedings against five reinsurers and were
involved in one arbitration proceeding initiated by a reinsurer. These
proceedings primarily concern the collection of amounts owing under reinsurance
agreements. As of such date, our insurance companies had an aggregate amount of
$15.3 million which had not been paid to us under the disputed agreements and we
estimate that there could be an additional $31.2 million of incurred losses and
loss expenses under the subject agreements. In addition, because our insurance
companies, principally Houston Casualty Company, participated in facilities
which were managed by one of our underwriting agencies, they are indirectly
involved in any reinsurance disputes which affect the applicable facilities. As
of December 31, 2001, Houston Casualty Company's allocated portion of aggregate
amounts which had not been reimbursed to the applicable facilities under the
disputed agreements was $4.8 million and we estimate that there could be an
additional $4.0 million of incurred losses and loss expenses under the subject
agreements allocated to Houston Casualty Company. Houston Casualty Company has
no net exposure on disputed amounts due to the non-affiliated companies who also
participated in the applicable facilities.

     During 1999, we recorded a provision for reinsurance totaling $29.5 million
in connection with the insolvency of a reinsurer. We continue to expect this
provision to be sufficient. We also recorded a $14.0 million provision following
a commutation (the contractual settlement of outstanding and future liabilities)
with another reinsurer, the majority of which represents the present value
discount of ceded losses.

OPERATING RATIOS

  PREMIUM TO SURPLUS RATIO

     This table shows, for the years indicated, the ratio of statutory gross
written premium and net written premium to statutory policyholders' surplus for
our property and casualty insurance companies (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                    2001        2000       1999       1998       1997
                                 ----------   --------   --------   --------   --------
<S>                              <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Gross written premium..........  $1,014,833   $972,154   $576,184   $500,962   $346,094
Net written premium............     371,409    283,947    150,261    123,315    143,068
Policyholders' surplus.........     401,393    326,249    315,474    369,401    331,922

Gross written premium ratio....       252.8%     298.0%     182.6%     135.6%     104.3%
Gross written premium industry
  average(1)...................      *           174.1%     154.1%     147.9%     154.7%

Net written premium ratio......        92.5%      87.0%      47.6%      33.4%      43.1%
Net written premium industry
  average(1)...................      *            94.4%      85.5%      84.3%      89.7%
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Source: A.M. Best Company, Inc.

 *  Not available

     While there is no statutory requirement regarding a permissible premium to
policyholders' surplus ratio, guidelines established by the National Association
of Insurance Commissioners provide that a property and casualty insurer's annual
statutory gross written premium should not exceed 900% and net written premium
should not exceed 300% of its policyholders' surplus. However, industry
standards and rating agency criteria place these ratios at 300% and 200%,
respectively. In the past, our property and casualty insurance companies have
maintained premium to surplus ratios generally lower than such guidelines and
below industry norms. The gross written premium ratio increased during 2000 with
the acquisition of The Centris Group, Inc.'s book of medical stop-loss business
in December, 1999 and the increasing use of our insurance companies as the
issuing company for business written by our underwriting agencies. This ratio is
expected to slowly decrease

                                        19
<PAGE>

from its current level as statutory policyholders' surplus increases due to the
retention of earnings and other increases in policyholders' surplus.

  COMBINED RATIO IN ACCORDANCE WITH GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES

     The underwriting experience of a property and casualty insurance company is
indicated by its combined ratio. Under generally accepted accounting principles,
the combined ratio is a combination of the loss ratio in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, or the ratio of incurred losses and
loss adjustment expenses to net earned premium, and the expense ratio in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which is the ratio of
policy acquisition costs and other underwriting expenses, net of ceding
commissions, to net earned premium. Our insurance companies' loss ratios,
expense ratios and combined ratios in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles are shown in the following table for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                    2001    2000   1999    1998   1997
                                                    -----   ----   -----   ----   ----
<S>                                                 <C>     <C>    <C>     <C>    <C>
Loss ratio........................................   78.0%  74.2%   77.6%  63.8%  59.4%
Expense ratio.....................................   25.7   21.0    51.7   21.5   22.0
                                                    -----   ----   -----   ----   ----
Combined ratio....................................  103.7%  95.2%  129.3%  85.3%  81.4%
                                                    =====   ====   =====   ====   ====
Combined ratio excluding the effects of the
  provision for reinsurance in 1999...............                  98.6%
                                                                   =====
</Table>

  COMBINED RATIO IN ACCORDANCE WITH STATUTORY ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES

     The combined ratio in accordance with statutory accounting principles is a
combination of the loss ratio in accordance with statutory accounting
principles, or the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses to net
earned premium, and the expense ratio in accordance with statutory accounting
principles, which is the ratio of policy acquisition costs and other
underwriting expenses, net of ceding commissions, to net written premium. Our
insurance companies' loss ratios, expense ratios and combined ratios in
accordance with statutory accounting principles are shown in the following table
for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                 2001    2000    1999    1998    1997
                                                 -----   -----   -----   -----   -----
<S>                                              <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>
Loss ratio.....................................   78.0%   71.1%  107.1%   67.2%   61.6%
Expense ratio..................................   23.8    27.0    22.8    15.7    17.2
                                                 -----   -----   -----   -----   -----
Combined ratio.................................  101.8%   98.1%  129.9%   82.9%   78.8%
                                                 =====   =====   =====   =====   =====
Combined ratio excluding the effects of the
  provision for reinsurance in 1999............                  104.1%
                                                                 =====
Industry average(1)............................    *     110.1%  107.8%  105.6%  101.6%
</Table>

- ---------------

 *  Not available

     The ratio data in accordance with statutory accounting principles is not
intended to be a substitute for results of operations in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. The differences between statutory
accounting principles and generally accepted accounting principles are described
in Note (15) of our consolidated financial statements included in this report.
Including this information on the basis of statutory accounting principles is
meaningful and useful to allow a comparison of our operating results with those
of other companies in the insurance industry. The source of the industry average
is A.M. Best Company Inc. A.M. Best Company Inc. reports on insurer performance
on the basis of statutory accounting principles to provide for more standardized
comparisons among individual companies, as well as overall industry performance.

                                        20
<PAGE>

RESERVES

     Applicable insurance laws require us to maintain reserves to cover our
estimated ultimate liability for reported and incurred but not reported losses
under insurance and reinsurance policies that we wrote and for loss adjustment
expenses relating to the investigation and settlement of policy claims. In most
cases, we estimate such losses and claims costs through an evaluation of
individual claims. However, for some types of claims, we use an average
reserving method until more information becomes available to permit an
evaluation of individual claims.

     We establish loss reserves for individual claims by evaluating reported
claims on the basis of:

     - jurisdiction of the occurrence;

     - our experience with the insured and the line of business and policy
       provisions relating to the particular type of claim;

     - our knowledge of the circumstances surrounding the claim;

     - the information and reports received from ceding insurance companies
       where applicable;

     - the potential for ultimate exposure;

     - the severity of injury or damage; and

     - the type of loss.

     We establish loss reserves for incurred but not reported losses based in
part on statistical information and in part on industry experience with respect
to the probable number and nature of claims arising from occurrences that have
not been reported. We also establish our reserves based on predictions of future
events, our estimates of future trends in claims severity, and other subjective
factors. Insurance companies are not permitted to reserve for a catastrophe
until it has occurred. Reserves are recorded on an undiscounted basis, except
for an immaterial amount of reserves acquired in a transaction recorded using
the purchase method of accounting. The net reserves of each of our insurance
companies are established in conjunction with and reviewed by our in-house
actuarial staff, and our reserves in accordance with statutory accounting
principles are certified annually by our independent actuaries.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP certified the reserves of our insurance companies in
accordance with statutory accounting principles as of December 31, 2001.

     With respect to some classes of risks, the period of time between the
occurrence of an insured event and the final settlement of a claim may be many
years, and during this period it often becomes necessary to adjust the claim
estimates either upward or downward. Certain classes of marine and offshore
energy and workers' compensation insurance which are or were underwritten by our
insurance companies have historically had longer lead times between the
occurrence of an insured event, reporting of the claim, and final settlement. In
such cases, we are forced to estimate reserves over long periods of time with
the possibility of several adjustments to reserves. Other classes of insurance
that we underwrite, such as most aviation, property and medical stop-loss,
historically have shorter lead times between the occurrence of an insured event,
reporting of the claim and final settlement. Reserves with respect to these
classes are, therefore, less likely to be adjusted. The majority of the risks
currently underwritten by our insurance companies tend to have shorter lead
times.

     The reserving process is intended to reflect the impact of inflation and
other factors affecting loss payments by taking into account changes in
historical payment patterns and perceived trends. However, there is no precise
method for the subsequent evaluation of the adequacy of the consideration given
to inflation, or to any other specific factor, or to the way one factor may
impact another.

     We underwrite, directly and through reinsurance, risks which are
denominated in a number of foreign currencies, and therefore maintain loss
reserves with respect to these policies in the respective currencies. These
reserves are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, which may have an effect on
our earnings. We may attempt to limit our exposure to future currency
fluctuations through the use of foreign currency forward contracts.

                                        21
<PAGE>

     The loss development triangles below show changes in our GAAP reserves in
subsequent years from the prior loss estimates based on experience as of the end
of each succeeding year on the basis of generally accepted accounting
principles. The estimate is increased or decreased as more information becomes
known about the frequency and severity of losses for individual years. A
redundancy means the original estimate was higher than the current estimate; a
deficiency means that the current estimate is higher than the original estimate.

     The first line of each loss development triangle presents, for the years
indicated, our gross or net reserve liability including the reserve for incurred
but not reported losses. The first section of each table shows, by year, the
cumulative amounts of loss and loss adjustment expense paid as of the end of
each succeeding year. The second section sets forth the re-estimates in later
years of incurred losses, including payments, for the years indicated. The
"cumulative redundancy (deficiency)" represents, as of the date indicated, the
difference between the latest re-estimated liability and the reserves as
originally estimated.

     This loss development triangle shows development in loss reserves on a
gross basis (in thousands):
<Table>
<Caption>
                                  2001        2000       1999       1998       1997       1996       1995       1994       1993
                               ----------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
<S>                            <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Balance sheet reserves:......  $1,130,748   $944,117   $871,104   $460,511   $275,008   $229,049   $200,756   $170,957   $144,178
Reserve adjustments from
  acquisition and disposition
  of subsidiaries............          --    (66,571)   (32,437)      (136)        --         --         --         --         --
                               ----------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
    Adjusted reserves........   1,130,748    877,546    838,667    460,375    275,008    229,049    200,756    170,957    144,178
Cumulative paid as of:
  One year later.............                400,279    424,379    229,746    160,324    119,453    118,656     97,580     82,538
  Two years later............                           561,246    367,512    209,724    179,117    167,459    143,114    126,290
  Three years later..........                                      419,209    241,523    193,872    207,191    166,541    157,509
  Four years later...........                                                 259,067    212,097    214,046    192,540    176,472
  Five years later...........                                                            223,701    226,762    195,930    195,269
  Six years later............                                                                       233,831    202,844    197,147
  Seven years later..........                                                                                  208,112    203,075
  Eight years later..........                                                                                             207,474
  Nine years later...........
Re-estimated liability as of:
  End of year................   1,130,748    877,546    838,667    460,375    275,008    229,049    200,756    170,957    144,178
  One year later.............                922,080    836,775    550,409    308,501    252,236    243,259    186,898    163,967
  Two years later............                           868,438    545,955    316,250    249,013    248,372    207,511    183,015
  Three years later..........                                      547,179    304,281    250,817    247,053    214,738    203,137
  Four years later...........                                                 305,022    247,245    248,687    220,695    211,546
  Five years later...........                                                            249,853    248,559    217,892    218,182
  Six years later............                                                                       250,176    219,196    214,498
  Seven years later..........                                                                                  219,002    216,820
  Eight years later..........                                                                                             216,627
  Nine years later...........
Cumulative redundancy
  (deficiency)...............               $(44,534)  $(29,771)  $(86,804)  $(30,014)  $(20,804)  $(49,420)  $(48,045)  $(72,449)

<Caption>
                                 1992
                               ---------
<S>                            <C>
Balance sheet reserves:......  $ 129,503
Reserve adjustments from
  acquisition and disposition
  of subsidiaries............         --
                               ---------
    Adjusted reserves........    129,503
Cumulative paid as of:
  One year later.............     83,574
  Two years later............    130,379
  Three years later..........    158,973
  Four years later...........    182,193
  Five years later...........    192,512
  Six years later............    213,052
  Seven years later..........    215,280
  Eight years later..........    221,403
  Nine years later...........    225,706
Re-estimated liability as of:
  End of year................    129,503
  One year later.............    162,827
  Two years later............    176,817
  Three years later..........    194,419
  Four years later...........    215,531
  Five years later...........    222,746
  Six years later............    234,115
  Seven years later..........    231,269
  Eight years later..........    233,995
  Nine years later...........    233,865
Cumulative redundancy
  (deficiency)...............  $(104,362)
</Table>

     The gross deficiencies reflected in the table for 2000 and 1999 result from
late reported loss information received during 2001. These losses primarily came
from assumed reinsurance business written by one of our insurance companies.
However, as these policies were substantially reinsured, there was no material
effect to our net earnings.

                                        22
<PAGE>

     The gross deficiencies reflected in the table for the years prior to 1999
result from three principal conditions:

     - The development of large claims on individual policies which were either
       reported late or for which reserves were increased as subsequent
       information became available. However, as these policies were
       substantially reinsured, there was no material effect to our net
       earnings.

     - During 1999, in connection with the insolvency of one of our reinsurers
       and the commutation of all liabilities with another, we re-evaluated all
       loss reserves and incurred but not reported loss reserves related to
       business placed with these reinsurers to determine the ultimate losses we
       might conservatively expect. These reserves were then used as the basis
       for the determination of the provision for reinsurance recorded in 1999.

     - For the years prior to 1997, the runoff of the retrocessional excess of
       loss business, which we underwrote between 1988 and 1991, experienced
       gross development. This development was due primarily to the delay in
       reporting of losses by the London insurance market, coupled with the
       unprecedented number of catastrophe losses during that period. This
       business was substantially reinsured and there was no material effect to
       our net earnings.

                                        23
<PAGE>

     This loss development triangle shows development in loss reserves on a net
basis (in thousands):
<Table>
<Caption>
                                    2001        2000       1999       1998       1997       1996       1995       1994       1993
                                 ----------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
<S>                              <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Gross reserves.................  $1,130,748   $944,117   $871,104   $460,511   $275,008   $229,049   $200,756   $170,957   $144,178
Less reinsurance
  recoverables.................     817,651    694,245    597,498    341,599    155,374    111,766    101,497     95,279     82,289
                                 ----------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
    Reserves, net of
      reinsurance..............     313,097    249,872    273,606    118,912    119,634    117,283     99,259     75,678     61,889
Reserve adjustments from
  acquisition and disposition
  of subsidiaries..............          --     (6,048)    (3,343)      (410)        --         --         --         --         --
Effect on loss reserves of 1999
  write off of reinsurance
  recoverables.................          --         --         --     63,851     15,008      2,636      1,442         51         --
                                 ----------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
    Adjusted reserves, net of
      reinsurance..............     313,097    243,824    270,263    182,353    134,642    119,919    100,701     75,729     61,889
Cumulative paid, net of
  reinsurance, as of:
  One year later...............                102,244    145,993     56,052     48,775     47,874     41,947     36,500     29,258
  Two years later..............                           174,534    103,580     64,213     66,030     56,803     49,283     41,207
  Three years later............                                      113,762     80,227     72,863     64,798     56,919     46,576
  Four years later.............                                                  81,845     81,620     67,355     60,441     51,536
  Five years later.............                                                             81,968     72,627     61,781     53,110
  Six years later..............                                                                        73,501     66,591     53,879
  Seven years later............                                                                                   64,410     58,353
  Eight years later............                                                                                              58,713
  Nine years later.............
  Ten years later..............
Re-estimated liability, net of
  reinsurance, as of:
  End of year..................     313,097    243,824    270,263    182,353    134,642    119,919    100,701     75,729     61,889
  One year later...............                233,111    260,678    186,967    120,049    116,145     95,764     72,963     59,659
  Two years later..............                           254,373    175,339    116,745    101,595     94,992     74,887     60,079
  Three years later............                                      171,165    110,673     97,353     85,484     76,474     62,224
  Four years later.............                                                 107,138     95,118     80,890     73,660     64,377
  Five years later.............                                                             93,528     79,626     69,528     64,103
  Six years later..............                                                                        79,968     70,642     59,408
  Seven years later............                                                                                   70,278     60,960
  Eight years later............                                                                                              60,729
  Nine years later.............
  Ten years later..............
Cumulative redundancy
  (deficiency).................               $ 10,713   $ 15,890   $ 11,188   $ 27,504   $ 26,391   $ 20,733   $  5,451   $  1,160

<Caption>
                                   1992       1991
                                 --------   --------
<S>                              <C>        <C>
Gross reserves.................  $129,503   $123,248
Less reinsurance
  recoverables.................    81,075     83,727
                                 --------   --------
    Reserves, net of
      reinsurance..............    48,428     39,521
Reserve adjustments from
  acquisition and disposition
  of subsidiaries..............        --         --
Effect on loss reserves of 1999
  write off of reinsurance
  recoverables.................        --         --
                                 --------   --------
    Adjusted reserves, net of
      reinsurance..............    48,428     39,521
Cumulative paid, net of
  reinsurance, as of:
  One year later...............    18,978     18,416
  Two years later..............    32,733     23,057
  Three years later............    36,536     31,903
  Four years later.............    38,480     33,875
  Five years later.............    40,327     34,970
  Six years later..............    40,550     36,203
  Seven years later............    41,133     35,413
  Eight years later............    45,552     35,960
  Nine years later.............    45,837     39,770
  Ten years later..............               39,976
Re-estimated liability, net of
  reinsurance, as of:
  End of year..................    48,428     39,521
  One year later...............    45,812     38,575
  Two years later..............    44,964     38,656
  Three years later............    46,129     39,176
  Four years later.............    48,993     40,407
  Five years later.............    50,785     43,418
  Six years later..............    50,585     45,142
  Seven years later............    46,071     43,924
  Eight years later............    47,629     39,858
  Nine years later.............    47,407     41,513
  Ten years later..............               41,368
Cumulative redundancy
  (deficiency).................  $  1,021   $ (1,847)
</Table>

     We believe that our loss reserves are adequate to provide for all material
net incurred losses.

                                        24
<PAGE>

     The following table provides a reconciliation of the gross liability of
loss and loss adjustment expenses on the basis of generally accepted accounting
principles for the three years ended December 31, 2001 (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2001        2000       1999
                                                            ----------   --------   --------
<S>                                                         <C>          <C>        <C>
Reserves for loss and loss adjustment expense at beginning
  of year.................................................  $  944,117   $871,104   $460,511
Reserve adjustments from acquisition and disposition of
  subsidiaries............................................     (69,725)     1,709    146,233
Provision for loss and loss adjustment expense for claims
  occurring In the current year...........................   1,019,311    775,538    595,425
Increase (decrease) in estimated loss and loss adjustment
  expense for claims occurring in prior years (1).........      44,534     (1,892)    90,034
                                                            ----------   --------   --------
Incurred loss and loss adjustment expense.................   1,063,845    773,646    685,459
                                                            ----------   --------   --------
Loss and loss adjustment expense payments for claims
  occurring during:
  Current year............................................     407,210    277,963    191,353
  Prior years.............................................     400,279    424,379    229,746
                                                            ----------   --------   --------
Loss and loss adjustment expense payments.................     807,489    702,342    421,099
                                                            ----------   --------   --------
Reserves for loss and loss adjustment expense at end of
  the year................................................  $1,130,748   $944,117   $871,104
                                                            ==========   ========   ========
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Changes in loss and loss adjustment expense reserves (on the basis of
    generally accepted accounting principles) for losses occurring in prior
    years reflect the gross effect of the resolution of losses for other than
    the reserve value and the subsequent adjustments of loss reserves.

     This table provides a reconciliation of the liability for loss and loss
adjustment expense, net of reinsurance ceded, on the basis of generally accepted
accounting principles for the three years ended December 31, 2001 (in
thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2001       2000       1999
                                                             --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                          <C>        <C>        <C>
Reserves for loss and loss adjustment expense at beginning
  of year..................................................  $249,872   $273,606   $118,912
Reserve adjustments from acquisition and disposition of
  subsidiaries.............................................       285        514     55,523
Effect on loss reserves of write off of ceded outstanding
  and incurred but not reported reinsurance recoverables...        --         --     82,343
Provision for loss and loss adjustment expense for claims
  occurring in the current year............................   278,103    208,055    105,036
Increase (decrease) in estimated loss and loss adjustment
  expense for claims occurring in prior years (2)..........   (10,713)    (9,585)     4,614
                                                             --------   --------   --------
Incurred loss and loss adjustment expense..................   267,390    198,470    109,650
                                                             --------   --------   --------
Loss and loss adjustment expense payments for claims
  occurring during:
  Current year.............................................   102,206     76,725     36,770
  Prior years..............................................   102,244    145,993     56,052
                                                             --------   --------   --------
Loss and loss adjustment expense payments..................   204,450    222,718     92,822
                                                             --------   --------   --------
Reserves for loss and loss adjustment expense at end of the
  year.....................................................  $313,097   $249,872   $273,606
                                                             ========   ========   ========
</Table>

- ---------------

(2) Changes in loss and loss adjustment expense reserves (on the basis of
    generally accepted accounting principles) for losses occurring in prior
    years reflect the net effect of the resolution of losses for other than the
    reserve value and the subsequent adjustments of loss reserves.

     Although we experienced gross loss deficiencies during 2001 and 1999, the
business was substantially reinsured and, therefore, there was no material
effect to our insurance companies on a net loss basis.

                                        25
<PAGE>

     During 2001, we had net loss and loss adjustment expense redundancy of
$10.7 million relating to prior year losses compared to a redundancy of $9.6
million in 2000 and a deficiency of $4.6 million in 1999. The deficiencies and
redundancies in the net reserves result from our continued review with our
actuaries of our loss reserves and the increase or reduction of reserves as
losses are finally settled and claims exposures are reduced. We believe we have
provided for all material net incurred losses.

     We have no material exposure to environmental pollution losses, because
Houston Casualty Company only began writing business in 1981 and its policies
normally contain pollution exclusion clauses which limit pollution coverage to
"sudden and accidental" losses only, thus excluding intentional (dumping) and
seepage claims. Policies issued by HCC Life Insurance Company, Avemco Insurance
Company and U.S. Specialty Insurance Company, because of the types of risks
covered, are not considered to have significant environmental exposures. We do
not expect to experience any material development in reserves for environmental
pollution claims.

INVESTMENTS

     Insurance company investments must comply with applicable regulations which
prescribe the type, quality and concentration of investments. These regulations
permit investments, within specified limits and subject to certain
qualifications, in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds,
and preferred and common equity securities. As of December 31, 2001, we had
$888.5 million of investment assets. The majority of our investment assets are
held by our insurance companies. All of our securities are classified as
available for sale and are recorded at market value.

     Our investment policy is determined by our Board of Directors and our
Investment and Finance Committee and is reviewed on a regular basis. We continue
to engage a nationally prominent investment advisor, New England Asset
Management, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., to oversee our investments
and to make recommendations to our Board's Investment and Finance Committee.
Although we generally intend to hold fixed income securities to maturity, we
regularly re-evaluate our position based upon market conditions. As of December
31, 2001, our fixed income securities have a weighted average maturity of five
years and a weighted average duration of four years. Our financial statements
reflect an unrealized gain on fixed income securities available for sale as of
December 31, 2001, of $11.8 million.

     We have maintained a substantial level of cash and liquid short-term
instruments in our insurance companies in order to maintain the ability to fund
losses of our insureds. Our underwriting agencies and intermediaries typically
have short-term investments, which are fiduciary funds held on behalf of others.
As of December 31, 2001, we had cash and short-term investments of approximately
$355.8 million, of which $220.6 million were in our agencies and intermediaries.

     This table shows a profile of our investments. The table shows the average
amount of investments, income earned, and the yield thereon for the periods
indicated (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         2001       2000       1999
                                                       --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                    <C>        <C>        <C>
Average investments, at cost.........................  $789,860   $643,721   $545,876
Net investment income(1).............................    39,638     39,836     30,946
Average short-term yield(1)..........................       4.3%       6.6%       5.6%
Average long-term yield(1)...........................       5.6%       6.1%       5.6%
Average long-term tax equivalent yield(1)............       6.4%       7.4%       7.5%
Weighted average combined tax equivalent yield(1)....       5.6%       7.1%       7.1%
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Excluding realized and unrealized capital gains and losses.

                                        26
<PAGE>

     This table summarizes, by type, the estimated market value of our
investments as of December 31, 2001 (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               AMOUNT    PERCENT OF TOTAL
                                                              --------   ----------------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Short-term investments......................................  $338,904          38%
U.S. Treasury securities....................................    71,368           8
Obligations of states, municipalities and political
  subdivisions..............................................    53,918           6
Special revenue fixed income securities.....................   151,740          17
Corporate fixed income securities...........................   145,285          16
Structured securities.......................................    98,628          11
Foreign government securities...............................     4,489           1
Marketable equity securities................................    16,569           2
Other investments...........................................     7,565           1
                                                              --------         ---
          TOTAL INVESTMENTS.................................  $888,466         100%
                                                              ========         ===
</Table>

     This table summarizes, by rating, the market value of our investments in
fixed income securities as of December 31, 2001 (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               AMOUNT    PERCENT OF TOTAL
                                                              --------   ----------------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
AAA.........................................................  $258,724          49%
AA..........................................................    93,773          17
A...........................................................   162,241          31
BBB.........................................................    10,500           2
C...........................................................       190           1
                                                              --------         ---
          TOTAL FIXED INCOME SECURITIES.....................  $525,428         100%
                                                              ========         ===
</Table>

     The table set forth below indicates the expected maturity distribution of
the estimated market value of our fixed income securities as of December 31,
2001 (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               AMOUNT    PERCENT OF TOTAL
                                                              --------   ----------------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
One year or less............................................  $ 18,416           3%
One year to five years......................................   194,022          37
Five years to ten years.....................................    94,184          18
Ten years to fifteen years..................................    76,721          15
More than fifteen years.....................................    43,457           8
                                                              --------         ---
  Securities with fixed maturities..........................   426,800          81
Asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities.................    98,628          19
                                                              --------         ---
          TOTAL FIXED INCOME SECURITIES.....................  $525,428         100%
                                                              ========         ===
</Table>

     The weighted average life of our structured securities is five years. The
value of our portfolio of fixed income securities is inversely correlated to
changes in market interest rates. In addition, some of our fixed income
securities have call or prepayment options. This could subject us to a
reinvestment risk should interest rates fall or issuers call their securities
and we are forced to invest the proceeds at lower interest rates. We mitigate
this risk by investing in securities with varied maturity dates, so that only a
portion of the portfolio will mature at any point in time. Some of our
asset-backed securities are subject to re-evaluation and additional specialized
impairment tests. Under this guidance, these securities have to be written down
in value if certain tests are met. Any write down is recouped prospectively
through net investment income. The total amount of securities held by us as of
December 31, 2001 that would be subject to these tests and potential write downs
is immaterial.

                                        27
<PAGE>

2% CONVERTIBLE NOTES AND BANK LOAN

     On August 23, 2001, we issued an aggregate $172.5 million principal amount
of 2% Convertible Notes due 2021 in a public offering. Each $1,000 principal
amount of notes is convertible into 31.25 shares of our common stock, which
represents an initial conversion price of $32.00 per share. The initial
conversion price is subject to change under certain conditions. Interest is to
be paid by us on March 1 and September 1 each year. Holders may surrender notes
for conversion into shares of our common stock in any calendar quarter if, as of
the last day of the preceding calendar quarter, the closing sale price of our
common stock for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive
trading days ending on the last trading day of the quarter is more than 120%
(currently $38.40 per share) of the conversion price per share of our common
stock on the last trading day of the quarter. We can redeem the notes for cash
at any time on or after September 1, 2006. Holders of the notes may require us
to repurchase the notes on September 1, 2002, 2004, 2006, 2008, 2011 and 2016.
If the holders exercise this option, we may choose to pay the purchase price in
cash, in shares of our common stock, or a combination thereof. We used the
proceeds from this offering to repay our remaining indebtedness under the bank
facility described below, assist in financing the recent acquisitions, make a
$60.0 million capital contribution to our principal insurance company subsidiary
and for general corporate purposes.

     On December 17, 1999, we entered into a $300.0 million Revolving Loan
Facility with a group of banks. At our request, the amount available under the
facility was reduced to $200.0 million by an amendment on June 6, 2001. Interest
expense for 2001 includes a charge of $0.6 million related to the write off of
prepaid loan fees in connection with the amendment. We can borrow up to the
maximum allowed by the facility on a revolving basis until the facility expires
on December 17, 2004. Outstanding advances under the facility bear interest at
agreed upon rates, which ranged between 2.6% and 3.1% at December 31, 2001. The
facility is collateralized in part by the pledge of the stock of two of our
principal insurance companies, Houston Casualty Company and Avemco Insurance
Company, and by the stock of and guarantees entered into by our principal
underwriting agencies and intermediaries. The facility agreement contains
certain restrictive covenants, including minimum net worth requirements for us
and certain of our subsidiaries, restrictions on certain extraordinary corporate
actions, notice requirements for certain material occurrences and required
maintenance of specified financial ratios. We believe that the restrictive
covenants and our obligations that are contained in the facility agreement are
typical for financing arrangements comparable to our facility. As of December
31, 2001, there was no outstanding balance on this facility.

REGULATION

     The business of insurance is extensively regulated by the government. At
this time, the insurance business in the United States is regulated primarily by
the individual states. However, a form of federal financial services
modernization legislation enacted in 1999 is expected to result in additional
federal regulation of the insurance industry. In addition, some insurance
industry trade groups are actively lobbying for legislation that would allow an
option for a separate federal charter for insurance companies. The full extent
to which the federal government will determine to directly regulate the business
of insurance has not been determined by lawmakers. Also, various foreign
governments regulate our international operations.

     Our business depends on our compliance with applicable laws and regulations
and our ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for our operations. We
devote a significant effort toward obtaining and maintaining our licenses and
compliance with a diverse and complex regulatory structure. In all
jurisdictions, the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or
interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, regulatory authorities are
vested with broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals
and to implement regulations governing the business and operations of insurers
and insurance agents.

  Insurance Companies

     Our insurance companies, in common with other insurers, are subject to
regulation and supervision by the states and by other jurisdictions in which
they do business. Regulation by the states varies, but generally

                                        28
<PAGE>

involves regulatory and supervisory powers of a state insurance official. The
regulation and supervision of our insurance operations relates primarily to:

     - approval of policy forms and premium rates;

     - licensing of insurers and their agents;

     - periodic examinations of our operations and finances;

     - prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition
       required to be filed;

     - requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders;

     - requiring certain methods of accounting;

     - requiring reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes;

     - restrictions on the ability of our insurance companies to pay dividends
       to us;

     - restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments;

     - restrictions on transactions between insurance companies and their
       affiliates;

     - restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; and

     - standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements (which
       is a measure developed by the National Association of Insurance
       Commissioners and used by state insurance regulators to identify
       insurance companies that potentially are inadequately capitalized.)

     In general, state insurance regulations are intended primarily for the
protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. The state insurance
departments monitor compliance with regulations through periodic reporting
procedures and examinations. The quarterly and annual financial reports to the
state insurance regulators utilize accounting principles which are different
from the generally accepted accounting principles we use in our reports to
shareholders. Statutory accounting principles, in keeping with the intent to
assure the protection of policyholders, are generally based on a liquidation
concept while generally accepted accounting principles are based on a
going-concern concept.

     Houston Casualty Company is domiciled in Texas. It operates on an admitted
basis in Texas and may write reinsurance on all lines of business that it may
write on a direct basis. Houston Casualty Company is an accredited reinsurer in
35 states and an approved surplus lines insurer or is otherwise permitted to
write surplus lines insurance in 47 states, three United States territories and
the District of Columbia. When a reinsurer obtains accreditation from a
particular state, insurers within that state are permitted to obtain statutory
credit for risks ceded to the reinsurer. Surplus lines insurance is offered by
non-admitted companies on risks which are not insured by admitted companies. All
surplus lines insurance is required to be written through licensed surplus lines
insurance brokers, who are required to be knowledgeable of and follow specific
state laws prior to placing a risk with a surplus lines insurer.

     Houston Casualty Company's branch office in London, England is subject to
regulation by regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom. Avemco Insurance
Company is domiciled in Maryland and operates as a licensed admitted insurer in
all states, the District of Columbia, and all Canadian provinces except Quebec.
U.S. Specialty Insurance Company is domiciled in Texas and operates as a
licensed admitted insurer in all states and the District of Columbia. HCC Life
Insurance Company is domiciled in Indiana, and operates as a licensed admitted
insurer in 41 states and the District of Columbia.

     State insurance regulations also affect the payment of dividends and other
distributions by insurance companies to their shareholders. Generally, insurance
companies are limited by these regulations to the payment of dividends above a
specified level. Dividends in excess of those thresholds are "extraordinary
dividends" and subject to prior regulatory approval.

                                        29
<PAGE>

  Underwriting Agencies and Intermediaries

     In addition to the regulation of insurance companies, the states impose
licensing and other requirements on the insurance agency and service operations
of our other subsidiaries. These regulations relate primarily to:

     - advertising and business practice rules;

     - contractual requirements;

     - financial security;

     - licensing as agents, brokers, intermediaries, managing general agents or
       third party administrators;

     - limitations on authority; and

     - recordkeeping requirements.

     The manner of operating our underwriting agency and intermediary activities
in particular states may vary according to the licensing requirements of the
particular state, which may require, among other things, that we operate in the
state through a local corporation. In a few states, licenses are issued only to
individual residents or locally-owned business entities. In such cases, we may
have arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in the
state. The majority of states, however, have recently enacted legislation in
response to the Federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act that streamlines and makes more
uniform the licensing requirements.

  Statutory Accounting Principles

     The principal differences between statutory accounting principles and
generally accepted accounting principles, the method by which we report our
financial results to our shareholders are:

     - a liability is recorded for certain reinsurance recoverables under
       statutory accounting principles, whereas under generally accepted
       accounting principles there is no such provision unless the recoverables
       are deemed to be doubtful of collectibility;

     - under statutory accounting principles, life insurance companies record
       investment related liabilities, the asset valuation reserve and interest
       maintenance reserve, whereas there is not such liability under generally
       accepted accounting principles;

     - certain assets which are considered "non-admitted assets" are eliminated
       from a balance sheet prepared in accordance with statutory accounting
       principles but are included in a balance sheet prepared in accordance
       with generally accepted accounting principles;

     - only some of the deferred tax assets are recognized under statutory
       accounting principles;

     - fixed-income investments classified as available for sale are recorded at
       market value for generally accepted accounting principles and at
       amortized cost under statutory accounting principles;

     - outstanding losses and unearned premium are recorded on a gross basis
       under generally accepted accounting principles and on a net basis under
       statutory accounting principles; and

     - under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition costs are
       expensed as incurred and under generally accepted accounting principles
       such costs are deferred and amortized to expense as the related premium
       is earned.

     The National Association of Insurance Commissioners adopted Statements of
Statutory Accounting Principles in March, 1998, which became effective on
January 1, 2001, through their adoption by the individual states. The adoption
of these principles by the states is referred to as codification. The cumulative
effect of codification increased the statutory policyholders' surplus of our
insurance companies by approximately $8.9 million. Our use of statutory
accounting practices prescribed by state regulatory authorities caused a $3.2
million reduction in our insurance companies' aggregate statutory policyholders'
surplus compared to amounts that would have been recorded under the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners

                                        30
<PAGE>

codification rules. The statutory policyholders' surplus of each of our
insurance companies is significantly in excess of regulatory risk-based capital
requirements.

  Insurance Holding Company Acts

     Because we are an insurance holding company, we are subject to the
insurance holding company system regulatory requirements of the states of
Arkansas, Indiana, Maryland, and Texas. Under these regulations, we are required
to report information regarding our capital structure, financial condition and
management. We are also required to provide prior notice to, or seek the prior
approval of insurance regulatory authorities of certain agreements and
transactions between our affiliated companies. These agreements and transactions
must satisfy certain regulatory requirements.

  Risk-Based Capital

     The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has developed a formula
for analyzing insurance companies called risk-based capital. The risk-based
capital formula is intended to establish minimum capital thresholds that vary
with the size and mix of a company's business and assets. It is designed to
identify companies with capital levels that may require regulatory attention. As
of December 31, 2001, each of our domestic insurance companies' total adjusted
capital is significantly in excess of the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners authorized control level risk-based capital.

  Insurance Regulatory Information System

     The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has also developed a
rating system, the Insurance Regulatory Information System, primarily intended
to assist state insurance departments in overseeing the financial condition of
all insurance companies operating within their respective states. The Insurance
Regulatory Information System consists of eleven key financial ratios that
address various aspects of each insurer's financial condition and stability. Our
insurance companies' Insurance Regulatory Information System ratios generally
fall within the usual prescribed ranges except in satisfactorily explainable
circumstances such as when there is a large reinsurance transaction, capital
change, merger or planned growth.

  Pending or Proposed Legislation

     In recent years, state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that
modify and, in many cases, increase state authority to regulate insurance
companies and insurance holding company systems. State insurance regulators are
members of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which seeks to
promote uniformity of, and to enhance the state regulation of, insurance. In
addition, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and state
insurance regulators, as part of the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners' state insurance department accreditation program and in response
to new federal laws, have re-examined existing state laws and regulations,
specifically focusing on insurance company investments, issues relating to the
solvency of insurance companies, licensing and market conduct issues,
streamlining agent licensing and policy form approvals, adoption of privacy
rules for handling policyholder information, interpretations of existing laws,
the development of new laws, and the definition of extraordinary dividends.

     In recent years, a variety of measures have been proposed at the federal
level to reform the current process of federal and state regulation of the
financial services industries in the United States, which include the banking,
insurance and securities industries. These measures, which are often referred to
as financial services modernization, have as a principal objective the
elimination or modification of current regulatory barriers to cross-industry
combinations involving banks, securities firms and insurance companies. A form
of financial services modernization legislation was enacted at the federal level
in 1999 through the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. That federal legislation was
expected to have significant implications on the banking, insurance and
securities industries and to result in more cross-industry consolidations among
banks, insurance companies and securities firms and increased competition in
many of the areas of our operations. Such wide-spread cross-industry
consolidation has not occurred to date. It also mandated the adoption of laws
allowing reciprocity among the states in the licensing of agents and, along with
other federal laws, mandated the

                                        31
<PAGE>

adoption of laws and regulations dealing with the protection of the privacy of
policyholder information. Also, the federal government has conducted
investigations of the current condition of the insurance industry in the United
States to determine whether to impose overall federal regulation of insurers. In
the past several years there have been a number of recommendations that the
industry's anti-trust exemption be removed and the industry placed under federal
regulation. If so, we believe state regulation of the insurance business would
likely continue. This could result in an additional layer of federal regulation.

     We do not know at this time the full extent to which these federal or state
legislative or regulatory initiatives will or may affect our operations, and no
assurance can be given that they would not, if adopted, have a material adverse
effect on our business or its results of operations.

EMPLOYEES

     As of December 31, 2001, we had 997 employees. The employees include seven
executive officers, 18 senior management, 95 management and 877 other personnel.
Of this number, 366 are employed by our insurance companies, 389 are employed by
our underwriting agencies, 127 are employed by our intermediaries, and 115 are
employed at the corporate headquarters and elsewhere. We are not a party to any
collective bargaining agreement and have not experienced work stoppages or
strikes as a result of labor disputes. We consider our employee relations to be
good.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     Our principal and executive offices are located in Houston, Texas, in an
approximately 51,000 square foot building owned by Houston Casualty Company.
Houston Casualty Company also owns a 77,000 square foot building adjacent to its
home office building. We also maintain offices in over 20 locations elsewhere in
the United States and England. The majority of these additional locations are in
leased facilities.

     Besides our home office, our principal office facilities are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
SUBSIDIARY                                 LOCATION                  SQ. FT.   LEASE TERMINATION DATE
- ----------                                 --------                  -------   ----------------------
<S>                                        <C>                       <C>       <C>
Avemco Insurance Company                   Frederick, Maryland       40,000    Owned
U.S. Specialty Insurance Company Aviation
  Division                                 Dallas, Texas             40,000    March 31, 2004
Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc.        Mount Kisco, New York     38,000    Owned
Houston Casualty Company Accident and
  Health Division                          Wakefield, Massachusetts  28,000    October 31, 2006
HCC Benefits Corporation                   Costa Mesa, California    22,000    March 31, 2007
                                           Kennesaw, Georgia         21,000    January 31, 2006
HCC Employee Benefits, Inc.                Houston, Texas            20,000    August 31, 2006
Rattner Mackenzie Limited                  London, England           15,000    September 29, 2003
ASU International, LLC                     Woburn, Massachusetts     12,000    January 31, 2005
</Table>

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     In addition to the matters discussed in the Reinsurance Ceded section
contained in Item 1, Business, we are party to numerous lawsuits and other
proceedings that arise in the normal course of our business. Many of such
lawsuits and other proceedings involve claims under policies that we underwrite
as an insurer or reinsurer, the liabilities for which, we believe have been
adequately included in our loss reserves. Also, from time to time, we are a
party to lawsuits and other proceedings which relate to disputes over
contractual relationships with third parties, or which involve alleged errors
and omissions on the part of our subsidiaries. We believe the resolution of any
such lawsuits will not have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

                                        32
<PAGE>

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the
fourth quarter of 2001.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK

     Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker
symbol "HCC".

     The intra-day high and low sales prices for quarterly periods during the
period January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2001, as reported by the New York
Stock Exchange were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          2001              2000
                                                     ---------------   ---------------
                                                      HIGH     LOW      HIGH     LOW
                                                     ------   ------   ------   ------
<S>                                                  <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>
First quarter......................................  $26.88   $20.50   $15.00   $11.50
Second quarter.....................................   29.65    23.26    19.69    10.94
Third quarter......................................   26.67    21.21    22.94    18.69
Fourth quarter.....................................   29.20    25.15    27.19    17.63
</Table>

     On March 15 2002, the last reported sales price of our common stock as
reported by the New York Stock Exchange was $28.13 per share.

SHAREHOLDERS

     We have one class of authorized capital stock: 250.0 million shares of
common stock, par value $1.00 per share. As of March 15, 2002, there were 62.0
million shares of issued and outstanding common stock held by 954 shareholders
of record; however, we believe there are in excess of 15,000 beneficial owners.

DIVIDEND POLICY

     Beginning in June, 1996, we announced a planned quarterly program of paying
cash dividends to shareholders. We paid a cash dividend of $0.02 per share in
July, 1996 and in each succeeding quarter through the first quarter of 1997. We
have increased the quarterly cash dividend in each year and beginning in
September, 2001, our quarterly dividend was $0.0625 per share. Our Board of
Directors may review our dividend policy from time to time, and any
determination with respect to future dividends will be made in light of
regulatory and other conditions at that time, including our earnings, financial
condition, capital requirements, loan covenants, and other related factors.
Under the terms of our bank loan, we are prohibited from paying dividends in
excess of an agreed upon maximum amount in any fiscal year. That limitation
should not affect our ability to pay dividends in a manner consistent with our
past practice and current expectations.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The selected consolidated financial data set forth below has been derived
from the Consolidated Financial Statements. All information contained herein
should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements, the
related notes thereto and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Report.

                                        33
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)(1)
                                                        ----------------------------------------------------
                                                          2001       2000       1999       1998       1997
                                                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                     <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
STATEMENT OF EARNINGS DATA
Revenue
  Net earned premium..................................  $342,787   $267,647   $141,362   $143,100   $162,571
  Management fees.....................................    61,795     96,058     90,713     74,045     51,039
  Commission income...................................    43,412     49,886     58,233     40,804     25,375
  Net investment income...............................    39,638     39,836     30,946     29,342     27,588
  Net realized investment gain (loss).................       393     (5,321)    (4,164)       845       (328)
  Other operating income..............................    17,436     25,497     28,475     22,268     15,239
                                                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
         Total revenue................................   505,461    473,603    345,565    310,404    281,484
Expense
  Loss and loss adjustment expense, net...............   267,390    198,470    109,650     91,302     96,514
      Operating expense
      Policy acquisition costs, net...................    27,923     23,743      8,177     10,978     13,580
      Compensation expense............................    69,762     83,086     79,196     57,227     51,994
      Provision for reinsurance.......................        --         --     43,462         --         --
      Other operating expense.........................    71,119     53,274     53,273     36,451     31,935
      Merger expense..................................        --         --         --        107      8,069
                                                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
         Total operating expense......................   168,804    160,103    184,108    104,763    105,578
  Interest expense....................................     8,884     20,347     12,964      6,021      6,004
                                                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
         Total expense................................   445,078    378,920    306,722    202,086    208,096
                                                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
         Earnings before income tax provision.........    60,383     94,683     38,843    108,318     73,388
  Income tax provision................................    30,186     37,202     12,271     35,208     23,305
                                                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
         Net earnings before accounting change........    30,197     57,481     26,572     73,110     50,083
Cumulative effect of accounting change(2).............        --     (2,013)        --         --         --
                                                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
         Net earnings.................................  $ 30,197   $ 55,468   $ 26,572   $ 73,110   $ 50,083
                                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE DATA:
    Earnings before accounting change.................  $   0.52   $   1.13   $   0.53   $   1.49   $   1.04
    Cumulative effect of accounting change (2)........        --      (0.04)        --         --         --
                                                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
    Net earnings......................................  $   0.52   $   1.09   $   0.53   $   1.49   $   1.04
                                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
    Weighted average shares outstanding...............    58,321     50,742     50,058     48,917     47,992
                                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE DATA:
    Earnings before accounting change.................  $   0.51   $   1.11   $   0.52   $   1.46   $   1.02
    Cumulative effect of accounting change (2)........        --      (0.04)        --         --         --
                                                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
    Net earnings......................................  $   0.51   $   1.07   $   0.52   $   1.46   $   1.02
                                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
    Weighted average shares outstanding...............    59,619     51,619     50,646     49,933     49,206
                                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
Cash dividends declared, per share....................  $  0.245   $   0.22   $   0.20   $   0.16   $   0.12
                                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
</Table>

                                        34
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                      DECEMBER 31,
                                                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
                                             --------------------------------------------------------------
                                                2001         2000         1999         1998         1997
                                             ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
BALANCE SHEET DATA:
Total investments..........................  $  888,466   $  711,113   $  581,322   $  525,646   $  518,772
Premium, claims and other receivables......     665,965      609,716      636,671      382,885      252,759
Reinsurance recoverables...................     899,128      789,412      736,485      372,672      176,965
Ceded unearned premium.....................      71,140      114,469      133,657      149,568       84,610
Goodwill and intangible assets.............     328,815      266,015      263,687       88,043       34,758
Total assets...............................   3,219,120    2,790,755    2,679,737    1,709,643    1,198,353
Loss and loss adjustment expense payable...   1,130,748      944,117      871,104      460,511      275,008
Unearned premium...........................     179,530      190,550      188,524      201,050      152,094
Notes payable..............................     181,928      212,133      242,546      121,600       80,750
Shareholders' equity.......................     763,453      530,930      458,439      440,430      365,779
Book value per share(3)....................       12.40        10.29         9.12         8.94         7.50
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Certain amounts in the 2000, 1999, 1998 and 1997 selected consolidated
    financial data have been reclassified to conform to the 2001 presentation.
    Such reclassifications had no effect on our net earnings, shareholders'
    equity, or cash flows.

(2) During 2000, we changed certain of our revenue recognition methods for our
    agencies and intermediaries to agree to guidance contained in Securities and
    Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin Number 101 entitled "Revenue
    Recognition in Financial Statements". See Note (1) in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

(3) Book value per share is calculated by dividing the sum of shares outstanding
    plus contractually issuable shares into total shareholders' equity.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

     We primarily receive our revenue from earned premium derived from our
insurance company operations, management fees generated by our underwriting
agency operations, commission income produced by our intermediary operations,
investment income from all of our operations and capital and other operating
income. Our core underwriting activities involve providing life, accident and
health; aviation; marine, energy and property; and other specialty lines of
insurance and reinsurance, each of which is marketed by our insurance companies
and our underwriting agencies either directly to customers or through a network
of independent or affiliated agents and brokers.

     During the past several years, we have substantially increased our
shareholders' equity through the issuance of equity securities and through our
retaining of earnings, thereby enabling us to increase the underwriting capacity
of our insurance companies. With this additional equity, we increased
underwriting activity across many of our core lines of business, emphasizing
lines of business and individual opportunities with the most favorable
underwriting characteristics at a particular point in the insurance cycle. As an
insurer, we also purchase reinsurance for each of our lines of business. We
purchase different types of reinsurance in amounts we consider appropriate for
each of our lines of business based upon market conditions and the level of risk
we wish to retain.

     Currently, our underwriting agencies underwrite life, accident and health,
contingency (including contest indemnification, event cancellation, and weather
coverages), directors and officers liability, individual disability (for
athletes and other high profile individuals), kidnap and ransom and professional
liability insurance and other specialty lines of business on behalf of our
insurance companies and unaffiliated insurance companies. Our underwriting
agency activities are fee based and non-risk bearing.

     In conjunction with the expansion of underwriting activities by our
insurance companies and in an effort to increase the efficiency of certain of
our operations, we consolidated the operations of certain of our agency
operations with those of certain of our insurance companies in 2001 and 2002.
These consolidations will result

                                        35
<PAGE>

in a reduction in management fee income and the net earnings from our
underwriting agency segment, but such reduction should be more than offset over
time by increases in net earnings of our insurance company segment.

     Our intermediaries are fee based, non-risk bearing and place reinsurance
for our insurance companies and underwriting agencies and for other
non-affiliated insurance companies and risk taking entities, as well as
insurance on behalf of medium and large corporate clients.

     Other operating income has been generated through our insurance services
operations, which supported our own operations as well as provided services for
other clients. Additionally, other operating income may include the equity in
the earnings of a company in which we invest, dividends or gains or losses from
the disposition of these investments. In 2001, we sold the last of our service
operations, which will result in a decrease in other operating income in future
years.

     From 1999 through 2001, in response to adverse market conditions, we
focused our acquisition activities on expanding our underwriting agency and
intermediary operations for three principal reasons:

     - to provide a future source of premium revenue to our insurance companies
       in existing and new specialty lines of business and greater control of
       premium distribution channels;

     - to insulate us from a decline in our revenue growth rate as insurance
       premium rates became more competitive in our specialty lines of business
       and we became more selective in our underwriting, resulting in reduced
       earned premium;

     - to increase the management fees and commission income components of our
       total revenue, which we believed were a more predictable and stable
       source of revenue than the potential underwriting gain from insurance
       company operations during periods of overly competitive pricing.

     Late in 1999, primarily due to a reduction in reinsurance capacity, rates
began to increase, particularly in our life, accident and health, and aviation
lines of business. These market conditions continued to improve during 2000 and
2001 and also in our marine, energy and property line of business. This
improvement accelerated after the September 11 terrorist attacks and we expect
this to continue in 2002. In response to these changing market conditions, we
plan to continue to expand our underwriting activities.

     During December, 1999, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of The
Centris Group, Inc. in a transaction recorded using the purchase method of
accounting. During October, 2001, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of
ASU International, LLC and Marshall Rattner, Inc. and its operating subsidiary,
Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc., which were also transactions recorded for
using the purchase method of accounting. The results of operations and cash
flows of these three companies are included in our consolidated results
beginning on the effective date of each transaction.

     During January, 2001, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of The
Schanen Consulting Group, LLC. This business combination has been recorded using
the pooling-of-interests method of accounting. Our consolidated financial
statements have been restated to include the accounts and operations of The
Schanen Consulting Group, LLC for all periods presented.

                                        36
<PAGE>

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following table sets forth certain premium revenue information for the
three years ended December 31, 2001 (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                       2001        2000        1999
                                                    ----------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                                 <C>          <C>         <C>
Direct............................................  $  783,124   $ 676,730   $ 291,513
Reinsurance assumed...............................     226,951     290,727     276,818
                                                    ----------   ---------   ---------
  Gross written premium...........................   1,010,075     967,457     568,331
Reinsurance ceded.................................    (637,117)   (683,669)   (428,407)
                                                    ----------   ---------   ---------
  Net written premium.............................     372,958     283,788     139,924
Change in unearned premium........................     (30,171)    (16,141)      1,438
                                                    ----------   ---------   ---------
  Net earned premium..............................  $  342,787   $ 267,647   $ 141,362
                                                    ==========   =========   =========
</Table>

     The following table sets forth the relationships of certain income
statement items as a percent of total revenue for the three years ended December
31, 2001:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              2001    2000    1999
                                                              -----   -----   -----
<S>                                                           <C>     <C>     <C>
Net earned premium..........................................   67.8%   56.5%   40.9%
Management fees.............................................   12.2    20.3    26.2
Commission income...........................................    8.6    10.5    16.9
Net investment income.......................................    7.8     8.4     9.0
Net realized investment gain (loss).........................    0.1    (1.1)   (1.2)
Other operating income......................................    3.5     5.4     8.2
                                                              -----   -----   -----
          Total revenue.....................................  100.0   100.0   100.0
Loss and loss adjustment expense, net.......................   52.9    41.9    31.7
Net operating expense.......................................   33.4    33.8    53.3
Interest expense............................................    1.7     4.3     3.8
                                                              -----   -----   -----
          Earnings before income tax provision..............   12.0    20.0    11.2
Income tax provision........................................    6.0     7.9     3.5
          Net earnings before accounting change.............    6.0%   12.1%    7.7%
                                                              =====   =====   =====
</Table>

  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 VERSUS YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

     Total revenue increased 7% to $505.5 million for 2001 compared to 2000. The
increase in the insurance company segment revenue resulting from increased
business, greater retention levels and higher investment income was offset
primarily by a reduction in the underwriting agency segment revenue as we
consolidated the operations of three of our underwriting agencies into the
operations of our insurance companies on January 1, 2001. We anticipate that
total revenue will continue to increase in 2002 as earned premium continues to
grow and revenue from recent acquisitions is included in our consolidated
financial statements.

     Net investment income was $39.6 million for 2001 compared to $39.8 million
in 2000. The positive effect on investment income of our higher level of
invested assets was offset by a significant decrease in interest rates in 2001.
We expect positive operating cash flow to continue in 2002, thereby increasing
invested assets and investment income, but the increase could again be
substantially offset by the effect of continued low interest rates. During 2001,
we recorded a net realized investment gain of $0.4 million, compared to a loss
of $5.3 million in 2000. During 2001 we recognized a $2.4 million realized loss
from the write down of five investments to their estimated fair market value
compared to a similar write down of $5.1 million from one equity investment
during 2000. The loss from write downs during 2001 was offset by other gains
recorded on investments sold.

                                        37
<PAGE>

     During 2001, we experienced three significant gross losses. The largest
loss was as a result of the terrorist attacks on September 11, which produced
the biggest loss to our insurance company operations in our history. Although we
had no involvement in the insurance coverages of the airlines involved, we had
significant exposure in our accident and health reinsurance account. Our
estimates of ultimate exposure were developed through a review of policy
coverages, consideration of the effect on the estimate if the attacks were
considered multiple events rather than a single event, and communications from
our clients and producers. We also have participations in property coverage on
the World Trade Center and some of the surrounding buildings. In addition, we
anticipate some claims from other business written in the New York City area. We
also received some reported claims and estimates of losses for others. We have
utilized this information together with known coverage and reinstatement premium
information to establish our gross and net losses reserve of $141.0 million and
$35.0 million, respectively. A charge for the net amount has been included in
our 2001 consolidated financial statements. We continue to monitor the reserve
and believe our estimates to be reasonable, but they may be subject to
adjustment as we receive additional information, which could take several years
to finalize. In addition, we have reviewed the estimated reinsurance
recoverables related to this loss and believe that they are collectible in the
normal course of business. Over 95% of the total amount of reinsurance
recoverables from this loss are due from 38 companies and Lloyds' syndicates,
each of which is rated "A-" or better by either A.M. Best Company, Inc. or
Moody's Investors Services, Inc. The other two losses were the Petrobras
(Brazilian offshore energy production platform) and Total (chemical factory near
Toulouse, France) incidents, which produced gross losses of $55.0 million and
$49.0 million, respectively. Because these policies were substantially
reinsured, the net losses were not material to our results of operations. The
Petrobras loss was paid during the third quarter of 2001 and all reinsurance
recoverables related to it have been collected. We expect the reinsurance
recoverables related to the Total loss to be collected in due course once the
original claim is settled.

     During 2001, we recorded a charge totaling $37.3 million related to lines
of business that we are exiting, mainly our primary workers' compensation line
of business. The composition of this charge is $18.8 million for loss and loss
adjustment expense, $2.2 million for net policy acquisition costs and $16.3
million for other operating expense. Included in other operating expense is
$15.0 million related to the impairment of goodwill associated with the primary
workers' compensation line of business. The fair value of this line of business
was calculated based upon the present value of future expected cash flows.

     Compensation expense decreased to $69.8 million for 2001 from $83.1 million
in 2000. The decrease is due principally to the disposition of non-core
subsidiaries, the subsequent closing or reduction of some operations of an
acquired company and efficiencies gained from the consolidation of some of our
underwriting agency operations with those of our insurance companies.

     Other operating expense for 2001 included $16.3 million from charges
related to lines of business being exited. Excluding these charges, other
operating expense in 2001 was somewhat reduced for the same reasons as
compensation expense, but to a much lesser extent, and the decrease was offset
by a general increase in expenses in our operating subsidiaries as business
grew. In addition, guarantee fund and other assessments increased $3.5 million
in 2001 compared to 2000. Other operating expenses for 2000 also included a
credit of $789,000 reflecting the reversal of some restructuring charges
recorded during the previous year, whereas during 2001 we recorded $176,000 in
merger expense resulting from an acquisition. Currency conversion gains amounted
to $324,000 in 2001, compared to losses of $330,000 in 2000.

     Interest expense was $8.9 million for 2001 down from $20.3 million in 2000.
This decrease resulted from our use of the proceeds from our March, 2001 public
offering of common stock and part of our August, 2001 offering of 2% convertible
notes to pay off our debt under the bank facility, lower interest rates and the
low interest rate on our newly issued convertible notes.

     Income tax expense on earnings before the change in accounting was $30.2
million for 2001 down from $37.2 million for 2000 primarily due to the reduction
in pre tax income. The unusual effective tax rate for 2001 of 50% compared to
39% for 2000, primarily results from the charge for the impairment of goodwill
related to our exit from the primary workers' compensation line of business.
That charge was not deductible for income tax purposes.

                                        38
<PAGE>

     Net earnings before the change in accounting was $30.2 million, or $0.51
per diluted share, for 2001 compared to $57.5 million, or $1.11 per diluted
share, in 2000. This decrease primarily results from the after tax loss from the
September 11 terrorist attacks of $22.8 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, and
the after tax charge for lines of business being exited of $29.6 million, or
$0.50 per diluted share.

     Our book value per share was $12.40 as of December 31, 2001, up
substantially from $10.29 as of December 31, 2000.

SEGMENTS

  INSURANCE COMPANIES

     Gross written premium increased to $1.0 billion for 2001 from $967.5
million in 2000 with strong growth in the life, accident and health line of
business and, to a lesser extent, in the marine, energy and property line of
business, as rates continue to rise, offset by a planned decrease from exited
lines. Gross written premium growth is not our focus in 2002, as we are able to
grow our revenue simply by retaining more of the business we currently write.
Net written premium for 2001 increased 31% to $373.0 million compared to the
previous year, as our insurance companies have increased retentions on many of
their lines of business as underwriting profitability improves. Net earned
premium increased 28% to $342.8 million for the same reason. The increase in net
written premium and net earned premium is expected to continue in 2002.

     Loss and loss adjustment expense increased to $267.4 million for 2001
compared to $198.5 million in 2000 substantially due to losses and expenses
arising from the September 11 loss and the charge related to lines of business
being exited. The net loss ratio in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles was 78.0% (62.3% excluding the September 11 loss and the
charge related to lines of business being exited) for 2001 compared to 74.2% in
2000. The medical stop-loss line of business continues to have significantly
improved underwriting results. The gross loss ratio in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles was 105.5% (77.6% excluding the September 11,
Petrobras and Total losses and the charge related to lines of business being
exited) in 2001 compared to 79.4% for 2000. The Petrobras and Total claims were
substantially reinsured and did not have a material effect on our net loss ratio
or net earnings. The combined ratio in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles was 103.7% (87.1% excluding the September 11 loss and the
charge related to lines of business being exited) in 2001 compared to 95.2% for
2000.

     During 2001, we had net loss and loss adjustment expense redundancy of
$10.7 million relating to prior year losses compared to a redundancy of $9.6
million in 2000 and we had gross loss and loss adjustment expense deficiency of
$44.5 million compared to a redundancy of $1.9 million in 2000. The gross
deficiency for 2001 resulted from rate reported loss information received during
2001. These losses primarily came from assumed reinsurance business written by
one of our insurance companies. The other deficiencies and redundancies result
from our continued review with our actuaries of loss reserves and the increase
or reduction of such reserves as losses are finally settled and claims exposures
are reduced. We continue to believe we have provided for all material net
incurred losses.

     Policy acquisition costs, which are net of ceding commissions on
reinsurance ceded, increased somewhat to $27.9 million during 2001 compared to
2000. During 2001, our insurance companies charged higher policy issuance fees
on certain lines of business which are recorded as a reduction in acquisition
costs. This reduction in costs is offset by the increase in policy acquisition
costs resulting from higher earned premium and part of the charge from lines of
business being exited.

     The net loss of our insurance companies was $2.9 million in 2001 compared
to net income of $24.2 million for 2000. The 2001 results include after tax
losses from September 11 of $22.8 million and expenses of $29.4 million.

  UNDERWRITING AGENCIES

     Management fees decreased to $61.8 million for 2001 compared to $96.1
million in 2000. Much of the decrease is the result of our consolidation of the
operations of three of our underwriting agencies into the

                                        39
<PAGE>

operations of our insurance companies effective January 1, 2001. Additional
decreases are due to lines of business either sold or exited and increased
retentions of our insurance companies. Net earnings of our underwriting agencies
decreased to $17.2 million for 2001 from $21.4 million in 2000 for the same
reasons. We expect management fees (before eliminations) and net earnings of our
underwriting agency segment to grow in 2002 due to organic growth and recent
acquisitions.

  INTERMEDIARIES

     Commission income was $43.4 million for 2001 compared to $49.9 million in
2000. Commission income decreased due to general market conditions and less
ceded reinsurance being placed on behalf of our insurance companies as they
increased their retentions. Net earnings of our intermediaries decreased to $8.7
million for 2001 compared to $11.2 million in 2000. The decrease in net earnings
was partly caused by our acquisition of The Schanen Consulting Group, LLC who
was not subject to income taxes during 2000 prior to our ownership, but
reflected in our historical results due to pooling-of-interest accounting and
less commission income as a result of the mix of business, which had a lower
gross margin during the current year, somewhat offset by a lower effective tax
rate.

  OTHER OPERATIONS

     The decrease in other operating revenue to $17.4 million for 2001 from
$25.5 million in 2000 results principally from the disposition or closure of
certain non-core operations. During 2001, we recorded gains of $8.2 million from
the sale of other operating investments compared to $5.7 million for 2000. The
increase in gains was somewhat offset by loss of revenue included in the 2000
period related to operations that have since been closed or disposed of. Net
earnings of other operations were $7.1 million in 2001 up from $6.0 million in
2000 for the same reasons. Period to period comparisons may vary substantially
depending on other operating investments, or dispositions of such investments,
in any given period. As of December 31, 2001, all operating entities included in
this segment had been sold or closed so revenue is expected to decrease
substantially in 2002.

  CORPORATE

     The net loss of the corporate segment was $1.0 million for 2001 compared to
a net loss of $4.7 million in 2000. This improvement resulted from the reduction
of interest expense as we paid off our debt under the bank facility by using the
proceeds from the March, 2001 public offering of common stock and the August,
2001 offering of 2% convertible notes, lower bank interest rates and the low
interest rate on our newly issued 2% convertible notes. Also included in the
amounts for 2000 were the costs of the closing of some operations of an acquired
company.

  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 VERSUS YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

     Our total revenue increased 37% to $473.6 million in 2000 compared to 1999.
This revenue increase resulted from the higher retention of premium underwritten
by our insurance companies, particularly in the medical stop-loss line of
business, and increased investment income.

     Our net investment income increased 29% to $39.8 million in 2000 compared
to 1999. This increase was primarily due to a higher level of invested assets
which resulted from the greater retentions of premium underwritten by our
insurance companies, the investment of cash received during the first quarter of
2000 from our commutation with a reinsurer and cash flow from operations.

     In 2000, we engaged General Re New England Asset Management, a subsidiary
of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. and a nationally prominent investment advisor,
particularly to insurance companies, and undertook an in-depth review and
restructuring of our investment portfolio. As a part of this restructuring, we
shortened our investment portfolio's duration but did not significantly change
the average credit rating. Our net realized investment losses from sales or
write downs of equity securities was $5.6 million in 2000, compared to losses of
$3.9 million in 1999. In 2000, we recognized a $5.1 million realized loss from
the write down of an equity investment to its estimated fair market value based
upon market quotations compared to a similar write down
                                        40
<PAGE>

of $4.3 million in 1999. Our net realized investment gains from the disposition
of fixed income securities were $203,000 in 2000, compared to losses of $164,000
in 1999.

     Our compensation expense increased to $83.1 million during 2000 from $79.2
million in 1999. This increase reflects a normal progressional increase due to
business growth plus the increase due to The Centris Group, Inc. acquisition,
offset by the savings resulting from the 1999 fourth quarter restructuring and
the sale of non-core subsidiaries. Other than the restructuring expenses
discussed below, other operating expenses increased to $52.5 million from $47.7
million for similar reasons. Included in other operating expense are
restructuring expenses of $761,000 in 2000 and $5.5 million in 1999. Currency
conversion losses amounted to $330,000 in 2000, compared to gains of $442,000 in
1999.

     Our interest expense was $20.3 million in 2000 compared to $13.0 million in
1999. This increase is a result of higher interest rates and increased debt
outstanding, principally as a result of funding The Centris Group, Inc.
acquisition.

     Our income tax expense was $35.9 million in 2000 compared to $12.3 million
in 1999. Our effective tax rate was 39% in the 2000 period compared to 32% in
1999. Most of the increase in the effective tax rate was due to non-deductible
goodwill amortization relating to The Centris Group, Inc. acquisition, a shift
of fixed income investments to taxable instruments from tax exempt instruments
and increased underwriting agency income which is subject to state income taxes.

     Our net earnings in 2000 increased 109% to $55.5 million or $1.07 per
diluted share from $26.6 million or $0.52 per diluted share in 1999. These
increases result principally from improved underwriting results, an increase in
investment income and the effects of the provision for reinsurance and a larger
restructuring expense recorded during 1999. In 2000, we incurred a $2.0 million
after-tax charge for a change in accounting principles to conform our agency and
intermediary revenue recognition principles to those required by the guidance in
Securities and Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin Number 101
entitled "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements". The change was not
material to earnings before cumulative effect of accounting change for 2000.

     Our book value per share was $10.29 as of December 31, 2000, up from $9.12
as of December 31, 1999.

SEGMENTS

  INSURANCE COMPANIES

     Gross written premium generated by our insurance companies increased 70% to
$967.5 million in 2000 compared to 1999 due to new business, rate increases,
increased participation by our insurance companies in the business underwritten
by our underwriting agencies and the acquisition of The Centris Group, Inc. Net
written premium generated by our insurance companies in 2000 increased 103% to
$283.8 million compared to 1999, as our insurance companies have increased
retentions in many of their lines of business as underwriting results showed
improvement. Net earned premium increased 89% to $267.6 million during 2000 for
the same reasons.

     Loss and loss adjustment expense incurred by our insurance companies
increased to $198.5 million in 2000 from $109.7 million in 1999. The increase in
net loss and loss adjustment expense is due to the higher level of net retained
premium, net of the effect of improved underwriting results. The net loss ratio
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles decreased to 74.2%
in 2000 from 77.6% in 1999. In 2000, we also recorded a $4.4 million increase in
reserves for exited lines of business acquired with our 1999 acquisition of The
Centris Group, Inc. This increase represents 1.6% of the 2000 net loss ratio.
The gross loss ratio in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
decreased to 79.4% in 2000 from 116.5% in 1999. The general improvement in our
loss ratios results from the effects of increased premium rates in certain lines
of business, reduced writings in other unprofitable lines of business and a
general improvement in market conditions, particularly in the domestic aviation
and medical stop-loss lines of business. The combined ratio in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles of our insurance companies was 95.2%
for 2000 compared to 129.3% (98.6% excluding effects of the provision for
reinsurance) in 1999.

                                        41
<PAGE>

     During 2000, we had net loss and loss adjustment expense redundancy of $9.6
million relating to prior year losses compared to a deficiency of $4.6 million
in 1999 and we had gross loss and loss adjustment expense redundancy of $1.9
million compared to a deficiency of $90.0 million in 1999. The 1999 gross
deficiency results from two principal conditions. The first is the development
of large claims on individual policies which were either reported late or for
which reserves were increased as subsequent information became available.
However, as these policies were substantially reinsured, there was no material
effect to our net earnings. Secondly, during 1999 in connection with the
insolvency of one of the our reinsurers and with the commutation, finalized
subsequent to year end, of all liabilities with another, we re-evaluated all
loss reserves and incurred but not reported loss reserves related to business
placed with these reinsurers to determine the ultimate losses we might
conservatively expect. These reserves were then used as the basis for the
determination of the provision for reinsurance recorded in 1999. The other
deficiencies and redundancies in the reserves result from our continued review
with our actuaries of loss reserves and the increase or reduction of such
reserves as losses are finally settled and claims exposures are reduced. We
continue to believe we have provided for all material net incurred losses.

     Policy acquisition costs, which are net of commissions on ceded
reinsurance, increased to $23.7 million during 2000 from $8.2 million for 1999.
This increase in costs results from higher retained premium and the resulting
reduced ceding commissions.

     Net earnings of our insurance companies increased to $24.2 million in 2000
from a loss of $10.7 million in 1999, primarily as a result of improved
underwriting results, the effect of the provision for reinsurance recorded in
1999 and the increase in investment income.

  UNDERWRITING AGENCIES

     Management fees generated by our underwriting agencies increased 6% to
$96.1 million in 2000 compared to 1999. This increase resulted primarily from
the increased premium volume in the medical stop-loss line of business, which
was due to rate increases and The Centris Group, Inc. acquisition. The increase
in management fees was disproportionate to the increase in premium as a result
of higher policy issuance fees and increased retentions by our insurance
companies which reduced management fees earned by our underwriting agencies.
These reductions are offset by an equal reduction in net policy acquisition
costs of our insurance companies. Net earnings of our underwriting agencies
increased 25% to $21.4 million in 2000 from $17.2 million in 1999 due to
increased revenue, a smaller restructuring charge in 2000 than in 1999 and
higher pretax margins primarily as a result of the successful integration of The
Centris Group, Inc. acquisition.

  INTERMEDIARIES

     Commission income decreased to $49.9 million in 2000 from $58.2 million in
1999. Net earnings of our intermediaries decreased to $11.2 million in 2000 from
$15.1 million in 1999. These decreases were due to a significant reduction in
the amount of ceded reinsurance placed on behalf of our insurance companies as a
result of their planned increase in retentions.

  OTHER OPERATIONS

     Other operating revenue decreased to $25.5 million during 2000 from $28.5
million for the same period in 1999. Net earnings of our other operations
decreased to $6.0 million in 2000 from $7.6 million in 1999. Revenue and
earnings can vary considerably from period to period depending on investment or
disposition activity.

  CORPORATE

     The net loss of the corporate segment was $4.7 million in 2000 compared to
a net loss of $2.3 million in 1999. This resulted from the increase of interest
expense not allocated to the operating segments during 2000 as well as costs of
the closing of some operations of a company acquired in late 1999.

                                        42
<PAGE>

  RESTRUCTURING

     As of December 31, 1999, we accrued a restructuring liability of $4.0
million related to our ongoing operations. As of December 31, 2000, all
restructuring costs had been paid or adjusted with the exception of a remaining
liability of $105,000. During 2000, we determined that one of the leased offices
scheduled to be closed would be retained. Therefore, we reversed $789,000
(included as a credit in other operating expenses in the consolidated financial
statements) of the restructuring expense recorded during the fourth quarter of
1999, of which $514,000 was the reversal of the accrual for future lease
payments and $275,000 was the reversal of the write-off of certain assets.

     As of December 31, 1999, we had also accrued a restructuring liability
related to our acquisition of The Centris Group, Inc. Changes in the accrual
between December 31, 1999 and December 31, 2000 are shown in the table below (in
thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                            ACCRUED AT    PAID IN      2000       ACCRUED AT
                                             12/31/99      2000     ADJUSTMENTS    12/31/00
                                            -----------   -------   -----------   -----------
<S>                                         <C>           <C>       <C>           <C>
Contractual executive severance
  accruals................................    $5,866      $6,027      $  166        $    5
Other severance accruals..................       397         541         258           114
Lease obligation accruals.................       848       1,004       1,196         1,040
                                              ------      ------      ------        ------
          TOTAL...........................    $7,111      $7,572      $1,620        $1,159
                                              ======      ======      ======        ======
</Table>

     The adjustments in 2000 were recorded as management decided to take
additional steps to integrate parts of The Centris Group, Inc. operations. As of
December 31, 2001, all amounts have been paid except for a $0.3 million lease
obligation.

     During the fourth quarter of 2000, we also recorded a restructuring charge
and associated expenses of $1.5 million. A total of 26 employees were terminated
as a result of our restructuring of certain underwriting agency operations and
their integration into our insurance company operations. The charges affected
both segments and consisted of $557,000 accrued severance pay to be paid at
various times throughout 2001 and $992,000 for the write down or write off of
various impaired assets, primarily redundant computer software.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     We receive substantial cash from premiums, reinsurance recoverables, and
management fee and commission income and, to a lesser extent, investment income,
and proceeds from sales and redemptions of investments and other assets. Our
principal cash outflows are for the payment of claims and loss adjustment
expenses, payment of premiums to reinsurers, purchase of investments, debt
service, and payment of policy acquisition costs, operating expenses, income and
other taxes and dividends. Variations in operating cash flows can occur due to
timing differences in either the payment of claims and the collection of related
recoverables or the collection of receivables and the payment of related payable
amounts. We limit our liquidity exposure by holding funds, letters of credit and
other security such that net balances due to us are less than the gross balances
shown in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.

     We maintain a substantial level of cash and liquid short-term investments
which are used to meet anticipated payment obligations. Our consolidated cash
and investment portfolio increased $180.3 million, or 25% during 2001, and
totaled $905.4 million as of December 31, 2001, of which $355.8 million was cash
and short-term investments. The increase in investments resulted primarily from
operating cash flows and the $60.0 million in capital contributions we made to
our insurance companies in 2002. Total assets increased to $3.2 billion as of
December 31, 2001.

     Our investment portfolio includes a high percentage of liquid investments
and generates a significant amount of investment income, which serves as a
source of cash flow. The average tax equivalent yield on investments was 5.6% in
2001, compared to 7.1% in 2000. The weighted average duration of the portfolio
was four years as of December 31, 2001. Over 98% of our fixed income securities
were rated A or better by Standard & Poor's Corporation. The value of our
portfolio of fixed income securities is inversely correlated to changes in
market interest rates. In addition, some of our fixed income securities have
call or prepayment

                                        43
<PAGE>

options. This could subject us to reinvestment risk should interest rates fall
or issuers call their securities and we reinvest the proceeds at lower interest
rates. We mitigate this risk by investing in securities with varied maturity
dates, so that only a portion of our portfolio will mature at any point in time.

     On March 6, 2001, we sold 6.9 million shares of our common stock in a
public offering at a price of $23.35 per share. Net proceeds from the offering
amounted to $152.4 million after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions
and offering expenses and were used to pay down our bank facility.

     On August 23, 2001, we issued an aggregate $172.5 million principal amount
of 2% Convertible Notes due 2021 in a public offering. Each $1,000 principal
amount of notes is convertible into 31.25 shares of our common stock, which
represents an initial conversion price of $32.00 per share. The initial
conversion price is subject to change under certain conditions. Interest is to
be paid by us on March 1 and September 1 each year. Holders may surrender notes
for conversion into shares of our common stock in any calendar quarter if, as of
the last day of the preceding calendar quarter, the closing sale price of our
common stock for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive
trading days ending on the last trading day of the quarter is more than 120%
(currently $38.40 per share) of the conversion price per share of our common
stock on the last trading day of the quarter. We can redeem the notes for cash
at any time on or after September 1, 2006. Holders of the notes may require us
to repurchase the notes on September 1, 2002, 2004, 2006, 2008, 2011 and 2016.
If the holders exercise this option, we may choose to pay the purchase price in
cash, in shares of our common stock, or a combination thereof. We paid $4.4
million in underwriting discounts and expenses in connection with the offering,
which are being amortized from the issue date until September 1, 2002. We used
the proceeds from this offering to repay our remaining indebtedness under the
bank facility, assist in financing the recent acquisitions, make a $60.0 million
capital contribution to our principal insurance companies and for general
corporate purposes.

     On December 17, 1999, we entered into a $300.0 million Revolving Loan
Facility with a group of banks. At our request, the amount available under the
facility was reduced to $200.0 million by an amendment on June 6, 2001. We can
borrow up to the maximum amount allowed by the facility on a revolving basis
until the facility expires on December 17, 2004. Outstanding advances under the
facility bear interest at agreed upon rates, which ranged between 2.6% and 3.1%
as of December 31, 2001. The facility is collateralized in part by the pledge of
the stock of two of our principal insurance companies, Houston Casualty Company
and Avemco Insurance Company, and by the stock of and guarantees entered into by
our principal underwriting agencies and intermediaries. The facility agreement
contains certain restrictive covenants, including minimum net worth requirements
for us and certain of our subsidiaries, restrictions on certain extraordinary
corporate actions, notice requirements for certain material occurrences and
required maintenance of specified financial ratios. We believe that the
restrictive covenants and our obligations that are contained in the facility
agreement are typical for financing arrangements comparable to our facility. As
of December 31, 2001, there was no outstanding balance on this facility.

     As of December 31, 2001, certain of our subsidiaries maintained revolving
lines of credit with a bank in the combined maximum amount of $20.0 million
available through December 17, 2004. Advances under the lines of credit are
limited to amounts required to fund draws, if any, on letters of credit issued
by the bank on behalf of the subsidiaries and short-term direct cash advances.
The lines of credit are collateralized by securities having an aggregate market
value of up to $25.0 million, the actual amount of collateral at any one time
being 125% of the aggregate amount outstanding. Interest on the lines is payable
at the bank's prime rate of interest (4.75% at December 31, 2001) for draws on
the letters of credit and prime less 1% on short-term cash advances. As of
December 31, 2001, letters of credit totaling $7.1 million had been issued to
insurance companies by the bank on behalf of our subsidiaries, with total
securities of $8.9 million collateralizing the lines.

                                        44
<PAGE>

     The following is a summary of our contractual cash payment obligations as
of December 31, 2001 (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           PAYMENTS BY DUE DATE
                                               --------------------------------------------
                                     TOTAL      2002     2003-2004   2005-2006   THEREAFTER
                                    --------   -------   ---------   ---------   ----------
<S>                                 <C>        <C>       <C>         <C>         <C>
Convertible notes.................  $172,500   $    --    $    --     $   --      $172,500
Bank facility.....................        --        --         --         --            --
Other notes payable...............     9,428     5,193      2,516        404         1,315
Operating leases..................    26,639     6,663     11,741      7,350           885
                                    --------   -------    -------     ------      --------
                                    $208,567   $11,856    $14,257     $7,754      $174,700
                                    ========   =======    =======     ======      ========
</Table>

     See preceding paragraphs and Notes (5) and (9) in Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information of these obligations. The
convertible notes have various put dates beginning September 1, 2002.

     The following is a summary of our various commitments and their expirations
as of December 31, 2001 (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            COMMITMENT EXPIRATION BY PERIOD
                                                           ---------------------------------
                                                  TOTAL     2002     2003-2004    2005-2006
                                                 -------   -------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                              <C>       <C>       <C>          <C>
Outgoing letters of credit.....................  $ 7,137   $   --      $7,137      $    --
Mortgage guarantee.............................   11,356       --          --       11,356
Investment commitments.........................    5,600    5,600          --           --
                                                 -------   ------      ------      -------
          Total commitments....................  $24,093   $5,600      $7,137      $11,356
                                                 =======   ======      ======      =======
</Table>

     The principal assets of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. are the shares of
capital stock of our insurance companies. Historically, we have not relied on
dividends from our insurance companies to meet the obligations of the parent
holding company, which are primarily outstanding debt and debt service
obligations, dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses, but, rather, we
have had sufficient cash flow from our underwriting agencies and intermediaries
to meet our cash flow requirements. The payment of dividends by our insurance
companies is subject to regulatory restrictions and will depend on the surplus
and future earnings of these subsidiaries.

     Property and casualty insurance companies domiciled in the State of Texas
are limited in the payment of dividends to their shareholders in any
twelve-month period, without the prior written consent of the Commissioner of
Insurance, to the greater of statutory net income for the prior calendar year or
10% of its statutory policyholders' surplus as of the prior year end. Dividends
may only be paid out of statutory unassigned surplus funds. During 2002, Houston
Casualty Company's ordinary dividend capacity will be approximately $28.5
million and U.S. Specialty Insurance Company's ordinary dividend capacity will
be zero.

     Under the laws of the State of Maryland, Avemco Insurance Company may only
pay dividends out of statutory earned surplus. The maximum amount of dividends
that Avemco Insurance Company may pay without prior regulatory approval in any
twelve-month period is the lesser of its statutory net investment income
excluding realized capital gains for the prior calendar year or 10% of its
statutory policyholders' surplus as of the prior year end. During 2002, Avemco
Insurance Company will have an ordinary dividend capacity of approximately $7.2
million.

     HCC Life Insurance Company is limited by the laws of the State of Indiana
in the amount of dividends it may pay in any twelve-month period, without prior
regulatory approval, to the greater of its statutory net gain from operations
for the prior calendar year or 10% of its policyholders' surplus as of the prior
year end. During 2002, HCC Life Insurance Company's ordinary dividend capacity
will be approximately $15.1 million.

     As of December 31, 2001, we had a net deferred tax asset of $16.5 million
compared to $6.7 million as of December 31, 2000. Due to our history of
consistent earnings, expectations for future earnings and taxable income in
carry back years, we expect to be able to fully realize the benefit of our net
deferred tax asset.

                                        45
<PAGE>

     We have a reserve of $5.2 million as of December 31, 2001 for potential
collectibility issues related to reinsurance recoverables and associated
expenses. The adverse economic environment in the worldwide insurance industry
and the terrorist attacks on September 11 have placed great pressure on
reinsurers and the results of their operations. Ultimately, these conditions
could affect reinsurers' solvency. Historically, there have been insolvencies
following a period of competitive pricing in the industry, such as the
marketplace has experienced for the last several years. While we believe that
the reserve is adequate based on currently available information, conditions may
change or additional information might be obtained that would affect our
estimate of the adequacy of the level of the reserve and which may result in a
future change in the reserve. We continually review our financial exposure to
the reinsurance market and continue to take actions to mitigate our position.

     A number of reinsurers have delayed or suspended the payment of amounts
recoverable under certain reinsurance contracts to which we are a party. Such
delays have affected, although not materially to date, the investment income of
our insurance companies, but not to any extent their liquidity. We limit our
liquidity exposure by holding funds, letters of credit or other security such
that net balances due are significantly less than the gross balances shown in
our consolidated balance sheets. In some instances, the reinsurers have withheld
payment without reference to a substantive basis for the delay or suspension. In
other cases, the reinsurers have claimed they are not liable to for payment to
us of all or part of the amounts due under the applicable reinsurance agreement.
We believe these claims are without merit and expect to collect the full amounts
recoverable. We are currently in negotiations with most of these parties, but if
such negotiations do not result in a satisfactory resolution of the matters in
question, we may seek or be involved in a judicial or arbitral determination of
these matters. In some cases, the final resolution of such disputes through
arbitration or litigation may extend over several years.

     In this regard, as of December 31, 2001, our insurance companies had
initiated litigation or arbitration proceedings against five reinsurers and were
involved in one arbitration proceeding initiated by a reinsurer. These
proceedings primarily concern the collection of amounts owing under reinsurance
agreements. As of such date, our insurance companies had an aggregate amount of
$15.3 million which had not been paid to us under the disputed agreements and we
estimate that there could be an additional $31.2 million of incurred losses and
loss expenses under the subject agreements. In addition, because our insurance
companies, principally Houston Casualty Company, participated in facilities
which were managed by one of our underwriting agencies, they are indirectly
involved in any reinsurance disputes which affect the applicable facilities. As
of December 31, 2001, Houston Casualty Company's allocated portion of aggregate
amounts which had not been reimbursed to the applicable facilities under the
disputed agreements was $4.8 million and we estimate that there could be an
additional $4.0 million of incurred losses and loss expenses under the subject
agreements allocated to Houston Casualty Company. Houston Casualty Company has
no net exposure on disputed amounts due to the non-affiliated companies who also
participated in the applicable facilities.

     Regulatory guidelines suggest that a property and casualty insurer's annual
statutory gross written premium should not exceed 900% of its statutory
policyholders' surplus and net written premium should not exceed 300% of its
statutory policyholders' surplus. However, industry standards and rating agency
criteria place these ratios at 300% and 200%, respectively. In the past, our
property and casualty insurance companies have maintained premium to surplus
ratios generally lower than such guidelines and below industry norms. For the
year ended December 31, 2001, our statutory gross written premium to
policyholders' surplus was 252.8% compared to 298.0% for the year ended December
31, 2000. For the year ended December 31, 2001, our statutory net written
premium to policyholders' surplus was 92.5% compared to 87.0% for the year ended
December 31, 2000. The gross written premium ratio increased during 2000 with
the acquisition of The Centris Group, Inc.'s book of medical stop-loss business
and the increasing use of our insurance companies as the issuing company for
business written by our underwriting agencies. This ratio is expected to
decrease slowly from its current level as statutory policyholders' surplus
increases due to the retention of earnings, capital contributions and other
increases in policyholders' surplus. As of December 31, 2001, each of our
domestic insurance companies' total adjusted capital was significantly in excess
of the authorized control level risk-based capital level prescribed by the
National Association of Insurance Commissioners.

                                        46
<PAGE>

     Subsequent to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, where possible,
we canceled all terrorist coverage, to the extent we could, under the terms of
existing in-force policies, primarily in the property and energy lines of
business. All new and renewal policies are written with an appropriate terrorist
exclusion except for lines of business, such as aviation, where reinsurance for
acts of terrorism is available at an economic cost or where we feel comfortable
with the net exposure.

     At January 1, 2002, and February 1, 2002, respectively, our onshore energy
and property reinsurance protections were renewed without coverage for acts of
terrorism. Therefore, to the extent that certain existing, in-force policies
contain such coverage, then we would have a net exposure to any applicable
losses. The actual amount of this exposure is not determinable but could
represent a catastrophic loss, a risk for which we would usually purchase
reinsurance protection. We do not believe that any loss would severely impact
our capital. As each month goes by, existing in-force policies will expire and
the overall exposure continues to reduce substantially.

IMPACT OF INFLATION

     Our operations, like those of other property and casualty insurers, are
susceptible to the effects of inflation, as premiums are established before the
ultimate amounts of loss and loss adjustment expense are known. Although we
consider the potential effects of inflation when setting premium rates, for
competitive reasons, such premiums may not fully offset the effects of
inflation. However, because the majority of our business is comprised of lines
which have relatively short lead times between the occurrence of an insured
event, reporting of the claims to us and the final settlement of the claims, the
effects of inflation are minimized.

     A significant portion of our revenue is related to healthcare insurance and
reinsurance products that are subject to the effects of the underlying inflation
of healthcare costs. Such inflation in the costs of healthcare tends to generate
increases in premiums for medical stop-loss coverage, resulting in greater
revenue, but also higher claim payments. Inflation may have a negative impact on
insurance and reinsurance operations by causing higher claim settlements than
may originally have been estimated without an immediate increase in premiums to
a level necessary to maintain profit margins. We do not specifically provide for
inflation when setting underwriting terms and claim reserves, although we do
consider trends. We continually review claim reserves to assess their adequacy
and make necessary adjustments. Also, the market value of our investments vary
depending on economic and market conditions and interest rates. Any significant
increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the market
value of our investments. In addition, the interest rate payable under our
$200.0 million bank loan fluctuates with that of the market. Any significant
increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our earnings,
depending on the amount borrowed on our bank facility.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS

     We underwrite risks which are denominated in a number of foreign
currencies. As a result, we have receivables and payables in foreign currencies
and we establish and maintain loss reserves with respect to our insurance
policies in their respective currencies. Our net earnings could be impacted by
exchange rate fluctuations affecting these balances. Our principal area of
exposure is with respect to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the major
European currencies and the U.S. Dollar. We constantly monitor the balance
between our receivables and payables and loss reserves to mitigate the potential
exposure should an imbalance be expected to exist for other than a short period
of time. For the year ended December 31, 2001, our gain from currency conversion
was $0.3 million compared to a loss of $0.3 million in 2000 and a gain of $0.4
million in 1999.

     On a limited basis, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts as a
hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. RML has revenue streams in U.S.
Dollars and Canadian Dollars but incurs expenses in British Pound Sterling
("GBP"). To mitigate the foreign exchange risk, we have entered into foreign
currency forward contracts expiring at staggered times through December, 2002.
As of December 31, 2001, we had forward contracts to sell US $6.0 million for
GBP at an average rate of GBP 1.00 equals US $1.43. The foreign currency forward
contracts are used to convert currency at a known rate in an amount which either
approximates or is less than average monthly expenses. Thus, the effect of these
transactions is to limit the

                                        47
<PAGE>

foreign currency exchange risk of the recurring monthly expenses. We utilize
these foreign currency forward contracts strictly as a hedge against existing
exposure to foreign currency fluctuations rather than as a form of speculative
or trading investment. The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts
December 31, 2001 was immaterial.

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and
assumptions when applying our accounting policies. Those of our accounting
policies that we consider to be most significant and the estimates and
assumptions we make in the application of those accounting policies are
discussed below.

  Earned Premium and Policy Acquisition Costs

     All of the property and casualty policies written by our insurance
companies qualify as short-duration contracts as defined by current accounting
literature. Written premium, net of reinsurance, is primarily included in
earnings on a pro rata basis over the lives of the related policies. However,
for certain types of business, it is recognized over the period of risk in
proportion to the amount of insurance risk provided. Policy acquisition costs,
including commissions, taxes, fees and other direct costs of underwriting
policies, less ceding commissions allowed by reinsurers, including expense
allowances, are deferred and charged or credited to earnings proportionate to
the premium earned. Historical and current loss and loss adjustment expense
experience and anticipated investment income are considered in determining
premium deficiencies and the recoverability of deferred policy acquisition
costs.

  Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense

     Loss and loss adjustment expense payable by our insurance companies is
based on estimates of payments to be made for reported and incurred but not
reported losses and anticipated receipts from salvage and subrogation receipts.
All reserves are recorded on an undiscounted basis, except for an immaterial
amount of reserves acquired in a transaction recorded using the purchase method
of accounting. Estimates for reported losses are based on all available
information, including reports received from ceding companies on assumed
business. Estimates for incurred but not reported losses are based both on our
experience and the industry's experience. While we believe that amounts included
in our financial statements are adequate, such estimates may be more or less
than the amounts ultimately paid when the claims are settled. We continually
review the estimates with our actuaries and any changes are reflected in the
period of change.

  Reinsurance Recoverables

     We constantly review the collectibility of the reinsurance recoverables of
our insurance companies and record a reserve for uncollectible reinsurance. Our
estimates utilized to calculate the reserve are subject to change and this could
affect the level of the reserve required.

  Management Fees and Commission Income

     When there is no significant future servicing obligation, management fees
and commission income from our underwriting agencies and intermediaries,
respectively, are recognized on the revenue recognition date, which is the later
of the effective date of policy, the date when the premium can be reasonably
established, or the date when substantially all the services relating to the
insurance placement have been rendered to the client. Profit commissions based
upon the profitability of business written are recorded as revenue at the end of
each accounting period based upon the respective formula calculation. Such
amounts are adjusted should experience change. When additional services are
required, the service revenue is deferred and recognized over the service
period. We also record an allowance for estimated return commissions which may
be required to be paid upon the early termination of policies. These policies
are consistent with policies that have become generally accepted accounting
principles for insurance agents and brokers and with Securities and Exchange
Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin Number 101 entitled "Revenue Recognition in
Financial Statements."

                                        48
<PAGE>

  Deferred Taxes

     We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences
between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and
liabilities. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and
establish a valuation allowance based on our history of earnings, expectations
for future earnings, taxable income in carry back years and the expected timing
of the reversals of existing temporary differences. Although realization is not
assured, we believe it is more likely than not that we will be able to realize
the benefit of our deferred tax assets. If there is a material change in the tax
laws such that the actual effective tax rate changes or the time periods within
which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible change,
we will need to reevaluate our assumptions which could result in a change in the
valuation allowance required.

  Valuation of Goodwill and Intangible Assets

     We assess the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be
recoverable. Factors we consider important which could trigger an impairment
review include the following:

     - significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected
       future operating results;

     - significant changes in the strategy for our overall business; and

     - significant negative industry or economic trends.

     When we determine that the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible
assets may not be recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, we will reduce
the carrying value of the asset to estimated fair value, which is most often
based on projected discounted cash flows using a discount rate we determine to
be commensurate with the risk. Utilization of different assumptions to project
cash flows and changes in interest rates could yield different estimates of
discounted cash flow and fair value.

EFFECTS OF RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133
entitled "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities"
effective January 1, 2001. The cumulative effect adjustment due to this change
in accounting is not material to our financial position, results of operations
or cash flows. Since we utilize derivatives or hedging strategies on a limited
basis, we do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 133 to be material on an
ongoing basis. SFAS No. 141 entitled "Business Combinations" was issued in June,
2001 and became effective July 1, 2001. SFAS No. 141 requires that all business
combinations be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, which
requires that acquisitions be recorded at fair value as of the date of
acquisition. The pooling-of-interests method of accounting allowed under prior
standards, which reflected business combinations using historical financial
information, is now prohibited.

     SFAS No. 142 entitled "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" was also
issued in June, 2001, in concert with SFAS No. 141. SFAS No. 142 becomes
effective for us on January 1, 2002. SFAS No. 142 requires goodwill to be tested
for impairment at a level referred to as a reporting unit, which could be either
our reportable segments or one level lower than our reportable segments. SFAS
No. 142 requires us to perform the first goodwill impairment test on all
reporting units within six months of adoption. The first step is to compare the
fair value with the book value of a reporting unit. If the fair value of a
reporting unit is less than its book value, the second step will be to calculate
the impairment loss, if any. We will recognize any impairment loss from the
initial adoption of SFAS No. 142 as a change in accounting principle. After the
initial adoption, goodwill of a reporting unit will be tested for impairment on
an annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances
change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit
below its carrying amount. SFAS No. 142 is not expected to have a material
effect on our financial position or cash flows, but it will impact our results
of operations. Based upon our preliminary review of the impact of SFAS No. 142
to determine the effect, if any, of the initial goodwill impairment testing, we
do not believe that we will have to record an impairment charge. However, we are
still in the process of completing the valuations, so our tentative conclusion
could change.
                                        49
<PAGE>

     SFAS No. 142 also requires the discontinuance of the amortization of
goodwill effective January 1, 2002 and that goodwill recognized for acquisition
which were consummated after July 1, 2001 not be amortized. Amortization of
goodwill charged to operations, net of tax effect, in 2001, 2000 and 1999 was
$11.0 million, $11.5 million and $5.5 million, respectively. We did not amortize
the goodwill related to our acquisitions consummated in October, 2001.

     SFAS No. 144 entitled "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets" was issued in August, 2001 and will become effective for us
on January 1, 2002. SFAS No. 144 resolves implementation issues being
experienced under previously existing accounting literature but does not change
previous requirements to (a) recognize an impairment loss if the carrying amount
for an asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows, and (b)
measure the impairment loss as the difference between carrying amount and fair
value of the asset. SFAS No. 144 also retains the basic provisions of
discontinued operations found in previous accounting literature but broadens the
separate income statement presentation of discontinued operations from a
reporting segment to a component of the entity which has clearly distinguishable
operations and cash flows. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 144 to have
a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.

EURO CONVERSION

     On January 1, 1999, certain member countries of the European Union
irrevocably fixed the conversion rates between their national currencies and a
common currency, the Euro, which became the common legal currency of those
countries on that date. The participating countries' former national currencies
continued to serve as legal tender and as denominations of the Euro until
January 1, 2002. The conversion to the Euro is scheduled to be completed on July
1, 2002, when the national currencies will cease to exist. The introduction of
the Euro has not had a material effect on our business, financial condition or
results of operations.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

     Our principal assets and liabilities are financial instruments which are
subject to the market risk of potential losses from adverse changes in market
rates and prices. Our primary market risk exposures are: interest rate risk on
fixed income securities and interest expense on variable rate debt, equity risk
on marketable equity securities, credit risk on reinsurance recoverables and
foreign currency exchange rate risk.

     To manage the exposures of our investment risks, we generally invest in
investment grade securities with characteristics of duration and liquidity to
reflect the underlying characteristics of the insurance liabilities of our
insurance companies. We have not historically used derivatives to manage any of
our investment related market risks.

     Caution should be used in evaluating overall market risk from the
information below. Actual results could differ materially from estimates below
for a variety of reasons, including, among other things:

     - amounts and balances on which the estimates are based are likely to
       change over time;

     - assumptions used in the models may prove to be inaccurate;

     - market changes could be different from market changes assumed below; and

     - not all factors and balances are taken into account.

  Interest Rate Risk

     The value of our portfolio of fixed income securities is inversely
correlated to changes in the market interest rates. In addition, some of our
fixed income securities have call or prepayment options. This could subject us
to reinvestment risk should interest rates fall or issuers call their securities
and we reinvest the proceeds at lower interest rates. We attempt to mitigate
this risk by investing in securities with varied maturity dates, so that only a
portion of the portfolio will mature at any point in time. The fair value of our
fixed income securities as of December 31, 2001 was $525.4 million and was
$433.8 million as of December 31, 2000. If market interest rates were to change
1%, (e.g. from 5% to 6%) the fair value of our fixed income securities
                                        50
<PAGE>

would change approximately $21.0 million as of December 31, 2001. This compares
to change in value of $17.9 million as of December 31, 2000 for the same 1%
change in market interest rates. The change in fair value was determined using
duration modeling assuming no prepayments.

     Our $200.0 million bank loan is subject to variable interest rates. Thus,
our interest expense on this loan is directly correlated to market interest
rates. As of December 31, 2000, we had $207.5 million in debt outstanding under
the bank loan. At that debt level, the 1% change in market interest rates (e.g.
from 8.0% to 7.0%) would have changed interest expense by $2.1 million. As of
December 31, 2001, there was no balance outstanding under our bank loan and our
2% convertible notes are not subject to interest rate changes.

  Equity Risk

     Our portfolio of marketable equity securities is subject to equity price
risk due to market changes. The fair value of our marketable equity securities
as of December 31, 2001 was $16.6 million, compared to $6.3 million as of
December 31, 2000. The balance at December 31, 2001 includes mutual fund
securities with a value of $12.8 million. These mutual funds are invested
heavily in fixed income securities but represent marketable equity securities
for reporting purposes. If the market price of all marketable equity securities
were to change by 10% as of these dates, the fair value of our equity portfolio
would have changed $1.7 million as of December 31, 2001 and $0.6 million as of
December 31, 2000.

  Foreign Exchange Risk

     The table below shows the net amounts of significant foreign currency
balances at December 31, 2001 and 2000 converted to U.S. Dollars. It also shows
the expected dollar change in fair value that would occur if exchange rates
changed 10% from exchange rates in effect at those times (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                  2001                          2000
                                       ---------------------------   ---------------------------
                                                     HYPOTHETICAL                  HYPOTHETICAL
                                       U.S. DOLLAR   10% CHANGE IN   U.S. DOLLAR   10% CHANGE IN
                                       EQUIVALENT     FAIR VALUE     EQUIVALENT     FAIR VALUE
                                       -----------   -------------   -----------   -------------
<S>                                    <C>           <C>             <C>           <C>
British Pound Sterling...............    $2,366          $237          $7,486          $749
Canadian Dollar......................     1,651           165              65             7
Euro and 12 national currencies......       313            31           1,345           135
Cape Verde Escudo....................       762            76           1,685           169
</Table>

     See Foreign Exchange Rate Fluctuations section contained in Item 7,
Management's Discussion and Notes (1) and (9) in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The financial statements and financial statement schedules listed in the
accompanying index are filed as part of this Report.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES

     None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     For information regarding Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant, reference is made to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement for
its Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2001, and which is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                        51
<PAGE>

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     For information regarding Executive Compensation, reference is made to the
Registrant's definitive proxy statement for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders,
which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days
after December 31, 2001, and which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     For information regarding Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management, reference is made to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement
for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2001, and which is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     For information regarding Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
reference is made to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement for its Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2001, and which is incorporated
herein by reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) Exhibits

     The exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to Exhibits are filed as part
of this Report.

     (b) Financial Statement Schedules

     The financial statements and financial statement schedules listed in the
accompanying index are filed as part of this Report.

     (c) Reports on Form 8-K

     On October 10, 2001, we reported on Form 8-K two items:

     - Our announcement as to the status of our two planned acquisitions.

     - Our announcement confirming our estimate of our losses from to the
       September 11 terrorist attacks and the anticipated impact on our third
       quarter results.

     On November 9, 2001, we reported on Form 8-K our announcement of financial
results for the third quarter of 2001.

     On November 13, 2001, we reported on Form 8-K the text materials used to a
presentation at an investors' conference.

                                        52
<PAGE>

                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.
                                          (Registrant)

                                          By:      /s/ STEPHEN L. WAY
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                      (Stephen L. Way)
                                                 Chairman of the Board and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer

Dated: March 29, 2002

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

<Table>
<Caption>
                       NAME                                        TITLE                       DATE
                       ----                                        -----                       ----
<S>     <C>                                          <C>                                  <C>

                /s/ STEPHEN L. WAY                   Chairman of the Board of Directors   March 29, 2002
 ------------------------------------------------       and Chief Executive Officer
                 (Stephen L. Way)                      (Principal Executive Officer)


              /s/ FRANK J. BRAMANTI*                              Director                March 29, 2002
 ------------------------------------------------
               (Frank J. Bramanti)


               /s/ MARVIN P. BUSH*                                Director                March 29, 2002
 ------------------------------------------------
                 (Marvin P. Bush)


             /s/ PATRICK B. COLLINS*                              Director                March 29, 2002
 ------------------------------------------------
               (Patrick B. Collins)


               /s/ JAMES R. CRANE*                                Director                March 29, 2002
 ------------------------------------------------
                 (James R. Crane)


             /s/ J. ROBERT DICKERSON*                             Director                March 29, 2002
 ------------------------------------------------
              (J. Robert Dickerson)


             /s/ EDWARD H. ELLIS, JR.                 Director, Senior Vice President     March 29, 2002
 ------------------------------------------------    and Chief Financial Officer (Chief
              (Edward H. Ellis, Jr.)                        Accounting Officer)


            /s/ JAMES C. FLAGG, PH.D.*                            Director                March 29, 2002
 ------------------------------------------------
             (James C. Flagg, Ph.D.)


             /s/ EDWIN H. FRANK, III*                             Director                March 29, 2002
 ------------------------------------------------
              (Edwin H. Frank, III)
</Table>

                                        53
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                       NAME                                        TITLE                       DATE
                       ----                                        -----                       ----

<S>     <C>                                          <C>                                  <C>

             /s/ ALLAN W. FULKERSON*                              Director                March 29, 2002
 ------------------------------------------------
               (Allan W. Fulkerson)


               /s/ WALTER J. LACK*                                Director                March 29, 2002
 ------------------------------------------------
                 (Walter J. Lack)


             /s/ STEPHEN J. LOCKWOOD*                    Director and Vice Chairman       March 29, 2002
 ------------------------------------------------
              (Stephen J. Lockwood)


             /s/ JOHN N. MOLBECK, JR.                  Director, President and Chief      March 29, 2002
 ------------------------------------------------            Operating Officer
              (John N. Molbeck, Jr.)


 *By:            /s/ JOHN N. MOLBECK, JR.                                                 March 29, 2002
        -----------------------------------------
                  John N. Molbeck, Jr.,
                     Attorney-in-fact
</Table>

                                        54
<PAGE>

            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES

<Table>
<S>                                                            <C>
Report of Independent Accountants...........................   F-1
Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2001 and 2000...   F-2
Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the three years
  ended December 31, 2001...................................   F-3
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the
  three years ended December 31, 2001.......................   F-4
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
  for the three years ended December 31, 2001...............   F-5
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years
  ended December 31, 2001...................................   F-6
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................   F-7

SCHEDULES:
Report of Independent Accountants on Financial Statement
  Schedules.................................................   S-1
Schedule 1  Summary of Investments other than Investments in
  Related Parties...........................................   S-2
Schedule 2  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant...   S-3
Schedule 3  Supplementary Insurance Information.............   S-8
Schedule 4  Reinsurance.....................................   S-9
Schedule 5  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts...............   S-10
</Table>

     Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted because they are
either not required, not applicable, or the required information is shown in the
Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto or other Schedules.

                                        55
<PAGE>

                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS

     (Items denoted by a letter are incorporated by reference to other documents
previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as set forth at the
end of this index. Items not denoted by a letter are being filed herewith.)

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT
NUMBER
- -------
<C>       <S>  <C>
(A)3.1    --   Bylaws of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc., as amended.
(B)3.2    --   Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amendment of
               Certificate of Incorporation of HCC Insurance Holdings,
               Inc., filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on July 23,
               1996 and May 21, 1998, respectively.
(A)4.1    --   Specimen of Common Stock Certificate, $1.00 par value, of
               HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.
(C)10.1   --   Share Purchase Agreement dated January 29, 1999, among HCC
               Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Gerald Axel, Barry J. Cook,
               Gary J. Lockett, Christopher F.B. Mays, Mark E. Rattner,
               Marshall Rattner, Inc., John Smith and Keith W. Steed.
(D)10.2   --   Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of October 11, 1999
               among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc., Merger Sub of Delaware,
               Inc. and The Centris Group, Inc.
(E)10.3   --   Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January 19, 2001
               among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc., HCC Employee Benefits,
               Inc. and James Scott Schanen, Lisa Rae Schanen, Conor
               Schanen qsst, Austin Schanen qsst, Kevin Tolbert and Schanen
               Consulting Corporation.
(F)10.4   --   Loan Agreement ($300,000,000 Revolving Loan Facility) dated
               as of December 17, 1999 among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.;
               Wells Fargo Bank (Texas), National Association; Bank of
               America, N.A.; Bank of New York; Bank One, N.A.; First Union
               National Bank; and Dresdner Bank AG, New York and Grand
               Cayman Branches.
  10.5    --   Amendment to Loan Agreement dated as of August 11, 2000
               among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.; Wells Fargo Bank
               (Texas), National Association; First Union National Bank;
               Bank of America, N.A.; The Bank of New York; Bank One, N.A.;
               and Dresdner Bank AG, New York and Grand Cayman Branches.
  10.6    --   Second Amendment to Loan Agreement dated as of June 6, 2001
               among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.; Wells Fargo Bank
               (Texas), National Association; First Union National Bank;
               Bank of America, N.A.; and The Bank of New York.
(G)10.7   --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 1994 Nonemployee Director Stock
               Option Plan.
(I)10.8   --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 1992 Incentive Stock Option
               Plan, as amended and restated.
(I)10.9   --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 1995 Flexible Incentive Plan,
               as amended and restated.
(I)10.10  --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 1997 Flexible Incentive Plan,
               as amended and restated.
(I)10.11  --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 1996 Nonemployee Director Stock
               Option Plan, as amended and restated.
(J)10.12  --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 2001 Flexible Incentive Plan.
  10.13   --   Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement under the HCC
               Insurance Holdings, Inc. 2001 Flexible Incentive Plan.
(C)10.14  --   Employment Agreement effective as of January 1, 1999,
               between HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Stephen L. Way.
(H)10.15  --   Employment Agreement effective as of January 5, 2000,
               between HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and John N. Molbeck,
               Jr.
(E)10.16  --   Employment Agreement effective as of January 5, 2000,
               between HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Benjamin D. Wilcox.
(E)10.17  --   Employment Agreement effective as of January 5, 2000,
               between HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Frank J. Bramanti.
  10.18   --   Employment Agreement effective as of January 1, 2002,
               between HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Edward H. Ellis,
               Jr.
</Table>

                                        56
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT
NUMBER
- -------
<C>       <S>  <C>
  10.19   --   Employment Agreement effective as of October 1, 2000 between
               HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Christopher L. Martin as
               amended effective as of January 1, 2002.
  12      --   Statement Regarding Computation of Ratios
  21      --   Subsidiaries of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.
  23      --   Consent of Independent Accountants -PricewaterhouseCoopers
               LLP dated March 29, 2002.
  24      --   Powers of Attorney
</Table>

- ---------------
(A)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-48737) filed
     October 27, 1992.

(B)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-61687) filed
     August 17, 1998.

(C)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1999.

(D)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Schedule 14D-1 Tender Offer Statement in respect to shares of The Centris
     Group, Inc. filed October 18, 1999.

(E)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000.

(F)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Form 8-K filed December 20, 1999.

(G)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 33-94472) filed July
     11, 1995.

(H) Incorporated by reference to Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s Form
    10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2000.

(I)  Incorporated by reference to Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999.

(J)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Definitive Proxy Statement for the May 24, 2001 Annual Meeting of
     Shareholders filed April 26, 2001.

                                        57
<PAGE>

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.

     In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the
related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, changes in
shareholders' equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2001, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     As discussed in Note 1, effective January 1, 2000 the Company changed its
method of revenue recognition for certain contracts as prescribed by the
Securities and Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 entitled
"Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements".

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Houston, Texas
March 19, 2002

                                       F-1
<PAGE>

                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                   DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -----------------------
                                                                 2001         2000
                                                              ----------   ----------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
                                       ASSETS
Investments:
  Fixed income securities, at market (cost: 2001 $513,674;
     2000 $422,821).........................................  $  525,428   $  433,844
  Marketable equity securities, at market (cost: 2001
     $16,431; 2000 $8,896)..................................      16,569        6,282
  Short-term investments, at cost, which approximates
     market.................................................     338,904      263,805
  Other investments, at estimated fair value (cost: 2001
     $8,007; 2000 $7,182)...................................       7,565        7,182
                                                              ----------   ----------
       Total investments....................................     888,466      711,113
Cash........................................................      16,891       13,991
Restricted cash and cash investments........................     138,545      101,738
Premium, claims and other receivables.......................     665,965      609,716
Reinsurance recoverables....................................     899,128      789,412
Ceded unearned premium......................................      71,140      114,469
Ceded life and annuity benefits.............................      83,013       86,760
Deferred policy acquisition costs...........................      32,071       39,108
Property and equipment, net.................................      52,486       39,438
Goodwill and intangible assets..............................     328,815      266,015
Other assets................................................      42,600       18,995
                                                              ----------   ----------
       Total assets.........................................  $3,219,120   $2,790,755
                                                              ==========   ==========

                                     LIABILITIES
Loss and loss adjustment expense payable....................  $1,130,748   $  944,117
Life and annuity policy benefits............................      83,013       86,760
Reinsurance balances payable................................      88,637      130,746
Unearned premium............................................     179,530      190,550
Deferred ceding commissions.................................      16,681       30,013
Premium and claims payable..................................     717,159      617,847
Notes payable...............................................     181,928      212,133
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities....................      57,971       47,659
                                                              ----------   ----------
       Total liabilities....................................   2,455,667    2,259,825
Shareholders' Equity
  Common stock, $1.00 par value; 250.0 million shares
     authorized; (shares issued and outstanding: 2001
     61,438; 2000 51,342)...................................      61,438       51,342
  Additional paid-in capital................................     402,089      196,999
  Retained earnings.........................................     293,426      277,876
  Accumulated other comprehensive income....................       6,500        4,713
                                                              ----------   ----------
       Total shareholders' equity...........................     763,453      530,930
                                                              ----------   ----------
       Total liabilities and shareholders' equity...........  $3,219,120   $2,790,755
                                                              ==========   ==========
</Table>

                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                       F-2
<PAGE>

                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------------------
                                                                2001        2000        1999
                                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>         <C>
REVENUE
Net earned premium..........................................  $342,787    $267,647    $141,362
Management fees.............................................    61,795      96,058      90,713
Commission income...........................................    43,412      49,886      58,233
Net investment income.......................................    39,638      39,836      30,946
Net realized investment gain (loss).........................       393      (5,321)     (4,164)
Other operating income......................................    17,436      25,497      28,475
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     Total revenue..........................................   505,461     473,603     345,565
EXPENSE
Loss and loss adjustment expense, net.......................   267,390     198,470     109,650
Operating expense:
  Policy acquisition costs, net.............................    27,923      23,743       8,177
  Compensation expense......................................    69,762      83,086      79,196
  Provision for reinsurance.................................        --          --      43,462
  Other operating expense...................................    71,119      53,274      53,273
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     Total operating expense................................   168,804     160,103     184,108
Interest expense............................................     8,884      20,347      12,964
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     Total expense..........................................   445,078     378,920     306,722
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     Earnings before income tax provision...................    60,383      94,683      38,843
Income tax provision........................................    30,186      37,202      12,271
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     Earnings before cumulative effect of accounting
       change...............................................    30,197      57,481      26,572
Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of deferred tax
  effect of $1,335..........................................        --      (2,013)         --
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     NET EARNINGS...........................................  $ 30,197    $ 55,468    $ 26,572
                                                              ========    ========    ========
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE DATA:
     Earnings before accounting change......................  $   0.52    $   1.13    $   0.53
     Cumulative effect of accounting change.................        --       (0.04)         --
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     Net earnings...........................................  $   0.52    $   1.09    $   0.53
                                                              ========    ========    ========
     Weighted average shares outstanding....................    58,321      50,742      50,058
                                                              ========    ========    ========
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE DATA:
     Earnings before accounting change......................  $   0.51    $   1.11    $   0.52
     Cumulative effect of accounting change.................        --       (0.04)         --
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     Net earnings...........................................  $   0.51    $   1.07    $   0.52
                                                              ========    ========    ========
     Weighted average shares outstanding....................    59,619      51,619      50,646
                                                              ========    ========    ========
</Table>

                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                       F-3
<PAGE>

                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------------------
                                                                2001        2000        1999
                                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>         <C>
Net earnings................................................   $30,197     $55,468     $26,572
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:
  Foreign currency translation adjustment...................      (279)       (172)        167
  Gain in fair value of foreign currency forward contracts
     recorded as a cash flow hedge, net of income tax charge
     of $13.................................................        24          --          --
  Investment gains (losses):
     Investment gains (losses) during the year, net of
       income tax charge (benefit) of $1,137 in 2001, $2,386
       in 2000, and $(8,042) in 1999........................     2,297       4,118     (15,271)
     Less reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses
       included in net earnings, net of income tax (charge)
       benefit of $(138) in 2001, $1,862 in 2000, and $1,457
       in 1999..............................................      (255)      3,459       2,707
                                                               -------     -------     -------
  Other comprehensive income (loss).........................     1,787       7,405     (12,397)
                                                               -------     -------     -------
     COMPREHENSIVE INCOME...................................   $31,984     $62,873     $14,175
                                                               =======     =======     =======
</Table>

                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                       F-4
<PAGE>

                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                      ACCUMULATED
                                                             ADDITIONAL                  OTHER           TOTAL
                                                   COMMON     PAID-IN     RETAINED   COMPREHENSIVE   SHAREHOLDERS'
                                                    STOCK     CAPITAL     EARNINGS   INCOME (LOSS)      EQUITY
                                                   -------   ----------   --------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                                <C>       <C>          <C>        <C>             <C>
BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1998..................  $49,249    $161,106    $220,370     $  9,705        $440,430
Net earnings.....................................      --           --      26,572           --          26,572
Other comprehensive income (loss)................      --           --          --      (12,397)        (12,397)
506 shares of common stock issued for exercise of
  options, including tax benefit of $1,156.......     506        4,277          --           --           4,783
101 shares of common stock issued for purchased
  companies......................................     101        1,899          --           --           2,000
414 shares of common stock contractually issuable
  in the future..................................      --        8,271          --           --           8,271
Dividends to shareholders of pooled company prior
  to acquisition.................................      --           --      (1,005)          --          (1,005)
Cash dividends declared, $0.20 per share.........      --           --      (9,733)          --          (9,733)
Contractual adjustments to previous
  acquisitions...................................     (20)        (190)       (272)          --            (482)
                                                   -------    --------    --------     --------        --------
BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1999..................  49,836      175,363     235,932       (2,692)        458,439
Net earnings.....................................      --           --      55,468           --          55,468
Other comprehensive income.......................      --           --          --        7,405           7,405
1,267 shares of common stock issued for exercise
  of options, including tax benefit of $3,627....   1,266       19,596          --           --          20,862
Issuance of 145 shares of contractually issuable
  common stock...................................     145         (145)         --           --              --
Issuance of 95 shares of contingently issuable
  common stock...................................      95        1,145          --           --           1,240
Contractual grant of pooled company common stock
  by a shareholder prior to acquisition..........      --        1,040          --           --           1,040
Dividends to shareholders of pooled company prior
  to acquisition.................................      --           --      (2,593)          --          (2,593)
Cash dividends declared, $0.22 per share.........      --           --     (10,931)          --         (10,931)
                                                   -------    --------    --------     --------        --------
BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2000..................  51,342      196,999     277,876        4,713         530,930
Net earnings.....................................      --           --      30,197           --          30,197
Other comprehensive income.......................      --           --          --        1,787           1,787
6,900 shares of common stock issued in public
  offering, net of costs.........................   6,900      145,505          --           --         152,405
2,715 shares of common stock issued upon exercise
  of options including income tax benefit of
  $12,312........................................   2,715       50,023          --           --          52,738
300 shares of common stock issued for purchased
  companies......................................     300        8,031          --           --           8,331
Issuance of 114 shares of contractually issuable
  common stock...................................     114         (114)         --           --              --
Issuance of 67 shares of contingently issuable
  common stock...................................      67        1,645          --           --           1,712
Cash dividends declared, $0.245 per share........      --           --     (14,647)          --         (14,647)
                                                   -------    --------    --------     --------        --------
BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2001..................  $61,438    $402,089    $293,426     $  6,500        $763,453
                                                   =======    ========    ========     ========        ========
</Table>

                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                       F-5
<PAGE>

                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                            ---------------------------------
                                                              2001        2000        1999
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                                         <C>         <C>         <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net earnings............................................  $  30,197   $  55,468   $  26,572
  Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash
     provided by operating activities:
     Change in premium, claims and other receivables......    (33,976)     30,501     (92,206)
     Change in reinsurance recoverables...................   (191,552)    (52,007)   (284,504)
     Change in ceded unearned premium.....................     28,254      19,188      31,408
     Change in loss and loss adjustment expense payable...    262,056      72,311     264,360
     Change in reinsurance balances payable...............    (29,837)     17,052     (15,098)
     Change in unearned premium...........................     (1,676)      2,689     (31,138)
     Change in premium and claims payable, net of
       restricted cash....................................     22,530     (20,727)    102,114
     Gains on sales of other operating investments........     (8,171)     (5,739)     (5,523)
     Provision for reinsurance............................         --          --      43,462
     Depreciation, amortization and impairments...........     34,926      19,908      13,420
     Other, net...........................................     (7,011)       (820)     (9,693)
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
       Cash provided by operating activities..............    105,740     137,824      43,174
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Sales of fixed income securities........................    140,763     137,175     131,485
  Maturity or call of fixed income securities.............     45,754      34,341      17,050
  Sales of equity securities..............................      5,408       7,969       2,886
  Dispositions of other operating investments.............     19,965      27,803      15,905
  Change in short-term investments........................    (43,986)    (69,400)    (14,935)
  Cash paid for companies acquired, net of cash
     received.............................................    (95,952)     (8,909)   (186,923)
  Cost of investments acquired............................   (292,926)   (244,586)    (70,736)
  Purchase of property and equipment and other............    (12,283)     (9,535)     (9,114)
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
       Cash used by investing activities..................   (233,257)   (125,142)   (114,382)
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from notes payable, net of costs...............    174,058      26,700     547,000
  Sale of common stock, net of costs......................    192,831      17,235       3,627
  Payments on notes payable...............................   (222,116)    (57,042)   (458,600)
  Dividends paid..........................................    (14,356)    (12,409)    (10,226)
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
       Cash provided (used) by financing activities.......    130,417     (25,516)     81,801
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
       Net change in cash.................................      2,900     (12,834)     10,593
       Cash as of beginning of year.......................     13,991      26,825      16,232
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
       Cash as of end of year.............................  $  16,891   $  13,991   $  26,825
                                                            =========   =========   =========
</Table>

                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                       F-6
<PAGE>

                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

(1)  GENERAL INFORMATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING POLICIES

     HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("we" or "our"), include
domestic and foreign property and casualty and life insurance companies,
underwriting agencies and intermediaries. Through our subsidiaries, we provide
specialized property and casualty and life and health insurance to commercial
customers in the areas of life, accident and health; general aviation; marine,
energy and property; and other specialty lines of insurance. Our principal
insurance companies are Houston Casualty Company in Houston, Texas, and London,
England; HCC Life Insurance Company in Houston, Texas; U.S. Specialty Insurance
Company in Houston, Texas; and Avemco Insurance Company in Frederick, Maryland.
Our underwriting agencies provide underwriting management and claims servicing
for insurance and reinsurance companies, in specialized lines of business within
the life, accident and health and property and casualty areas. Our principal
agencies are HCC Benefits Corporation in Atlanta, Georgia, Costa Mesa,
California, Wakefield, Massachusetts, Minneapolis, Minnesota and Dallas, Texas;
ASU International, LLC in Woburn, Massachusetts, and London, England; and
Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc. in Mount Kisco, New York. Effective January
1, 2001 and 2002, we consolidated the operations of three and one of our
agencies, respectively, with certain of our insurance companies. Our
intermediaries provide brokerage, consulting and other intermediary services to
insurance and reinsurance companies, commercial customers and individuals in the
same lines of business as the insurance companies and underwriting agencies
operate. Our principal intermediaries are HCC Intermediaries, Inc. in Houston,
Texas; HCC Employee Benefits, Inc. in Houston, Texas and Atlanta, Georgia; and
Rattner Mackenzie Limited in London, England. During 2001, we sold the last of
our service operations. Our service companies performed various insurance
related services for insurance companies.

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States requires us to make
estimates and assumptions. This affects amounts reported in our financial
statements and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

     A description of the significant accounting and reporting policies we
utilize in preparing our consolidated financial statements is as follows:

  Principles of Consolidation

     Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all our
subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation. Our consolidated financial statements have been
restated for all periods presented to include the accounts and operations of a
group of companies acquired on January 19, 2001 in a transaction accounted for
using the pooling-of-interests method of accounting. (See Note 2.)

  Investments

     Fixed income securities and marketable equity securities are classified as
available for sale and are carried at quoted market value, if readily
marketable, or at management's estimated fair value, if not readily marketable.
The change in unrealized gain or loss with respect to these securities is
recorded as a component of other comprehensive income, net of the related
deferred income tax effects, if any. Fixed income securities available for sale
are purchased with the original intent to hold to maturity, but they may be
available for sale if market conditions warrant, or if our investment policies
dictate, in order to maximize our investment yield. Short-term investments and
restricted short-term investments are carried at cost, which approximates market
value.

     For the asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities portion of the fixed
income portfolio, we recognize income using a constant effective yield based on
anticipated prepayments and the estimated economic life of

                                       F-7
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

the securities. When actual prepayments differ significantly from anticipated
prepayments, the estimated economic life is recalculated and the remaining
unamortized premium or discount is amortized prospectively over the remaining
economic life. Some of our asset-backed securities are subject to re-evaluation
and additional specialized impairment tests. Under this guidance, these
securities have to be written down in value if certain tests are met. Any write
down is recouped prospectively through net investment income. The total amount
of securities held by us as of December 31, 2001 that would be subject to these
tests and potential write downs is immaterial.

     The realized gain or loss on investment transactions is determined on an
average cost basis and included in earnings on the trade date. When impairment
of the value of an investment is considered other than temporary, the decrease
in value is reported in earnings as a realized investment loss and a new cost
basis is established.

  Property and Equipment

     Property and equipment are carried at cost, net of accumulated
depreciation. Depreciation expense is provided using the straight-line method
over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Amortization of leasehold
improvements is provided using the straight-line method over the shorter of the
estimated useful life or the term of the respective lease. Upon disposal of
assets, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the
accounts and the resulting gain or loss is included in earnings.

     Costs incurred in developing or purchasing management information systems
are capitalized and included in property and equipment. These costs are
amortized over their estimated useful lives from the dates the systems are
placed in service.

  Earned Premium, Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Ceding Commissions

     All of the property and casualty policies written by our insurance
companies qualify as short-duration contracts as defined by current accounting
literature. Written premium, net of reinsurance, is primarily included in
earnings on a pro rata basis over the lives of the related policies. However,
for certain types of business, it is recognized over the period of risk in
proportion to the amount of insurance risk provided. Policy acquisition costs,
including commissions, taxes, fees and other direct costs of underwriting
policies, less ceding commissions allowed by reinsurers, including expense
allowances, are deferred and charged or credited to earnings proportionate to
the premium earned. Historical and current loss and loss adjustment expense
experience and anticipated investment income are considered in determining
premium deficiencies and the recoverability of deferred policy acquisition
costs.

  Management Fees and Commission Income

     When there is no significant future servicing obligation, management fees
and commission income from our underwriting agencies and intermediaries,
respectively, are recognized on the revenue recognition date, which is the later
of the effective date of policy, the date when the premium can be reasonably
established, or the date when substantially all the services relating to the
insurance placement have been rendered to the client. Profit commissions based
upon the profitability of business written are recorded as revenue at the end of
each accounting period based upon the respective formula calculation. Such
amounts are adjusted should experience change. When additional services are
required, the service revenue is deferred and recognized over the service
period. We also record an allowance for estimated return commissions which may
be required to be paid upon the early termination of policies.

     Effective January 1, 2000, we changed certain of our revenue recognition
methods for our agencies and intermediaries to agree with guidance contained in
Securities and Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 entitled
"Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements." Previously, our agencies and

                                       F-8
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

intermediaries recognized revenue in conformity with principles that
historically had been considered generally accepted accounting principles for
insurance agents and brokers. We had recognized return commissions when the
event occurred that caused the return and accrued a liability for future
servicing costs, when significant, instead of deferring revenue. The after-tax
cumulative non-cash charge resulting from the adoption of Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 101 was $2.0 million. The effect of the change was not material to
earnings before cumulative effect of accounting change for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 or 1999.

  Other Operating Revenue

     Historically, we have had two primary sources of other operating revenue,
which are included in our other operations segment. The first source is a
variety of insurance related services, principally claims adjusting services.
This source is not expected to be significant in future years as our last
remaining service subsidiary was sold in September, 2001. These revenues are
recorded when the service is performed. The second source is income from and
gains or losses from the disposition of investments made in this segment. The
income is recognized as earned and the gains or losses from the sale of
investments are recognized upon consummation of a sale transaction.

  Premium and Other Receivables

     We use the gross method for reporting receivables and payables on brokered
transactions. We review the collectibility of our receivables on a current basis
and provide an allowance for doubtful accounts if we deem that there are
accounts which are doubtful of collection. The amount of the allowance as of
December 31, 2001 and 2000 was $2.8 million and $3.3 million, respectively. Our
estimate of the level of the allowance could change as conditions change in the
future.

  Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Payable

     Loss and loss adjustment expense payable by our insurance companies is
based on estimates of payments to be made for reported and incurred but not
reported losses and anticipated receipts from salvage and subrogation receipts.
Reserves are recorded on an undiscounted basis, except for an immaterial amount
of reserves acquired in a transaction recorded using the purchase method of
accounting. Estimates for reported losses are based on all available
information, including reports received from ceding companies on assumed
business. Estimates for incurred but not reported losses are based both on our
experience and the industry's experience. While we believe that amounts included
in our financial statements are adequate, such estimates may be more or less
than the amounts ultimately paid when the claims are settled. We continually
review the estimates with our actuaries and any changes are reflected in the
period of the change.

  Reinsurance

     We record all reinsurance recoverables and ceded unearned premiums as
assets and deferred ceding commissions as a liability. All such amounts are
recorded in a manner consistent with the underlying reinsured contracts. We also
record a reserve for uncollectible reinsurance. Our estimates utilized to
calculate the reserve are subject to change and this could affect the level of
the reserve required.

  Goodwill and Intangible Assets

     In connection with our acquisition of subsidiaries prior to July 1, 2001,
accounted for as purchases, the excess of cost over fair value of net assets
acquired is being amortized using the straight-line method over periods from
twenty to forty years. Goodwill resulting from acquisitions completed on or
after July 1, 2001 is not being amortized in accordance with new accounting
pronouncements. Other identified intangible assets are amortized over their
respective useful lives. Accumulated amortization of goodwill and intangible
assets as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, was $37.9 million and $24.9 million,
respectively.
                                       F-9
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

     Our current accounting policy regarding the assessment of the
recoverability of the carrying value of long-lived assets, including goodwill
and other intangibles and property and equipment, is to review the carrying
value of the assets if the facts and circumstances suggest that they may be
impaired. If this review indicates that the carrying value will not be
recoverable, as determined based on projected undiscounted future cash flows,
the carrying value is reduced to its estimated fair value. Amortization of
goodwill and intangible assets charged to income for the years ended December
31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 was $13.0 million, $13.0 million and $6.7 million,
respectively. During 2001, we also recorded a charge of $15.0 million for
impairment of goodwill related to an operation being exited.

  Cash and Short-term Investments

     Cash consists of cash in banks, generally in operating accounts. We
classify certificates of deposit, corporate demand notes receivable, commercial
paper and money market funds as short-term investments. Short-term investments
are classified as investments in our consolidated balance sheets as they relate
principally to our investment activities.

     As of December 31, 2001 and 2000 we included $189.2 million and $158.3
million, respectively, of certain fiduciary funds in short-term investments.
These are funds held by underwriting agencies or intermediaries for the benefit
of insurance or reinsurance clients. We earn the interest on these funds.

     We generally maintain our cash deposits in major banks and invest our
short-term investments in institutional money-market funds and in investment
grade commercial paper and repurchase agreements. These securities typically
mature within ninety days and, therefore, bear minimal risk. We have not
experienced any losses on our cash deposits or our short-term investments.

  Restricted Cash and Cash Investments

     Our agencies withhold premium funds for the payment of claims. These funds
are shown as restricted cash and cash investments in our consolidated balance
sheets. The corresponding liability is included within premium and claims
payable in our consolidated balance sheets. These amounts are considered
fiduciary funds and interest earned on these funds accrues to the benefit of the
insurance companies for whom the agencies write business. Therefore, we do not
include these amounts as cash in our consolidated statements of cash flows.

  Foreign Currency

     The functional currency of most foreign subsidiaries and branches is the
U.S. Dollar. Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies are
translated into U.S. Dollars at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet
date. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange
in effect on the date the transaction occurs. Transaction gains and losses are
recorded in earnings and included in other operating expenses. Our foreign
currency transactions are principally denominated in British Pound Sterling and
other European currencies. For the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,
the gain (loss) from currency conversion was $0.3 million, $(0.3) million and
$0.4 million, respectively.

     A foreign branch of one subsidiary has a functional currency of Canadian
Dollars. The cumulative translation adjustment, representing the effect of
translating this branch's assets and liabilities into U.S. Dollars, is included
in the foreign currency translation adjustment within accumulated other
comprehensive income.

     To the extent the foreign exchange forward contracts qualify for hedge
accounting treatment, the gain (immaterial as of December 31, 2001), or loss due
to changes in fair value is not recognized in our statement of earnings until
realized, at which time the gain or loss is recognized along with the offsetting
loss or gain on the hedged item. To the extent the foreign currency forward
contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting
                                       F-10
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

treatment, the gain or loss due to changes in fair value is recognized in our
consolidated statements of earnings, but is generally offset by changes in value
of the underlying exposure.

  Income Tax

     We file a consolidated Federal income tax return and include the foreign
subsidiaries' income to the extent required by law. Deferred income tax is
accounted for using the liability method, which reflects the tax impact of
temporary differences between the bases of assets and liabilities for financial
reporting purposes and such bases as measured by tax laws and regulations. Due
to our history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and taxable income
in carry back years, we expect to be able to fully realize the benefit of our
net deferred tax asset.

  Earnings Per Share

     Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding during the year divided into net earnings. Diluted earnings
per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
plus the potential common shares outstanding during the year divided into net
earnings. Outstanding common stock options, when dilutive, are considered to be
potential common stock for the purpose of the diluted calculation. The treasury
stock method is used to calculate potential common stock outstanding due to
options.

     Contingent shares to be issued are included in the earnings per share
computation when the underlying conditions for issuance have been met.

  Guarantee Fund and Other Assessments

     Certain of our insurance companies are subject to guarantee fund and other
assessments in states where we are licensed. In some cases, the states allow for
recoveries of assessments as premium tax offsets, but only over a period of
years. We generally accrue the liability when an insolvency or other event
occurs that indicates a liability exists and the premium on which the assessment
will be based has been written. We recognize an asset for the premium tax offset
based on in-force policies. During the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and
1999, we incurred a net expense for guarantee fund and other assessments of $4.5
million, $1.0 million and $0.3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2001
and 2000, accrued guarantee fund and other assessments were $2.2 million and
$0.2 million, respectively, and recognized future premium tax offsets were $0.8
million and $0.0 million, respectively.

  Effects of Recent Accounting Pronouncements

     We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133
entitled "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities"
effective January 1, 2001. The cumulative effect adjustment due to this change
in accounting is not material to our financial position, results of operations
or cash flows. Since we utilize HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Subsidiaries
derivatives or hedging strategies on a limited basis, we do not expect the
adoption of SFAS No. 133 to be material on an ongoing basis.

     SFAS No. 141 entitled "Business Combinations" was issued in June, 2001 and
became effective July 1, 2001. SFAS No. 141 requires that all business
combinations be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, which
requires that acquisitions be recorded at fair value as of the date of
acquisition. The pooling-of-interests method of accounting allowed under prior
standards, which reflected business combinations using historical financial
information, is now prohibited.

     SFAS No. 142 entitled "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" was also
issued in June, 2001, in concert with SFAS No. 141. SFAS No. 142 becomes
effective for us on January 1, 2002. SFAS No. 142 requires goodwill to be tested
for impairment at a level referred to as a reporting unit, which could be either
our
                                       F-11
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

reportable segments or one level lower than our reportable segments. SFAS No.
142 requires us to perform the first goodwill impairment test on all reporting
units within six months of adoption. The first step is to compare the fair value
with the book value of a reporting unit. If the fair value of a reporting unit
is less than its book value, the second step will be to calculate the impairment
loss, if any. We will recognize any impairment loss from the initial adoption of
SFAS No. 142 as a change in accounting principle. After the initial adoption,
goodwill of a reporting unit will be tested for impairment on an annual basis
and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would
more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its
carrying amount. SFAS No. 142 is not expected to have a material effect on our
financial position or cash flows, but it will impact our results of operations.
Based upon our preliminary review of the impact of SFAS No. 142 to determine the
effect, if any, of the initial goodwill impairment testing, we do not believe
that we will have to record an impairment charge. However, we are still in the
process of completing the valuations, so our tentative conclusion could change.

     SFAS No. 142 also requires the discontinuance of the amortization of
goodwill effective January 1, 2002 and that goodwill recognized for acquisitions
which were consummated after July 1, 2001 not be amortized. Amortization of
goodwill charged to operations, net of tax effect, in 2001, 2000 and 1999 was
$11.0 million, $11.5 million and $5.5 million, respectively. We did not amortize
the goodwill related to our acquisitions consummated in October 2001.

     SFAS No. 144 entitled "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets" was issued in August, 2001 and will become effective for us
on January 1, 2002. SFAS No. 144 resolves implementation issues being
experienced under previously existing accounting literature but does not change
previous requirements to (a) recognize an impairment loss if the carrying amount
for an asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows, and (b)
measure the impairment loss as the difference between carrying amount and fair
value of the asset. SFAS No. 144 also retains the basic provisions of
discontinued operations found in previous accounting literature but broadens the
separate income statement presentation of discontinued operations from a
reporting segment to a component of the entity which has clearly distinguishable
operations and cash flows. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 144 to have
a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.

  Unusual Loss Events

     During 2001, we experienced three significant gross losses. The largest
loss was as a result of the terrorist attacks on September 11, which produced
the biggest loss to our insurance company operations in our history. Although we
had no involvement in the insurance coverages of the airlines involved, we had
significant exposure in our accident and health reinsurance account. Our
estimates of ultimate exposure were developed through a review of policy
coverages, consideration of the effect on the estimate if the attacks were
considered multiple events rather than a single event and communications from
our clients and producers. We also have participations in property coverage on
the World Trade Center and some of the surrounding buildings. In addition, we
anticipate some claims from other business written in the New York City area. We
also received some reported claims and estimates of losses for others. We have
utilized this information together with known coverage and reinstatement premium
information to establish our gross and net losses reserve of $141.0 million and
$35.0 million, respectively. A charge for the net amount has been included in
our 2001 consolidated financial statements. We continue to monitor the reserve
and believe our estimates to be reasonable, but they may be subject to
adjustment as we receive additional information, which could take several years
to finalize. In addition, we have reviewed the estimated reinsurance
recoverables related to this loss and believe that they are collectible in the
normal course of business. Over 95% of the total amount of reinsurance
recoverables from this loss are due from 38 companies and Lloyds' syndicates,
each of which is rated "A-" or better by either A.M. Best Company, Inc. or
Moody's Investors Services, Inc. The other two losses were the Petrobras
(Brazilian offshore energy production platform) and Total (chemical factory near
Toulouse, France) incidents, which produced gross losses of $55.0 million and
$49.0 million, respectively.
                                       F-12
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

Because these policies were substantially reinsured, the net losses were not
material to our results of operations. The Petrobras loss was paid during the
third quarter of 2001 and all reinsurance recoverables related to it have been
collected. We expect the reinsurance recoverables related to the Total loss to
be collected in due course once the original claim is settled.

  Other Information

     During 2001, we recorded a charge totaling $37.3 million related to lines
of business that we are exiting, mainly our primary workers' compensation line
of business. The composition of this charge is $18.8 million for loss and loss
adjustment expense, $2.2 million for net policy acquisition costs and $16.3
million for other operating expense. Included in other operating expense is
$15.0 million related to the impairment of goodwill associated with the primary
workers' compensation line of business. The fair value of this line of business
was calculated based upon the present value of future expected cash flows.

  Reclassifications

     Certain amounts in the 2000 and 1999 consolidated financial statements have
been reclassified to conform with the 2001 presentation. Such reclassifications
had no effect on our shareholders' equity, net earnings or cash flows.

(2)  ACQUISITIONS

  Pooling-of-Interests

     On January 19, 2001, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Schanen
Consulting Corporation and its operating subsidiary, The Schanen Consulting
Group, LLC, which provides employee benefit consulting and retail insurance
intermediary services. Consideration given was approximately 1.0 million shares
of our common stock. This business combination has been recorded using the
pooling-of-interests method of accounting. Our consolidated financial statements
have been restated to include the accounts and operations of The Schanen
Consulting Group, LLC for all periods presented. The table below shows revenue
and net earnings of the entities being combined for the two years ended December
31, 2000:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2000       1999
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Revenue:
  Amounts as previously reported............................  $466,167   $341,871
  The Schanen Consulting Group, Inc.........................     7,436      3,694
                                                              --------   --------
          Restated total revenue............................  $473,603   $345,565
                                                              ========   ========
Net earnings:
  Amounts as previously reported............................  $ 53,431   $ 25,123
  The Schanen Consulting Group, Inc.........................     2,037      1,449
                                                              --------   --------
          Restated net earnings.............................  $ 55,468   $ 26,572
                                                              ========   ========
</Table>

  Purchase Acquisitions

     During 2001, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares
of two specialty underwriting agencies: ASU International, LLC. and Marshall
Rattner, Inc., which is the holding company for Professional Indemnity Agency,
Inc. These business combinations have been recorded using the purchase method of
accounting. The agencies, which were established in 1982 and 1977, respectively,
are recognized as leaders in their respective lines of business and were
acquired to expand our agency operations and diversify into new specialty lines.
They both have a long and profitable history, a market leadership position and
workforces with

                                       F-13
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

significant expertise and reputation to justify the goodwill recorded. The
results of operations of these businesses have been included in our consolidated
financial statements beginning on the effective date of each transaction. The
following table provides some additional information on these transactions as
well as the acquisitions during 1999 that were recorded using the purchase
method of accounting:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                              CONSIDERATION
                                      -----------------------------                                      GOODWILL
                                       SHARES OF                                         GOODWILL     DEDUCTIBLE FOR
                          EFFECTIVE       OUR                            GOODWILL      AMORTIZATION     INCOME TAX
                             DATE     COMMON STOCK        CASH          RECOGNIZED        PERIOD         PURPOSES
                          ----------  ------------   --------------   --------------   ------------   --------------
<S>                       <C>         <C>            <C>              <C>              <C>            <C>
ASU International LLC     10/30/2001           --    $ 29.2 million   $ 23.7 million           --          Yes
Professional Indemnity
  Agency, Inc.            10/22/2001  0.3 million      63.0 million     53.6 million           --           No
The Centris Group, Inc.   12/31/1999           --     149.5 million    101.9 million     20 Years           No
Midwest Stop Loss
  Underwriting            01/28/1999  0.1 million       3.0 million      4.8 million     20 Years          Yes
Rattner Mackenzie
  Limited                 01/01/1999  0.4 million      64.6 million     70.8 million     30 Years           No
</Table>

     The value of our common stock given as consideration was determined based
on closing market price on the days the acquisitions were completed. In
addition, we will pay up to a maximum of $20.4 million with respect to one of
the acquisitions made during 2001 if certain earnings targets are reached during
2002 through 2004. Any such contingent consideration paid will be recorded as an
increase to goodwill. We are still in the process of completing the purchase
price allocations for the 2001 acquisitions, as we are still gathering some of
the information needed to make the required calculations. Any subsequent net
adjustment will result in a change to recorded goodwill.

     The following table summarizes the combined estimated fair values of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed at the respective dates of acquisition:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2001       1999
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Total investments...........................................  $ 47,650   $142,794
Premium and other receivables...............................    30,506    134,167
Reinsurance recoverables....................................        --    122,771
Other policy related assets.................................        --    115,714
Goodwill and intangible assets..............................    83,957    181,721
All other assets............................................    33,710     29,813
                                                              --------   --------
          Total assets acquired.............................   195,823    726,980
Loss and loss adjustment expense payable....................        --    146,233
Premium and claims payable..................................    44,883    145,860
Other policy related liabilities............................        --    156,703
Notes payable...............................................    12,735     25,000
All other liabilities.......................................    37,724     26,029
                                                              --------   --------
          Total liabilities.................................    95,342    499,825
                                                              --------   --------
          Net assets acquired...............................  $100,481   $227,155
                                                              ========   ========
</Table>

                                       F-14
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

     Identified intangible assets from the two acquisitions of 2001 consisted of
the following:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                               AVERAGE
                                                        VALUE ASSIGNED   AMORTIZATION PERIOD
                                                        --------------   -------------------
<S>                                                     <C>              <C>
Employment and non-compete agreements.................      $3,222             3 years
Other contractual items...............................       3,505             5 years
                                                            ------             -------
          Total identified intangible assets..........      $6,727             4 years
                                                            ======             =======
</Table>

     The following unaudited pro forma summary presents information as if the
purchase acquisitions completed during 2001 had occurred at the beginning of
each year presented after giving effect to certain adjustments, including
amortization of goodwill and intangible assets, increased interest expense from
debt issued to fund the acquisitions and Federal income taxes. The pro forma
summary is for information purposes only, does not necessarily reflect the
actual results that would have occurred, nor is it necessarily indicative of
future results of the combined companies. Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc.
paid approximately $33.0 million in bonuses to employees and related employment
taxes immediately prior to the completion of the acquisition.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              FOR THE YEARS ENDED
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA INFORMATION                                 2001       2000
- -------------------------------                               --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Revenue.....................................................  $546,566   $516,162
Earnings before accounting change...........................    12,475     53,324
Net earnings................................................    12,475     51,311
Basic earnings per share before accounting change...........      0.21       1.04
Basic earnings per share....................................      0.21       1.01
Diluted earnings per share before accounting change.........      0.21       1.03
Diluted earnings per share..................................      0.21       0.99
</Table>

                                       F-15
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

(3)  INVESTMENTS

     Substantially all of our fixed income securities are investment grade; 98%
are rated "A" or better. The cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized gain or
loss and estimated market value of investments in fixed income and marketable
equity securities, all of which are classified as available for sale, are as
follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                      COST OR      GROSS        GROSS      ESTIMATED
                                                     AMORTIZED   UNREALIZED   UNREALIZED    MARKET
                                                       COST         GAIN         LOSS        VALUE
                                                     ---------   ----------   ----------   ---------
<S>                                                  <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
December 31, 2001:
Marketable equity securities.......................  $ 16,431     $   176      $   (38)    $ 16,569
US Treasury securities.............................    70,235       1,242         (109)      71,368
Obligations of states, municipalities and political
  subdivisions.....................................   200,790       5,513         (645)     205,658
Corporate fixed income securities..................   140,702       4,999         (416)     145,285
Asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities........    97,684       1,504         (560)      98,628
Foreign government securities......................     4,263         226           --        4,489
                                                     --------     -------      -------     --------
          TOTAL SECURITIES.........................  $530,105     $13,660      $(1,768)    $541,997
                                                     ========     =======      =======     ========
December 31, 2000:
Marketable equity securities.......................  $  8,896     $   264      $(2,878)    $  6,282
US Treasury securities.............................    71,155       1,482          (25)      72,612
Obligations of states, municipalities and political
  subdivisions.....................................   203,768       5,961         (414)     209,315
Corporate fixed income securities..................   100,881       3,008         (189)     103,700
Asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities........    39,722       1,183         (113)      40,792
Foreign government securities......................     7,295         132           (2)       7,425
                                                     --------     -------      -------     --------
          TOTAL SECURITIES.........................  $431,717     $12,030      $(3,621)    $440,126
                                                     ========     =======      =======     ========
</Table>

     The amortized cost and estimated market value of fixed income securities at
December 31, 2001, by contractual maturity, are shown below. Expected maturities
may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to
call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. The
weighted average life of our asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities is five
years.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                          ESTIMATED
                                                              AMORTIZED    MARKET
                                                                COST        VALUE
                                                              ---------   ---------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
Due in 1 year or less.......................................  $ 18,111    $ 18,416
Due after 1 year through 5 years............................   188,642     194,022
Due after 5 years through 10 years..........................    91,828      94,184
Due after 10 years through 15 years.........................    75,233      76,721
Due after 15 years..........................................    42,176      43,457
                                                              --------    --------
  Securities with fixed maturities..........................   415,990     426,800
Asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities.................    97,684      98,628
                                                              --------    --------
          TOTAL FIXED INCOME SECURITIES.....................  $513,674    $525,428
                                                              ========    ========
</Table>

                                       F-16
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

     As of December 31, 2001, our insurance companies had deposited fixed income
securities with an amortized cost of approximately $30.4 million (market: $31.2
million) to meet the deposit requirements of various insurance departments.

     All investments in fixed income securities and other investments were
income producing for the twelve months preceding December 31, 2001, except for
one security valued at $0.4 million and included in other investments. The
sources of net investment income for the three years ended December 31, 2001,
are detailed below:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           2001      2000      1999
                                                          -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Fixed income securities.................................  $27,234   $22,074   $20,098
Short-term investments..................................   12,789    18,085    10,928
Marketable equity securities............................      294        59        36
Other investments.......................................        4         4        --
                                                          -------   -------   -------
          Total investment income.......................   40,321    40,222    31,062
Investment expense......................................     (683)     (386)     (116)
                                                          -------   -------   -------
          NET INVESTMENT INCOME.........................  $39,638   $39,836   $30,946
                                                          =======   =======   =======
</Table>

     Realized pre-tax gain (loss) on the sale or write down of investments is as
follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            GAIN     LOSS       NET
                                                           ------   -------   -------
<S>                                                        <C>      <C>       <C>
For the year ended December 31, 2001:
Fixed income securities..................................  $3,099   $(1,452)  $ 1,647
Marketable equity securities.............................   1,224    (1,848)     (624)
Other investments........................................     145      (775)     (630)
                                                           ------   -------   -------
          REALIZED GAIN (LOSS)...........................  $4,468   $(4,075)  $   393
                                                           ======   =======   =======
For the year ended December 31, 2000:
Fixed income securities..................................  $1,173   $  (970)  $   203
Marketable equity securities.............................     567    (6,195)   (5,628)
Other investments........................................     104        --       104
                                                           ------   -------   -------
          REALIZED GAIN (LOSS)...........................  $1,844   $(7,165)  $(5,321)
                                                           ======   =======   =======
For the year ended December 31, 1999:
Fixed income securities..................................  $1,226   $(1,390)  $  (164)
Marketable equity securities.............................     450    (4,391)   (3,941)
Other investments........................................     120      (179)      (59)
                                                           ------   -------   -------
          REALIZED GAIN (LOSS)...........................  $1,796   $(5,960)  $(4,164)
                                                           ======   =======   =======
</Table>

                                       F-17
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

     Unrealized pre-tax net investment gains (losses) on investments for three
years ended December 31, 2001 are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           2001     2000       1999
                                                          ------   -------   --------
<S>                                                       <C>      <C>       <C>
Fixed income securities.................................  $  731   $11,916   $(19,024)
Marketable equity securities............................   2,752       (91)    (3,025)
Strategic operational investments.......................      --        --      2,900
Other investments.......................................    (442)       --         --
                                                          ------   -------   --------
          NET UNREALIZED INVESTMENT GAIN (LOSS).........  $3,041   $11,825   $(19,149)
                                                          ======   =======   ========
</Table>

(4)  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     The following table summarizes property and equipment at December 31, 2001
and 2000:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                           ESTIMATED
                                                     2001       2000      USEFUL LIFE
                                                   --------   --------   --------------
<S>                                                <C>        <C>        <C>
Buildings and improvements.......................  $ 25,773   $ 19,332   30 to 45 years
Furniture, fixtures and equipment................    22,974     17,516    3 to 20 years
Management information systems...................    40,874     34,078    3 to 10 years
                                                   --------   --------
          Total property and equipment...........    89,621     70,926
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization...   (37,135)   (31,488)
                                                   --------   --------
          PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET............  $ 52,486   $ 39,438
                                                   ========   ========
</Table>

     Depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment was
approximately $7.0 million, $6.9 million and $6.7 million for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

(5) NOTES PAYABLE

     Notes payable as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 are shown in the table
below. The estimated fair value of our 2% convertible notes ($185.9 million at
December 31, 2001) is based on its trading market value. For the remainder of
our notes payable, the estimated fair value is based on current rates offered to
us for debt with similar terms and conditions and approximates the carrying
value at both balance sheet dates.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2001       2000
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
2% Convertible notes........................................  $172,500   $     --
Bank facility...............................................        --    207,500
Mortgage note...............................................     2,325         --
Acquisition notes...........................................     3,365      4,633
Other short-term debt.......................................     3,738         --
                                                              --------   --------
          TOTAL NOTES PAYABLE...............................  $181,928   $212,133
                                                              ========   ========
</Table>

     On August 23, 2001, we issued an aggregate $172.5 million principal amount
of 2% Convertible Notes due 2021 in a public offering. Each $1,000 principal
amount of notes is convertible into 31.25 shares of our common stock, which
represents an initial conversion price of $32.00 per share. The initial
conversion price is subject to change under certain conditions. Interest is to
be paid by us on March 1 and September 1 each year. Holders may surrender notes
for conversion into shares of our common stock in any calendar quarter if, as of
the last day of the preceding calendar quarter, the closing sale price of our
common stock for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive
trading days ending on the last trading day of the quarter is more

                                       F-18
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

than 120% (currently $38.40 per share) of the conversion price per share of our
common stock on the last trading day of the quarter. We can redeem the notes for
cash at any time on or after September 1, 2006. Holders of the notes may require
us to repurchase the notes on September 1, 2002, 2004, 2006, 2008, 2011 and
2016. If the holders exercise this option, we may choose to pay the purchase
price in cash, in shares of our common stock, or a combination thereof. We paid
$4.4 million in underwriting discounts and expenses in connection with the
offering, which are being amortized from the issue date until September 1, 2002.
We used the proceeds from this offering to repay our remaining indebtedness
under the bank facility described below, assist in financing the recent
acquisitions, make a $60.0 million capital contribution to our principal
insurance company subsidiary and for general corporate purposes.

     On December 17, 1999, we entered into a $300.0 million Revolving Loan
Facility with a group of banks. At our request, the amount available under the
facility was reduced to $200.0 million by an amendment on June 6, 2001. Interest
expense for 2001 includes a charge of $0.6 million related to the write off of
prepaid loan fees in connection with the amendment. We can borrow up to the
maximum allowed by the facility on a revolving basis until the facility expires
on December 17, 2004. Outstanding advances under the facility bear interest at
agreed upon rates, which ranged between 2.6% and 3.1% at December 31, 2001. The
facility is collateralized in part by the pledge of the stock of Houston
Casualty Company and Avemco Insurance Company, and by the stock of and
guarantees entered into by our principal underwriting agencies and
intermediaries. The facility agreement contains certain restrictive covenants,
including minimum net worth requirements, restrictions on certain extraordinary
corporate actions, notice requirements for certain material occurrences and
required maintenance of specified financial ratios. We believe that the
restrictive covenants and our obligations that are contained in the facility
agreement are typical for financing arrangements comparable to our facility.

     The mortgage note is payable in fixed monthly installments though June 1,
2013 and is collateralized by the land and building occupied by Professional
Indemnity Agency, Inc. The stated interest of the mortgage note is 7.4%.
However, the fair value of the note balance was imputed at 4.1% as of the date
we acquired Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc., based on interest rates offered
to us at that time.

     The acquisition notes are payable to former owners of Rattner Mackenzie
Limited. Most of the outstanding balance, $2.5 million, is due or callable
during 2002, with the remaining balance, $0.9 million due in 2003. Most of the
acquisition notes carry no stated interest rate, but were discounted for
financial reporting purposes when the acquisition of Rattner Mackenzie Limited
was recorded. The weighted average interest rate of the acquisition notes as of
December 31, 2001 is 6.0%.

     The other short-term debt is payable to a former shareholder of
Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc. and was assumed by us upon the completion of
the acquisition. The notes are due in two installments totaling $4.0 million but
were recorded at fair value by imputing a 4.1% interest rate.

     At December 31, 2001, certain of our subsidiaries maintained revolving
lines of credit with a bank in the combined maximum amount of $20.0 million
available through December 17, 2004. Advances under the lines of credit are
limited to amounts required to fund draws, if any, on letters of credit issued
by the bank on behalf of the subsidiaries and short-term direct cash advances.
The lines of credit are collateralized by securities having an aggregate market
value of up to $25.0 million, the actual amount of collateral at any one time
being 125% of the aggregate amount outstanding. Interest on the lines is payable
at the bank's prime rate of interest (4.75% at December 31, 2001) for draws on
the letters of credit and prime less 1% on short-term cash advances. As of
December 31, 2001, letters of credit totaling $7.1 million had been issued to
insurance companies by the bank on behalf of our subsidiaries, with total
securities of $8.9 million collateralizing the lines.

                                       F-19
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

(6) INCOME TAX

     As of December 31, 2001 and 2000, we had income taxes receivable of $32.0
million and $13.2 million, respectively, included in other assets in the
consolidated balance sheets. The components of the income tax provision for the
three years ended December 31, 2001 are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           2001      2000      1999
                                                          -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Current.................................................  $35,055   $26,948   $12,963
Deferred................................................   (4,869)    8,919      (692)
                                                          -------   -------   -------
          TOTAL INCOME TAX PROVISION....................  $30,186   $35,867   $12,271
                                                          =======   =======   =======
</Table>

     The net deferred tax asset is included in other assets in our consolidated
balance sheets. The composition of deferred tax assets and liabilities as of
December 31, 2001 and 2000, is as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2001      2000
                                                              --------   -------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Tax net operating loss carryforwards........................  $ 15,581   $ 9,698
Excess of financial unearned premium over tax...............     6,555     4,919
Effect of loss reserve discounting and salvage and
  subrogation accrual for tax...............................     9,897     7,434
Excess of financial accrued expenses over tax...............     4,918     5,520
Allowance for bad debts, not deductible for tax.............     2,788     2,484
Foreign branch net operating loss carryforwards.............     2,568     1,912
Valuation allowance.........................................   (10,435)   (9,666)
                                                              --------   -------
          Total assets......................................    31,872    22,301
Unrealized gain on increase in value of securities available
  for sale (shareholders' equity)...........................     3,717     2,400
Deferred policy acquisition costs, net of ceding
  commissions, deductible for tax...........................     2,256     5,237
Amortizable goodwill........................................     5,256     3,816
Property and equipment depreciation and other items.........     4,165     4,183
                                                              --------   -------
          Total liabilities.................................    15,394    15,636
                                                              --------   -------
          NET DEFERRED TAX ASSET............................  $ 16,478   $ 6,665
                                                              ========   =======
</Table>

     Changes in the valuation allowance account applicable to the net deferred
tax asset for the three years ended December 31, 2001 are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           2001      2000      1999
                                                          -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Balance, beginning of year..............................  $ 9,666   $12,091   $    50
Increase (decrease) charged (credited) to income........     (536)       --       453
Increase (decrease) charged (credited) to capital.......    1,305        --        --
Valuation allowance related to acquired net operating
  loss carryforwards....................................       --     3,262    11,588
Reduction in valuation allowance resulting from waiver
  of previously acquired net operating loss
  carryforwards.........................................       --    (5,687)       --
                                                          -------   -------   -------
          BALANCE, END OF YEAR..........................  $10,435   $ 9,666   $12,091
                                                          =======   =======   =======
</Table>

     As of December 31, 2001, we have Federal tax net operating loss
carryforwards of approximately $30.4 million that will expire in varying amounts
through the year 2021. Future use of these carryforwards is

                                       F-20
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

subject to statutory limitations due to prior changes of ownership. There are
valuation allowances in the amount of $9.5 million recorded with respect to
these loss carryforwards that would reduce goodwill if the carryforwards are
realized. In addition, we have approximately $7.3 million of tax loss
carryforwards, principally from a recently established foreign branch of one of
our insurance companies, that can be used only against future taxable income of
the branch. Based upon our history domestically of taxable income in our
insurance and other operations and our projections of future taxable income
domestically and in our foreign branch insurance operations as they mature, we
believe it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets related to our
loss carryforwards for which there are no valuation allowances will be realized.

     The following table summarizes the differences between our effective tax
rate for financial statement purposes and the Federal statutory rate for the
three years ended December 31, 2001:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           2001      2000      1999
                                                          -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Statutory tax rate......................................     35.0%     35.0%     35.0%
Federal tax at statutory rate...........................  $21,134   $31,967   $13,595
Nontaxable municipal bond interest and dividends
  received deduction....................................   (3,314)   (3,545)   (5,460)
Other non deductible expenses...........................      512       620       622
Non deductible goodwill amortization....................    7,781     2,497       475
State income taxes......................................    3,259     4,202     3,011
Foreign income taxes....................................    2,915     1,537     4,793
Foreign tax credit......................................   (2,968)   (1,826)   (4,354)
Other, net..............................................      867       415      (411)
                                                          -------   -------   -------
          INCOME TAX PROVISION..........................  $30,186   $35,867   $12,271
                                                          =======   =======   =======
          EFFECTIVE TAX RATE............................     50.0%     39.3%     31.6%
                                                          =======   =======   =======
</Table>

(7)  SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA

     We have classified our activities into four operating business segments
based upon services provided: 1) insurance company operations, 2) underwriting
agency operations, 3) intermediary operations, and 4) other operations. See Note
1 for a description of the services provided by and the principal subsidiaries
included in our insurance company, underwriting agency and intermediary
segments. Our other operations segment performed various insurance related
services and contains insurance related investments made from time to time.
During 2001, we sold the last of our service operations, which will result in a
decrease in other operating income in future years. Corporate includes general
corporate operations, and those minor operations not included in an operating
segment. Inter-segment revenue consists primarily of management fees of our
underwriting agency segment, commission income of our intermediary segment and
service revenue of our other operations charged to our insurance company segment
on business retained by our insurance companies. Inter-segment pricing (either
flat rate fees or as a percentage premium) approximates what is charged to
unrelated parties for similar services.

     The performance of each of our segments is evaluated by our management
based upon net earnings. Net earnings is calculated after tax and after all
corporate expense allocations, amortization of goodwill, interest expense on
debt incurred at the purchase date and intercompany eliminations have been
charged or credited to our individual segments. The following tables show
information by business segment and geographic location. Geographic location is
determined by physical location of our offices and does not represent the
location of insureds or reinsureds from whom the business was generated.

                                       F-21
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

     All segment information for 2000 and 1999 has been restated to include the
accounts and operations of The Schanen Consulting Group, Inc. in the
intermediary segment.

     Effective January 1, 2001, we consolidated the operations of three of our
underwriting agencies into the operations of our insurance companies. Policies
incepting on or after January 1, 2001, along with associated expenses, will be
reported in our insurance company segment. The administration of all policies
incepting before January 1, 2001, which are now in run off, along with
associated expenses, will continue to be reported in our underwriting agency
segment. This consolidation will affect the comparability of segment information
between periods.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                    INSURANCE   UNDERWRITING                    OTHER
                                     COMPANY       AGENCY      INTERMEDIARY   OPERATIONS   CORPORATE    TOTAL
                                    ---------   ------------   ------------   ----------   ---------   --------
<S>                                 <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>         <C>
For the year ended December 31,
  2001:
Revenue:
  Domestic........................  $330,724      $64,848        $23,518       $14,885      $1,426     $435,401
  Foreign.........................    45,098        2,312         22,650            --          --       70,060
  Inter-segment...................        --       22,619            491         1,967          --       25,077
                                    --------      -------        -------       -------      ------     --------
     Total segment revenue........  $375,822      $89,779        $46,659       $16,852      $1,426      530,538
                                    ========      =======        =======       =======      ======
Inter-segment revenue.............                                                                      (25,077)
                                                                                                       --------
     CONSOLIDATED TOTAL REVENUE...                                                                     $505,461
                                                                                                       ========
Net earnings (loss):
  Domestic........................  $  1,020      $16,075        $ 4,382       $ 7,149      $ (979)    $ 27,647
  Foreign.........................    (3,923)       1,137          4,280            --          --        1,494
                                    --------      -------        -------       -------      ------     --------
     Total segment net
       earnings (loss)............  $ (2,903)     $17,212        $ 8,662       $ 7,149      $ (979)      29,141
                                    ========      =======        =======       =======      ======
  Inter-segment eliminations......                                                                        1,056
                                                                                                       --------
     CONSOLIDATED NET EARNINGS....                                                                     $ 30,197
                                                                                                       ========
Other items:
  Net investment income...........  $ 30,766      $ 5,202        $ 2,771       $    85      $  814     $ 39,638
  Depreciation, amortization and
     impairments..................    20,685        9,783          3,723           256         479       34,926
  Interest expense................        37        5,198          3,534            15         100        8,884
  Capital expenditures............     3,049        1,048          1,627           107       6,452       12,283

  Income tax provision............     2,432       15,604          3,054         3,692       4,756       29,538
  Inter-segment eliminations......                                                                          648
                                                                                                       --------
     Consolidated income tax
       provision..................                                                                     $ 30,186
                                                                                                       ========
</Table>

     During 2001, our insurance company segment recorded two large unusual
items: 1) a $22.8 million (net of income tax) loss due to the terrorist attacks
on September 11 and 2) a $29.4 million charge (net of income tax) related to
lines of business being exited. Included in the latter amount, was a $15.0
million charge for the impairment of goodwill, which is not deductible for
income tax purposes. Also during 2001, earnings (loss)

                                       F-22
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

before income taxes was $60.4 million for our domestic subsidiaries and $(0.1)
million for our foreign subsidiaries and branches.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                    INSURANCE   UNDERWRITING                    OTHER
                                     COMPANY       AGENCY      INTERMEDIARY   OPERATIONS   CORPORATE    TOTAL
                                    ---------   ------------   ------------   ----------   ---------   --------
<S>                                 <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>         <C>
For the year ended December 31,
  2000:
Revenue:
  Domestic........................  $276,240      $ 99,808       $31,525       $23,826      $ 1,035    $432,434
  Foreign.........................    15,054         4,446        21,669            --           --      41,169
  Inter-segment...................        --        16,404           345         1,468           --      18,217
                                    --------      --------       -------       -------      -------    --------
     Total segment revenue........  $291,294      $120,658       $53,539       $25,294      $ 1,035     491,820
                                    ========      ========       =======       =======      =======
Inter-segment revenue.............                                                                      (18,217)
                                                                                                       --------
     CONSOLIDATED TOTAL REVENUE...                                                                     $473,603
                                                                                                       ========
Net earnings (loss):
  Domestic........................  $ 27,289      $ 20,771       $ 9,846       $ 5,960      $(4,710)   $ 59,156
  Foreign.........................    (3,094)          672         1,366            --           --      (1,056)
                                    --------      --------       -------       -------      -------    --------
     Total segment net earnings
       (loss).....................  $ 24,195      $ 21,443       $11,212       $ 5,960      $(4,710)     58,100
                                    ========      ========       =======       =======      =======
  Inter-segment eliminations......                                                                         (619)
  Cumulative effect of accounting
     change.......................                                                                       (2,013)
                                                                                                       --------
     CONSOLIDATED NET EARNINGS....                                                                     $ 55,468
                                                                                                       ========
Other items:
  Net investment income...........  $ 27,948      $  7,547       $ 3,335       $   476      $   530    $ 39,836
  Depreciation and amortization...     3,662        11,926         3,567           385          368      19,908
  Interest expense................       103         9,222         4,846             2        6,174      20,347
  Restructuring expense...........       749           798          (789)            3           --         761
  Capital expenditures............     3,124         4,651         1,082           219        1,074      10,150

  Income tax provision
     (benefit)....................     8,308        20,900         6,402         3,578       (1,604)     37,584
  Inter-segment eliminations......                                                                         (382)
  Cumulative effect of accounting
     change.......................                                                                       (1,335)
                                                                                                       --------
     Consolidated income tax
       provision..................                                                                     $ 35,867
                                                                                                       ========
</Table>

     Our insurance company segment increased its policy issuance fees on certain
2000 contracts to reflect current market conditions, which had the effect of
reducing our underwriting agencies' management fees $11.4 million for the year
ended December 31, 2000, but, as our insurance company segment reduced its net
policy acquisition costs by a like amount, there was no effect to consolidated
net income. For 2000, earnings (loss) before income taxes was $92.7 million for
our domestic subsidiaries and $(1.4) million for our foreign subsidiaries and
branches.

                                       F-23
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                    INSURANCE   UNDERWRITING                    OTHER
                                     COMPANY       AGENCY      INTERMEDIARY   OPERATIONS   CORPORATE    TOTAL
                                    ---------   ------------   ------------   ----------   ---------   --------
<S>                                 <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>         <C>
For the year ended December 31,
  1999:
Revenue:
  Domestic........................  $151,044      $91,385        $35,472       $27,364      $   681    $305,946
  Foreign.........................    10,676        3,699         25,244            --           --      39,619
  Inter-segment...................        --        3,170            594         1,133           --       4,897
                                    --------      -------        -------       -------      -------    --------
     Total segment revenue........  $161,720      $98,254        $61,310       $28,497      $   681     350,462
                                    ========      =======        =======       =======      =======
Inter-segment revenue.............                                                                       (4,897)
                                                                                                       --------
     CONSOLIDATED TOTAL REVENUE...                                                                     $345,565
                                                                                                       ========
Net earnings (loss):
  Domestic........................  $ (8,631)     $17,129        $10,491       $ 7,643      $(2,279)   $ 24,353
  Foreign.........................    (2,078)          21          4,575            --           --       2,518
                                    --------      -------        -------       -------      -------    --------
     Total segment net earnings
       (loss).....................  $(10,709)     $17,150        $15,066       $ 7,643      $(2,279)     26,871
                                    ========      =======        =======       =======      =======
Inter-segment eliminations........                                                                         (299)
                                                                                                       --------
     CONSOLIDATED NET EARNINGS....                                                                     $ 26,572
                                                                                                       ========
Other items:
  Net investment income...........  $ 23,400      $ 4,186        $ 2,504       $   424      $   432    $ 30,946
  Depreciation and amortization...     2,880        5,898          3,798           264          580      13,420
  Interest expense................        19        3,809          4,640            --        4,496      12,964
  Restructuring expense...........       687        3,278          1,453            --           71       5,489
  Capital expenditures............     2,405        5,339            148           585          637       9,114

  Income tax provision
     (benefit)....................   (13,324)      13,969          8,608         4,454       (1,242)     12,465
  Inter-segment eliminations......                                                                         (194)
                                                                                                       --------
     Consolidated income tax
       provision..................                                                                     $ 12,271
                                                                                                       ========
</Table>

     The insurance company segment incurred a provision for reinsurance totaling
$28.3 million, net of income tax, during 1999. Also during 1999, earnings before
income taxes was $33.7 million for our domestic subsidiaries and $5.1 million
for our foreign subsidiaries and branches.

                                       F-24
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

     The following tables present revenue by line of business within each of our
operating segments for the three years ended December 31, 2001:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         2001       2000       1999
                                                       --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                    <C>        <C>        <C>
Insurance company:
  Life, accident and health..........................  $186,188   $148,039   $ 50,919
  Aviation...........................................    91,377     73,695     62,784
  Marine, energy and property........................    23,748     10,163     12,779
  Other specialty lines..............................    15,124     14,552      9,072
                                                       --------   --------   --------
                                                        316,437    246,449    135,554
  Exited and discontinued lines of business..........    26,350     21,198      5,808
                                                       --------   --------   --------
     TOTAL NET EARNED PREMIUM........................  $342,787   $267,647   $141,362
                                                       ========   ========   ========
Underwriting agency:
  Life, accident and health..........................  $ 47,857   $ 70,536   $ 66,127
  Property and casualty..............................    13,938     25,522     24,586
                                                       --------   --------   --------
     TOTAL MANAGEMENT FEES...........................  $ 61,795   $ 96,058   $ 90,713
                                                       ========   ========   ========
Intermediary:
  Life, accident and health..........................  $ 33,739   $ 36,795   $ 39,354
  Property and casualty..............................     9,673     13,091     18,879
                                                       --------   --------   --------
     TOTAL COMMISSION INCOME.........................  $ 43,412   $ 49,886   $ 58,233
                                                       ========   ========   ========
</Table>

     Assets by business segment and geographic location are shown in the
following table:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                 INSURANCE    UNDERWRITING                    OTHER
                                  COMPANY        AGENCY      INTERMEDIARY   OPERATIONS   CORPORATE     TOTAL
                                 ----------   ------------   ------------   ----------   ---------   ----------
<S>                              <C>          <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>         <C>
December 31, 2001:
Domestic.......................  $1,696,823     $742,739       $ 75,162       $5,790      $32,875    $2,553,389
Foreign........................     290,597       36,936        338,198           --           --       665,731
                                 ----------     --------       --------       ------      -------    ----------
     Total assets..............  $1,987,420     $779,675       $413,360       $5,790      $32,875    $3,219,120
                                 ==========     ========       ========       ======      =======    ==========
December 31, 2000:
Domestic.......................  $1,613,412     $582,644       $ 89,836       $6,908      $34,299    $2,327,099
Foreign........................     146,825       37,729        279,102           --           --       463,656
                                 ----------     --------       --------       ------      -------    ----------
     Total assets..............  $1,760,237     $620,373       $368,938       $6,908      $34,299    $2,790,755
                                 ==========     ========       ========       ======      =======    ==========
</Table>

(8)  REINSURANCE

     In the normal course of business, our insurance companies cede a portion of
their premium to non-affiliated domestic and foreign reinsurers through treaty
and facultative reinsurance agreements. Although the ceding of reinsurance does
not discharge the primary insurer from liability to its policyholder, our
insurance companies participate in such agreements for the purpose of limiting
their loss exposure, protecting them

                                       F-25
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

against catastrophic loss and diversifying their business. The following table
represents the effect of such reinsurance transactions on net premium and loss
and loss adjustment expense:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                           LOSS AND LOSS
                                                     WRITTEN     EARNED     ADJUSTMENT
                                                     PREMIUM    PREMIUM       EXPENSE
                                                     --------   --------   -------------
<S>                                                  <C>        <C>        <C>
For the year ended December 31, 2001:
Direct business....................................  $783,124   $789,893     $612,455
Reinsurance assumed................................   226,951    218,234      451,390
Reinsurance ceded..................................  (637,117)  (665,340)    (796,455)
                                                     --------   --------     --------
       NET AMOUNTS.................................  $372,958   $342,787     $267,390
                                                     ========   ========     ========
For the year ended December 31, 2000:
Direct business....................................  $676,730   $663,458     $493,647
Reinsurance assumed................................   290,727    311,137      279,999
Reinsurance ceded..................................  (683,669)  (706,948)    (575,176)
                                                     --------   --------     --------
       NET AMOUNTS.................................  $283,788   $267,647     $198,470
                                                     ========   ========     ========
For the year ended December 31, 1999:
Direct business....................................  $291,513   $294,130     $261,696
Reinsurance assumed................................   276,818    294,103      423,763
Reinsurance ceded..................................  (428,407)  (446,871)    (575,809)
                                                     --------   --------     --------
       NET AMOUNTS.................................  $139,924   $141,362     $109,650
                                                     ========   ========     ========
</Table>

     Ceding commissions netted with policy acquisition costs in the consolidated
statements of earnings are $185.2 million, $214.7 million, and $117.0 million
for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively.

     The table below represents the composition of reinsurance recoverables in
our consolidated balance sheets:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2001       2000
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Reinsurance recoverable on paid losses......................  $ 86,653   $ 99,224
Reinsurance recoverable on outstanding losses...............   414,428    376,778
Reinsurance recoverable on incurred but not reported
  losses....................................................   403,223    317,467
Reserve for uncollectible reinsurance.......................    (5,176)    (4,057)
                                                              --------   --------
       TOTAL REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES.......................  $899,128   $789,412
                                                              ========   ========
</Table>

     Our insurance companies require reinsurers not authorized by their
respective states of domicile to collateralize their reinsurance obligations to
us. The table below shows amounts held by us as collateral plus other credits
available for potential offset as of December 31, 2001 and 2000:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2001       2000
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Payables to reinsurers......................................  $199,581   $200,591
Letters of credit...........................................   145,796    142,494
Cash deposits...............................................    14,851     23,813
                                                              --------   --------
       TOTAL CREDITS........................................  $360,228   $366,898
                                                              ========   ========
</Table>

                                       F-26
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

     In order to reduce our exposure to reinsurance credit risk, we evaluate the
financial condition of our reinsurers and place our reinsurance with a diverse
group of companies and syndicates, which we believe to be financially sound. The
following table shows reinsurance balances relating to our reinsurers with a net
recoverable balance greater than $15.0 million as of December 31, 2001 and 2000.
The total recoverables column includes paid loss recoverable, outstanding loss
recoverable, incurred but not reported losses recoverable and ceded unearned
premium.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                LETTERS OF CREDIT,
                                        CURRENT                     TOTAL       CASH DEPOSITS AND
REINSURER                               RATING      LOCATION     RECOVERABLES     OTHER PAYABLES       NET
- ---------                               -------  --------------  ------------   ------------------   -------
<S>                                     <C>      <C>             <C>            <C>                  <C>
December 31, 2001:
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 1101.........  NR       United Kingdom    $40,913            $1,532         $39,381
Canada Life Assurance Company.........  A+       Canada             28,956                --          28,956
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 1206.........  C+       United Kingdom     27,251               351          26,900
AXA Corporate Solutions Reinsurance
  Co. ................................  A+       Delaware           26,582               680          25,902
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 2488.........  A-       United Kingdom     25,813             1,187          24,626
American Re-Insurance Company.........  A++      Delaware           24,674             1,697          22,977
SCOR Reinsurance Company..............  A        New York           21,883                --          21,883
American Fidelity Assurance Company...  A+       Oklahoma           19,881                12          19,869
Transatlantic Reinsurance Company.....  A++      New York           20,543               849          19,694
Federal Insurance Company.............  A++      Indiana            26,902             8,971          17,931
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 0957.........  NR       United Kingdom     17,653                --          17,653
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 0510.........  A-       United Kingdom     17,647             1,500          16,147
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 0055.........  NR       United Kingdom     16,168               305          15,863

December 31, 2000:
GE Reinsurance Corporation............  A++      Illinois          $38,152            $4,881         $33,271
AXA Corporate Solutions Reinsurance
  Co. ................................  A+       Delaware           40,886             9,131          31,755
Underwriters Indemnity Company........  A-       Texas              33,912             2,416          31,496
SCOR Reinsurance Company..............  A        New York           28,419               734          27,685
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 1101.........  NR       United Kingdom     27,645             1,142          26,503
American Re-Insurance Company.........  A++      Delaware           23,487             2,249          21,238
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 1206.........  C+       United Kingdom     18,357               147          18,210
Transamerica Occidental Life Insurance
  Co. ................................  A+       California         17,056               151          16,905
</Table>

     Ratings for companies are published by A.M. Best Company, Inc. Ratings for
individual syndicates are published by Moody's Investors Services, Inc. "NR"
indicates that the indicated Lloyd's syndicate has not been rated. Lloyd's of
London is an insurance and reinsurance marketplace composed of many independent
underwriting syndicates financially supported by a central trust fund.

     HCC Life Insurance Company previously sold its entire block of life
insurance and annuity business to Life Reassurance Corporation of America (rated
A++ by A.M. Best Company, Inc.) in the form of an indemnity reinsurance
contract. Ceded life and annuity benefits amounted to $83.0 million and $86.8
million as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

     We have a reserve of $5.2 million as of December 31, 2001 for potential
collectibility issues related to reinsurance recoverables and associated
expenses. The adverse economic environment in the worldwide insurance industry
and the terrorist attacks on September 11 have placed great pressure on
reinsurers and the

                                       F-27
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

results of their operations. Ultimately, these conditions could affect
reinsurers' solvency. Historically, there have been insolvencies following a
period of competitive pricing in the industry, such as the marketplace has
experienced for the last several years. While we believe that the reserve is
adequate based on currently available information, conditions may change or
additional information might be obtained that would affect our estimate of the
adequacy of the level of the reserve and which may result in a future change in
the reserve. We continually review our financial exposure to the reinsurance
market and continue to take actions to mitigate our position.

     A number of reinsurers have delayed or suspended the payment of amounts
recoverable under certain reinsurance contracts to which we are a party. Such
delays have affected, although not materially to date, the investment income of
our insurance companies, but not to any extent their liquidity. We limit our
liquidity exposure by holding funds, letters of credit or other security such
that net balances due are significantly less than the gross balances shown in
our consolidated balance sheets. In some instances, the reinsurers have withheld
payment without reference to a substantive basis for the delay or suspension. In
other cases, the reinsurers have claimed they are not liable for payment to us
of all or part of the amounts due under the applicable reinsurance agreement. We
believe these claims are without merit and expect to collect the full amounts
recoverable. We are currently in negotiations with most of these parties, but if
such negotiations do not result in a satisfactory resolution of the matters in
question, we may seek or be involved in a judicial or arbitral determination of
these matters. In some cases, the final resolution of such disputes through
arbitration or litigation may extend over several years.

     In this regard, as of December 31, 2001, our insurance companies had
initiated litigation or arbitration proceedings against five reinsurers and were
involved in one arbitration proceeding initiated by a reinsurer. These
proceedings primarily concern the collection of amounts owing under reinsurance
agreements. As of such date, our insurance companies had an aggregate amount of
$15.3 million which had not been paid to us under the disputed agreements and we
estimate that there could be an additional $31.2 million of incurred losses and
loss expenses under the subject agreements. In addition, because our insurance
companies, principally Houston Casualty Company, participated in facilities
which were managed by one of our underwriting agencies, they are indirectly
involved in any reinsurance disputes which affect the applicable facilities. As
of December 31, 2001, Houston Casualty Company's allocated portion of aggregate
amounts which had not been reimbursed to the applicable facilities under the
disputed agreements was $4.8 million and we estimate that there could be an
additional $4.0 million of incurred losses and loss expenses under the subject
agreements allocated to Houston Casualty Company. Houston Casualty Company has
no net exposure on disputed amounts due to the non-affiliated companies who also
participated in the applicable facilities.

     During 1999, we recorded a provision for reinsurance totaling $29.5 million
in connection with the insolvency of a reinsurer. We continue to expect this
provision to be sufficient. We also recorded a $14.0 million provision following
a commutation (the contractual settlement of outstanding and future liabilities)
with another reinsurer, the majority of which represents the present value
discount of ceded losses.

(9)  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

  LITIGATION

     In addition to the matters discussed in Note (8), Reinsurance, we are party
to numerous lawsuits and other proceedings that arise in the normal course of
our business. Many of such lawsuits and other proceedings involve claims under
policies that we underwrite as an insurer or reinsurer, the liabilities for
which, we believe have been adequately included in our loss reserves. Also, from
time to time, we are party to lawsuits and other proceedings which relate to
disputes over contractual relationships with third parties, or which involve
alleged errors and omissions on the part of our subsidiaries. We believe the
resolution of any such lawsuits will not have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

                                       F-28
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

  FOREIGN CURRENCY FORWARD CONTRACTS

     On a limited basis, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts as a
hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. Rattner Mackenzie Limited has
revenue streams in U.S. Dollars and Canadian Dollars but incurs expenses in
British Pound Sterling ("GBP"). To mitigate the foreign exchange risk, we have
entered into foreign currency forward contracts expiring at staggered times
through December, 2002. As of December 31, 2001, we had forward contracts to
sell US $6.0 million for GBP at an average rate of GBP 1.00 equals US $1.43. The
foreign currency forward contracts are used to convert currency at a known rate
in an amount which either approximates or is less than average monthly expenses.
Thus, the effect of these transactions is to limit the foreign currency exchange
risk of the recurring monthly expenses. We utilize these foreign currency
forward contracts strictly as a hedge against existing exposure to foreign
currency fluctuations rather than as a form of speculative or trading
investment. The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts as of December
31, 2001 was immaterial.

  CATASTROPHE EXPOSURE

     We write business in areas exposed to catastrophic losses and have
significant exposures to this type of loss in California, the Atlantic Coast of
the United States, certain United States Gulf Coast states, particularly Florida
and Texas, the Caribbean and Mexico. We assess our overall exposures to a single
catastrophic event and apply procedures that we believe are more conservative
than are typically used by the industry to ascertain our probable maximum loss
from any single event. We maintain reinsurance protection which we believe is
sufficient to cover any foreseeable event.

  TERRORIST EXPOSURE

     Subsequent to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, where possible,
we canceled all terrorist coverage, under the terms of existing in-force
policies, primarily in the property and energy lines of business. All new and
renewal policies are written with an appropriate terrorist exclusion except for
lines of business, such as aviation, where reinsurance for acts of terrorism is
available at an economic cost or where we feel comfortable with the net
exposure.

     At January 1, 2002, and February 1, 2002, respectively, our energy and
property reinsurance protections were renewed without coverage for acts of
terrorism. Therefore, to the extent that certain existing, in-force policies
contain such coverage, then we would have a net exposure to any applicable
losses. The actual amount of this exposure is not determinable but could
represent a catastrophic loss, a risk for which we would usually purchase
reinsurance protection. As each month goes by, existing in-force policies will
expire and the overall exposure continues to reduce substantially.

  LEASES

     We lease administrative office facilities under long-term non-cancelable
operating lease agreements expiring at various dates through September, 2007. In
addition to rent, the agreements generally require the payment of utilities,
real estate taxes, insurance and repairs. We recognize rent expense on a
straight-line basis over the terms of these leases. In addition, we lease
computer equipment and automobiles under operating leases expiring at various
dates through the year 2004. Rent expense under operating leases amounted to
$7.1 million, $7.3 million, and $5.9 million, for the years ended December 31,
2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively.

                                       F-29
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

     At December 31, 2001, future minimum annual rental payments required under
long-term, non-cancelable operating leases, excluding certain expenses payable
by us, are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,                               AMOUNT DUE
- --------------------------------                               ----------
<S>                                                            <C>
       2002.................................................    $ 6,663
       2003.................................................      6,383
       2004.................................................      5,358
       2005.................................................      4,402
       2006.................................................      2,948
       Thereafter...........................................        885
                                                                -------
TOTAL FUTURE MINIMUM ANNUAL RENTAL PAYMENTS DUE.............    $26,639
                                                                =======
</Table>

  LOAN GUARANTEE

     We guaranteed the mortgage debt of a partnership in which we are a limited
partner. The total amount of the loan is $11.4 million as of December 31, 2001.
We invested in the partnership, which owns a building which is rented to
unaffiliated parties, as a long-term investment.

(10)  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     Certain of our Directors are officers, directors or owners of business
entities with which we transact business. Balances with these business entities
and other related parties included in our consolidated balance sheets are as
follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2001      2000
                                                              -------   ------
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>
Marketable equity securities................................  $    --   $2,725
Other investments...........................................    7,124    7,182
Premiums, claims and other receivables......................      776      435
</Table>

     Transactions with these business entities and other related parties
included in our consolidated statements of earnings are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            2001     2000      1999
                                                            -----   -------   -------
<S>                                                         <C>     <C>       <C>
Management fees...........................................  $  58   $    --   $    --
Investment income.........................................     --       112       206
Net realized investment gain (loss).......................     53    (5,067)   (4,521)
Other operating income (loss).............................   (508)       89     5,221
Other operating expense...................................     --       112        28
Interest expense..........................................    217        74       418
</Table>

     Additionally, we had $15.7 million and $4.6 million payable at December 31,
2001 and 2000, respectively, and sold assets in 2000 for proceeds of $0.6
million to former owners of businesses we have acquired who are now officers of
certain of our subsidiaries. Such payables represent payments due under the
terms of the acquisition agreements or liabilities that existed prior to the
acquisitions and the sale of assets was in accordance with the terms of an
acquisition agrement.

     We also have entered into an agreement with an entity owned by an officer
and Director, pursuant to which we rent equipment for providing transportation
services to our employees, our Directors and our clients. We provide our own
employees to operate the equipment and pay all expenses related to its
operation. For the

                                       F-30
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, we paid rental of $1.0 million,
$0.6 million and $0.9 million, respectively, to this entity.

     We have committed to invest $5.0 million in an investment partnership
managed by a company which is partially owned by a Director. As of December 31,
2001, $4.4 million had been invested under this commitment. We also committed to
invest $5.0 million in another business with which this Director is affiliated.
This investment was funded by us in January, 2002.

(11)  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     We have a defined contribution retirement plan under Section 401(k) of the
Internal Revenue Code which covers substantially all of our employees residing
in the United States who meet specified service requirements. The contributions
are discretionary and are determined by our management as of the beginning of
each calendar year. We currently match each of our employee's contribution to
the 401(k) plan up to 6% of the employee's salary. Employees who reside outside
the United States receive comparable benefits under different plans. We
contributed $2.7 million, $3.2 million, and $3.1 million to the plans for the
years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively, which is included
in compensation expense in our consolidated statements of earnings.

(12)  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

     On March 6, 2001, we sold 6.9 million shares of our common stock in a
public offering at a price of $23.35 per share. Net proceeds from the offering
amounted to $152.4 million after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions
and offering expenses and were used to pay down our bank facility.

     Under the Texas Insurance Code, Houston Casualty Company and U.S. Specialty
Insurance Company must each maintain minimum statutory capital of $1.0 million
and minimum statutory surplus of $1.0 million, and can only pay dividends out of
statutory unassigned surplus funds. In addition, they are limited in the amount
of dividends which they may pay in any twelve-month period, without prior
regulatory approval, to the greater of their statutory net income for the prior
calendar year or ten percent (10%) of their statutory policyholders' surplus as
of the prior calendar year end. During 2002, Houston Casualty Company's ordinary
dividend capacity will be approximately $28.5 million and U.S. Specialty
Insurance Company's ordinary dividend capacity will be zero.

     Avemco Insurance Company is limited by the State of Maryland in the amount
of dividends which it may pay in any twelve-month period, without prior
regulatory approval, to the lesser of its statutory net investment income
excluding realized capital gains for the prior calendar year or ten percent
(10%) of its statutory policyholders' surplus as of the prior year end. During
2002, Avemco Insurance Company's ordinary dividend capacity will be
approximately $7.2 million.

     HCC Life Insurance Company is limited by the laws of the State of Indiana
in the amount of dividends it may pay in any twelve-month period, without prior
regulatory approval, to the greater of its net gain from operations for the
prior calendar year or ten percent (10%) of its statutory capital and surplus as
of the prior year end. During 2002, HCC Life Insurance Company's ordinary
dividend capacity will be approximately $15.1 million.

                                       F-31
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

     The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are as
follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                           UNREALIZED    ACCUMULATED OTHER
                                     FOREIGN CURRENCY   UNREALIZED HEDGE   INVESTMENT      COMPREHENSIVE
                                       TRANSLATION        GAIN (LOSS)      GAIN (LOSS)     INCOME (LOSS)
                                     ----------------   ----------------   -----------   -----------------
<S>                                  <C>                <C>                <C>           <C>
Balance December 31, 1998..........       $(650)              $--           $ 10,355         $  9,705
Net change for year................         167                --            (12,564)         (12,397)
                                          -----               ---           --------         --------
Balance December 31, 1999..........        (483)               --             (2,209)          (2,692)
Net change for year................        (172)               --              7,577            7,405
                                          -----               ---           --------         --------
Balance December 31, 2000..........        (655)               --              5,368            4,713
Net change for year................        (279)               24              2,042            1,787
                                          -----               ---           --------         --------
Balance December 31, 2001..........       $(934)              $24           $  7,410         $  6,500
                                          =====               ===           ========         ========
</Table>

(13)  STOCK OPTIONS

     During 2001, we replaced all previous option plans with our 2001 Flexible
Incentive Plan, which is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board
of Directors. Each option may be used to purchase one share of our common stock.
Options cannot be repriced under the plan. As of December 31, 2001, 5.8 million
shares of our common stock were reserved for the exercise of options, of which
3.3 million shares were reserved for options previously granted and 2.5 million
shares were reserved for future issuances of options.

     Options vest over a zero to five year period and expire four to ten years
after grant date. All options have been granted at fixed exercise prices at the
market price of our common stock on the grant date. If the fair value method of
valuing compensation related to options would have been used, pro forma net
earnings and pro forma diluted earnings per share would have been $25.8 million,
or $0.43 per share, for the year ended December 31, 2001; $50.8 million, or
$0.98 per share, for the year ended December 31, 2000; and $22.2 million, or
$0.44 per share, for the year ended December 31, 1999. The fair value of each
option grant was estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes single
option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions: a) risk
free interest rate of 4.4% for 2001, 6.4% for 2000, and 5.7% for 1999, b)
expected volatility factor of .3, c) dividend yield of 0.91% for 2001, 0.89% for
2000, and 1.52% for 1999, and d) expected option life of five years for 2001 and
four years for 2000 and 1999. The average fair value of options granted during
the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 was $7.66, $4.51 and $4.16,
respectively.

     The following table provides an analysis of stock option activity during
the three years ended December 31, 2001:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                2001                   2000                   1999
                                        --------------------   --------------------   --------------------
                                                    AVERAGE                AVERAGE                AVERAGE
                                         NUMBER     EXERCISE    NUMBER     EXERCISE    NUMBER     EXERCISE
                                        OF SHARES    PRICE     OF SHARES    PRICE     OF SHARES    PRICE
                                        ---------   --------   ---------   --------   ---------   --------
<S>                                     <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>
Outstanding, beginning of year........    5,494      $15.54      5,470      $16.08      5,460      $16.73
Granted at market value...............      797       24.54      1,745       13.59      1,869       13.48
Forfeitures and expirations...........     (251)      17.73       (434)      18.32     (1,327)      18.36
Exercised.............................   (2,735)      15.68     (1,287)      14.34       (532)       7.88
                                         ------      ------     ------      ------     ------      ------
Outstanding, end of year..............    3,305      $17.39      5,494      $15.54      5,470      $16.08
                                         ======      ======     ======      ======     ======      ======
Exercisable, end of year..............    1,100      $16.70      2,717      $16.59      2,983      $16.84
                                         ======      ======     ======      ======     ======      ======
</Table>

                                       F-32
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

     Options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2001 are shown on
the following schedule:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                    OPTIONS OUTSTANDING             OPTIONS EXERCISABLE
                                          ---------------------------------------   --------------------
                                                          AVERAGE        AVERAGE                AVERAGE
RANGE OF                                  NUMBER OF      REMAINING       EXERCISE   NUMBER OF   EXERCISE
EXERCISE PRICES                            SHARES     CONTRACTUAL LIFE    PRICE      SHARES      PRICE
- ---------------                           ---------   ----------------   --------   ---------   --------
<S>                                       <C>         <C>                <C>        <C>         <C>
Under $11.00............................      470        2.8 years        $10.52        223      $10.35
$11.00-$12.25...........................      834              4.5         12.02        214       12.00
$12.26-$20.00...........................      788              3.0         16.76        307       16.42
$20.01-$26.00...........................      802              4.5         22.17        306       23.28
Over $26.00.............................      411              5.8         27.99         50       26.56
                                            -----        ---------        ------      -----      ------
  Total options.........................    3,305        4.1 years        $17.39      1,100      $16.70
                                            =====        =========        ======      =====      ======
</Table>

(14)  EARNINGS PER SHARE

     The following table provides reconciliation of the denominators used in the
earnings per share calculations for the three years ended December 31, 2001:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2001      2000      1999
                                                              -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
Net earnings................................................  $30,197   $55,468   $26,572
                                                              =======   =======   =======
Reconciliation of number of shares outstanding:
Shares of common stock outstanding at year end..............   61,438    51,342    49,836
Changes in common stock due to issuance.....................   (3,272)     (908)     (241)
Contingent shares to be issued..............................       --        39        49
Common stock contractually issuable in the future...........      155       269       414
                                                              -------   -------   -------
Weighted average common stock outstanding...................   58,321    50,742    50,058
Additional dilutive effect of outstanding options (as
  determined by the application of the treasury stock
  method)...................................................    1,298       877       588
                                                              -------   -------   -------
Weighted average common stock and potential common stock
  outstanding...............................................   59,619    51,619    50,646
                                                              =======   =======   =======
</Table>

     As of December 31, 2001, there were approximately 0.2 million options that
were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because to do
so would have been antidilutive.

(15)  STATUTORY INFORMATION

     Our insurance companies file financial statements prepared in accordance
with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by domestic or
foreign insurance regulatory authorities. The differences between statutory
financial statements and financial statements prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles vary between domestic and foreign
jurisdictions. The principal differences are that for statutory financial
statements deferred policy acquisition costs are not recognized, only some of
the deferred income tax assets are recorded, bonds are generally carried at
amortized cost, certain assets are non-admitted and charged directly to surplus,
a liability for a provision for reinsurance is recorded and charged directly to
surplus, and outstanding losses and unearned premium are presented net of
reinsurance. In addition, under statutory accounting rules, life insurance
companies recognize two investment related liabilities, the asset valuation
reserve and interest maintenance reserve. Statutory policyholders' surplus, and

                                       F-33
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

net income for the three years ended December 31, 2001, after intercompany
eliminations, of our insurance companies included in those companies' respective
filings with regulatory authorities are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2001       2000       1999
                                                              --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>
Statutory policyholders' surplus............................  $401,393   $326,249   $315,474
Statutory net income (loss).................................    16,555     13,749     (8,707)
</Table>

     Our statutory policyholders' surplus has been adversely affected by
statutory adjustments for reinsurance recoverables which, although required
statutorily, have no effect on net earnings or shareholders' equity in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our statutory net
income for 2001 has been reduced by $22.8 million (net of income tax) from the
September 11 terrorist attacks and $8.1 million (net of income tax) from charges
related to lines of business being exited. Our statutory net loss for 1999
includes a $25.5 million loss (net of income tax) from the provision for
reinsurance.

     The National Association of Insurance Commissioners adopted Statements of
Statutory Accounting Principles in March, 1998, which became effective on
January 1, 2001, through their adoption by the individual states. The cumulative
effect of codification was to increase statutory policyholders' surplus of our
insurance companies by approximately $8.9 million. Our use of statutory
accounting practices prescribed by state regulatory authorities caused a $3.2
million reduction in statutory surplus as of December 31, 2001 compared to
amounts that would have been recorded under the codification rules of the
National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The statutory surplus of each
of our insurance companies is significantly in excess of regulatory risk-based
capital requirements.

(16)  SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION

     Supplemental cash flow information for the three years ended December 31,
2001, is summarized below:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2001      2000      1999
                                                              -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
Interest paid...............................................  $ 7,980   $17,418   $13,694
Income tax paid.............................................   28,411    11,859    23,116
Dividends declared but not paid at year end.................    3,848     3,557     2,442
</Table>

     The unrealized gain or loss on securities available for sale, deferred
taxes related thereto, and the issuance of our common stock for the purchase of
subsidiaries are non-cash transactions which have been included as direct
increases or decreases in our shareholders' equity. The cumulative effect of
accounting change due to our adoption of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101
during 2000 was a non-cash charge to our earnings.

                                       F-34
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

(17)  LIABILITY FOR UNPAID LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE

     The following table provides a reconciliation of the liability of loss and
loss adjustment expense for the three years ended December 31, 2001:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                 2001        2000       1999
                                                              ----------   --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>        <C>
Reserves for loss and loss adjustment expense at beginning
  of the year...............................................  $  944,117   $871,104   $460,511
Less reinsurance recoverables...............................     694,245    597,498    341,599
                                                              ----------   --------   --------
Net reserves at beginning of the year.......................     249,872    273,606    118,912
Net reserve adjustments from acquisition and disposition of
  subsidiaries..............................................         285        514     55,523
Effect on loss reserves of write off of ceded outstanding
  and incurred but not reported reinsurance recoverables....          --         --     82,343
Provision for loss and loss adjustment expense for claims
  occurring in the current year.............................     278,103    208,055    105,036
Increase (decrease) in estimated loss and loss adjustment
  expense for claims occurring in prior years...............     (10,713)    (9,585)     4,614
                                                              ----------   --------   --------
Incurred loss and loss adjustment expense, net of
  reinsurance...............................................     267,390    198,470    109,650
                                                              ----------   --------   --------
Loss and loss adjustment expense payments for claims
  occurring during:
Current year................................................     102,206     76,725     36,770
Prior years.................................................     102,244    145,993     56,052
                                                              ----------   --------   --------
Loss and loss adjustment expense payments, net of
  reinsurance...............................................     204,450    222,718     92,822
                                                              ----------   --------   --------
Net reserves at end of the year.............................     313,097    249,872    273,606
Plus reinsurance recoverables...............................     817,651    694,245    597,498
                                                              ----------   --------   --------
Reserves for loss and loss adjustment expense at end of the
  year......................................................  $1,130,748   $944,117   $871,104
                                                              ==========   ========   ========
</Table>

     During 2001, we had net loss and loss adjustment expense redundancy of
$10.7 million relating to prior year losses compared to a redundancy of $9.6
million in 2000 and a deficiency of $4.6 million in 1999. The deficiencies and
redundancies in the reserves result from our continued review with our actuaries
of our loss reserves and the increase or reduction of such reserves as losses
are finally settled and claims exposures are reduced. We believe we have
provided for all material net incurred losses.

     We have no material exposure to environmental pollution losses, because
Houston Casualty Company only began writing business in 1981 and its policies
normally contain pollution exclusion clauses which limit pollution coverage to
"sudden and accidental" losses only, thus excluding intentional (dumping) and
seepage claims. Policies issued by HCC Life Insurance Company, Avemco Insurance
Company and U.S. Specialty Insurance Company, because of the types of risks
covered, are not considered to have significant environmental exposures.
Therefore, we do not expect to experience any material development in reserves
for environmental pollution claims.

                                       F-35
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED, IN THOUSANDS)

(18)  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                          FOURTH QUARTER         THIRD QUARTER        SECOND QUARTER         FIRST QUARTER
                                        -------------------   -------------------   -------------------   -------------------
                                          2001       2000       2001       2000       2001       2000       2001       2000
                                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
<S>                                     <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Total revenue.........................  $132,192   $110,170   $137,621   $120,539   $120,556   $120,947   $115,092   $121,947
                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
Earnings (loss) before accounting
  change..............................  $ 23,837   $ 13,135   $(29,076)  $ 17,762   $ 20,258   $ 13,180   $ 15,178   $ 13,404
Cumulative effect of accounting
  change..............................        --         --         --         --         --         --         --     (2,013)
                                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
Net earnings (loss)...................  $ 23,837   $ 13,135   $(29,076)  $ 17,762   $ 20,258   $ 13,180   $ 15,178   $ 11,391
                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
Basic earnings (loss) per share data:
Earnings (loss) before accounting
  change..............................  $   0.39   $   0.26   $  (0.49)  $   0.35   $   0.34   $   0.26   $   0.28   $   0.27
Cumulative effect of accounting
  change..............................        --         --         --         --         --         --         --      (0.04)
                                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
Earnings (loss) per share.............  $   0.39   $   0.26   $  (0.49)  $   0.35   $   0.34   $   0.26   $   0.28   $   0.23
                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
Weighted average shares outstanding...    61,021     51,181     59,399     50,739     58,998     50,525     53,720     50,400
                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
Diluted earnings (loss) per share
  data:
Earnings (loss) before accounting
  change..............................  $   0.38   $   0.25   $  (0.49)  $   0.34   $   0.34   $   0.26   $   0.28   $   0.26
Cumulative effect of accounting
  change..............................        --         --         --         --         --         --         --      (0.04)
                                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
Earnings (loss) per share.............  $   0.38   $   0.25   $  (0.49)  $   0.34   $   0.34   $   0.26   $   0.28   $   0.22
                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
Weighted average shares outstanding...    62,051     52,530     59,399     52,037     60,470     51,083     55,070     50,706
                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
</Table>

     During the fourth quarter of 2000, we recorded a $2.9 million (net of
income tax) increase in reserves of exited lines of business that were part of
the 1999 The Centris Group, Inc. acquisition and a $1.0 million (net of income
tax) restructuring expense. During the third quarter of 2001, we recorded two
large unusual items: 1) a $22.8 million (net of income tax) loss due to the
terrorist attacks on September 11; and 2) a $29.6 million charge (net of income
tax) related to lines of business being exited. Included in the latter amount
was a $15.0 million charge for the impairment of goodwill, which is not
deductible for income tax purposes. The sum of the quarters earnings (loss) per
share may not equal the annual amounts due to rounding.

                                       F-36
<PAGE>

       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.:

     Our report on the consolidated financial statements of HCC Insurance
Holdings, Inc., which included an emphasis paragraph related to a change in the
Company's method of revenue recognition for certain contracts, effective January
1, 2000, is included on page F-1 of this Form 10-K. In connection with our
audits of such financial statements, we have also audited the financial
statement schedules listed in Item 14(b) of this Form 10-K. These financial
statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management.

     In our opinion, these financial statement schedules present fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Houston, Texas
March 19, 2002

                                       S-1
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 1

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                             SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS
                   OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES
                               DECEMBER 31, 2001

<Table>
<Caption>
COLUMN A                                                   COLUMN B   COLUMN C      COLUMN D
- --------                                                   --------   --------   ---------------
                                                                                 AMOUNT AT WHICH
                                                                                  SHOWN IN THE
TYPE OF INVESTMENT                                           COST      VALUE      BALANCE SHEET
- ------------------                                         --------   --------   ---------------
                                                                      (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                        <C>        <C>        <C>
Fixed maturities:
  Bonds -- United States government and government
     agencies and authorities............................  $ 70,235   $ 71,368      $ 71,368
  Bonds -- states, municipalities and political
     subdivisions........................................    52,834     53,918        53,918
  Bonds -- special revenue...............................   147,956    151,740       151,740
  Bonds -- corporate.....................................   140,702    145,285       145,285
  Asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities............    97,684     98,628        98,628
  Bonds -- foreign government............................     4,263      4,489         4,489
                                                           --------   --------      --------
          Total fixed maturities.........................   513,674   $525,428       525,428
                                                           --------   ========      --------
Equity securities:
  Common stocks -- banks, trusts and insurance
     companies...........................................       738   $    700           700
  Common stocks -- industrial, miscellaneous and all
     other...............................................    13,057     13,065        13,065
  Non-redeemable preferred stocks........................     2,636      2,804         2,804
                                                           --------   --------      --------
          Total equity securities........................    16,431   $ 16,569        16,569
                                                           --------   ========      --------
Short-term investments...................................   338,904                  338,904
Other investments........................................     8,007                    7,565
                                                           --------                 --------
          TOTAL INVESTMENTS..............................  $877,016                 $888,466
                                                           ========                 ========
</Table>

                                       S-2
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 2

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                                 BALANCE SHEETS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                2001       2000
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
                                     ASSETS
Cash........................................................  $  8,719   $     58
Short-term investments......................................     1,497      3,488
Investment in subsidiaries..................................   734,067    616,031
Receivable from subsidiaries................................    12,754      1,437
Intercompany loans to subsidiaries..........................   190,167    126,325
Deferred Federal income tax.................................        --      1,711
Other assets................................................     5,732      3,974
                                                              --------   --------
          TOTAL ASSETS......................................  $952,936   $753,024
                                                              ========   ========
                      LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Notes payable...............................................  $173,198   $207,500
Note payable to related party...............................     2,667      4,633
Deferred Federal income tax.................................     1,652         --
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities....................    11,966      9,961
                                                              --------   --------
          Total liabilities.................................   189,483    222,094
          Total shareholders' equity........................   763,453    530,930
                                                              --------   --------
          TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY........  $952,936   $753,024
                                                              ========   ========
</Table>

                 See Notes to Condensed Financial Information.
                                       S-3
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 2

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                             STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------------------
                                                                2001        2000        1999
                                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>         <C>
Equity in earnings of subsidiaries..........................   $37,439     $62,416     $32,397
Interest income from subsidiaries...........................     5,019       9,160       4,165
Interest income.............................................       764         343         146
Other income................................................        13         146          73
                                                               -------     -------     -------
  Total revenue.............................................    43,235      72,065      36,781
Interest expense............................................     8,737      20,249      12,907
Other operating expense.....................................     1,600       1,582         266
                                                               -------     -------     -------
     Total expense..........................................    10,337      21,831      13,173
                                                               -------     -------     -------
     Earnings before income tax benefit.....................    32,898      50,234      23,608
Income tax expense (benefit)................................     2,701      (5,234)     (2,964)
                                                               -------     -------     -------
     NET EARNINGS...........................................   $30,197     $55,468     $26,572
                                                               =======     =======     =======
</Table>

                 See Notes to Condensed Financial Information.
                                       S-4
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 2

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                       STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ----------------------------------
                                                                2001        2000         1999
                                                              ---------   ---------   ----------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>         <C>
Net earnings................................................   $30,197     $55,468     $ 26,572
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:
Foreign currency translation adjustment.....................      (279)       (172)         167
Gain in fair value of subsidiaries' foreign currency forward
  contracts recorded as a hedge, net of income tax charge of
  $13.......................................................        24          --           --
Investment gains (losses):
  Consolidated subsidiaries' investment gains (losses)
     during the year, net of deferred tax charge (benefit)
     of, $1,137 in 2001; $2,386 in 2000; and $(8,042) in
     1999...................................................     2,297       4,118      (15,271)
  Less consolidated subsidiaries' reclassification
     adjustments for (gains) losses included in net
     earnings, net of deferred tax (charge) benefit of
     $(138) in 2001; $1,862 in 2000; and $1,457 in 1999.....      (255)      3,459        2,707
                                                               -------     -------     --------
Other comprehensive income (loss)...........................     1,787       7,405      (12,397)
                                                               -------     -------     --------
          COMPREHENSIVE INCOME..............................   $31,984     $62,873     $ 14,175
                                                               =======     =======     ========
</Table>

                 See Notes to Condensed Financial Information.
                                       S-5
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 2

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                             --------------------------------
                                                               2001        2000       1999
                                                             ---------   --------   ---------
<S>                                                          <C>         <C>        <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net earnings.............................................  $  30,197   $ 55,468   $  26,572
  Adjustment to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided
     (used) by operating activities:
  Undistributed net income of subsidiaries.................    (37,439)   (62,416)    (32,397)
  Change in deferred Federal income tax, net of tax effect
     of unrealized gain or loss............................      2,636       (885)        687
  Changes in other assets and other........................       (636)      (222)      1,768
  Amortization and depreciation............................      2,586        526         513
  Increase in accrued interest receivable added to
     intercompany loan balances............................       (835)    (5,160)     (4,035)
  Change in accounts payable and accrued liabilities.......      1,181     (5,286)     (7,819)
  Tax benefit from exercise of stock options...............     12,312      3,628       1,156
                                                             ---------   --------   ---------
       Cash provided (used) by operating activities........     10,002    (14,347)    (13,555)
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Sales of other operating investments.....................         --        307          --
  Cash contributions to subsidiaries.......................    (84,151)    (1,130)    (36,030)
  Purchase of subsidiaries.................................    (96,405)   (10,345)   (201,947)
  Change in short-term investments.........................      1,991     (3,093)      4,144
  Cost of investment acquired..............................         --         --      (2,898)
  Change in receivable from subsidiaries...................    (11,317)     4,403      10,084
  Intercompany loans to subsidiaries.......................     (1,275)   (16,509)    (27,404)
  Payments on intercompany loans to subsidiaries...........     34,674     42,838      66,595
  Cash dividends from subsidiaries.........................     17,255     21,598      93,228
                                                             ---------   --------   ---------
       Cash provided (used) by investing activities........   (139,228)    38,069     (94,228)
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from note payable, net of costs.................    175,401     26,470     547,000
  Payments on notes payable................................   (216,523)   (57,042)   (433,600)
  Sale of common stock.....................................    192,831     17,235       3,627
  Dividends paid...........................................    (13,822)   (10,350)     (9,221)
                                                             ---------   --------   ---------
       Cash provided (used) by financing activities........    137,887    (23,687)    107,806
                                                             ---------   --------   ---------
     Net change in cash....................................      8,661         35          23
     Cash as of beginning of year..........................         58         23          --
                                                             ---------   --------   ---------
     CASH AS OF END OF YEAR................................  $   8,719   $     58   $      23
                                                             =========   ========   =========
</Table>

                 See Notes to Condensed Financial Information.
                                       S-6
<PAGE>

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                    NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     (1) The accompanying condensed financial information should be read in
         conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related
         notes thereto of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Subsidiaries.
         Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the equity method.
         Certain amounts in the 2000 and 1999 condensed financial information
         have been reclassified to conform with the 2001 presentation. Such
         reclassifications had no effect on our shareholders' equity, net
         earnings or cash flows.

     (2) Intercompany loans to subsidiaries are demand notes issued primarily to
         fund the cash portion of acquisitions. They bear interest at a rate set
         by management, which approximates the interest rate charged to us for
         similar debt. As of December 31, 2001, the interest rate on
         intercompany loans was 5.0%.

                                       S-7
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 3

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.
                      SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
<Table>
<Caption>
        COLUMN A              COLUMN B           COLUMN C         COLUMN D     COLUMN F      COLUMN G          COLUMN H
- ------------------------  -----------------   ---------------   ------------   --------   --------------     -------------------
                                                    (1)             (1)                        (2)
                                              DECEMBER 31,                              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                          -------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------------------------
                                                FUTURE POLICY                                               BENEFITS, CLAIMS,
                                              BENEFITS, LOSSES,                             NET               LOSSES AND
                           DEFERRED POLICY     CLAIMS AND LOSS   UNEARNED     PREMIUM   INVESTMENT            SETTLEMENT
        SEGMENTS          ACQUISITION COSTS       EXPENSES       PREMIUMS     REVENUE     INCOME               EXPENSES
- ------------------------  -----------------   ----------------- ----------- ----------------------------------------------------
<S>                           <C>                <C>              <C>         <C>           <C>             <C>
2001
- ------------------------
Insurance Company.......       $15,390           $1,213,761       $179,530    $342,787       $30,766         $267,390
Underwriting Agency.....                                                                       5,202
Intermediary............                                                                       2,771
Other Operations........                                                                          85
Corporate...............                                                                         814
                               -------           ----------        --------    --------      -------         --------
Total...................       $15,390           $1,213,761        $179,530    $342,787      $39,638         $267,390
                               =======           ==========        ========    ========      =======         ========
2000
- ------------------------
Insurance Company.......       $ 9,095           $1,030,877        $190,550    $267,647      $27,948         $198,470
Underwriting Agency.....                                                                       7,547
Intermediary............                                                                       3,335
Other Operations........                                                                         476
Corporate...............                                                                         530
                               -------           ----------        --------    --------      -------         --------
Total...................       $ 9,095           $1,030,877        $190,550    $267,647      $39,836         $198,470
                               =======           ==========        ========    ========      =======         ========
1999
- ------------------------
Insurance Company.......       $   658           $  966,864        $188,524    $141,362      $23,400         $109,650
Underwriting Agency.....                                                                       4,186
Intermediary............                                                                       2,504
Other Operations........                                                                         424
Corporate...............                                                                         432
                               -------           ----------        --------    --------      -------         --------
Total...................       $   658           $  966,864        $188,524    $141,362      $30,946         $109,650
                               =======           ==========        ========    ========      =======         ========

<Caption>
                                                          COLUMN I             COLUMN J             COLUMN K
                                                         ---------             --------            ----------
                                                                                  (3)
                                                                     FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                       -----------------------------------------------------
                                                       AMORTIZATION OF
                                                       DEFERRED POLICY             OTHER
                                                         ACQUISITION             OPERATING          PREMIUM
                                                           COSTS                  EXPENSES          WRITTEN
                                                        -------------           -----------        ----------
<S>                                                        <C>                  <C>                 <C>
2001
- ------------------------
Insurance Company.......                                    $27,923               $ 53,250           $372,958
Underwriting Agency.....                                                            51,766
Intermediary............                                                            31,409
Other Operations........                                                             5,995
Corporate...............                                                            (1,539)
                                                            -------               --------           --------
Total...................                                    $27,923               $140,881           $372,958
                                                            =======               ========           ========
2000
- ------------------------
Insurance Company.......                                    $23,743               $ 19,849           $283,788
Underwriting Agency.....                                                            69,092
Intermediary............                                                            31,078
Other Operations........                                                            15,755
Corporate...............                                                               586
                                                            -------               --------           --------
Total...................                                    $23,743               $136,360           $283,788
                                                            =======               ========           ========
1999
- ------------------------
Insurance Company.......                                    $ 8,177               $ 63,963           $139,924
Underwriting Agency.....                                                            63,325
Intermediary............                                                            32,661
Other Operations........                                                            16,399
Corporate...............                                                              (417)
                                                            -------               --------           --------
Total...................                                    $ 8,177               $175,931           $139,924
                                                            =======               ========           ========
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Columns C and D are shown ignoring the effects of reinsurance.
(2) Net investment income was allocated to the subsidiary, and therefore the
    segment, on which the related investment asset was recorded.
(3) Other operating expenses is after all corporate expense allocations and
    amortization of goodwill have been charged or credited to the individual
    segments.

Note:  Column E is omitted because we have no other policy claims and benefits
payable.

                                       S-8
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 4

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                                  REINSURANCE
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
          COLUMN A             COLUMN B      COLUMN C          COLUMN D        COLUMN E       COLUMN F
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                             PERCENT OF
                                DIRECT    CEDED TO OTHER     ASSUMED FROM                      AMOUNT
                                AMOUNT       COMPANIES      OTHER COMPANIES   NET AMOUNT   ASSUMED TO NET
                               --------   ---------------   ---------------   ----------   --------------
<S>                            <C>        <C>               <C>               <C>          <C>
For the year ended December
  31, 2001:
Life insurance in force......  $597,886      $597,310          $      0        $    576           0%
                               ========      ========          ========        ========         ===
Earned premium:
Property and liability
  insurance..................  $284,488      $229,791          $ 95,342        $150,039          64%
Accident and health
  insurance..................   505,405       435,549           122,892         192,748          64%
                               --------      --------          --------        --------
  Total......................  $789,893      $665,340          $218,234        $342,787          64%
                               ========      ========          ========        ========         ===
For the year ended December
  31, 2000:
Life insurance in force......  $633,988      $633,851          $      0        $137,000           0%
                               ========      ========          ========        ========         ===
Earned premium:
Property and liability
  insurance..................  $290,928      $285,020          $ 92,253        $ 98,161          94%
Accident and health
  insurance..................   372,530       421,928           218,884         169,486         129%
                               --------      --------          --------        --------
  Total......................  $663,458      $706,948          $311,137        $267,647         116%
                               ========      ========          ========        ========         ===
For the year ended December
  31, 1999:
Life insurance in force......  $832,305      $799,573          $      0        $ 32,732           0%
                               ========      ========          ========        ========         ===
Earned premium:
Property and liability
  insurance..................  $230,879      $277,089          $127,495        $ 81,285         157%
Accident and health
  insurance..................    63,251       169,782           166,608          60,077         277%
                               --------      --------          --------        --------
  Total......................  $294,130      $446,871          $294,103        $141,362         208%
                               ========      ========          ========        ========         ===
</Table>

                                       S-9
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 5

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2001      2000       1999
                                                              -------   -------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
Reserve for uncollectible reinsurance:
  Balance as of beginning of year...........................  $ 4,057   $ 5,541   $  2,499
  Total provision charged to expense........................    1,119       465     43,650
  Total amounts written off.................................       --    (1,949)   (40,608)
                                                              -------   -------   --------
     BALANCE AS OF END OF YEAR..............................  $ 5,176   $ 4,057   $  5,541
                                                              =======   =======   ========
Allowance for doubtful accounts:
  Balance as of beginning of year...........................  $ 3,325   $ 1,729   $    284
  Acquisitions of subsidiaries..............................      453        --        629
  Total provision charged to expense........................    2,366     2,815      1,171
  Total amounts written off.................................   (3,365)   (1,219)      (355)
                                                              -------   -------   --------
     BALANCE AS OF END OF YEAR..............................  $ 2,779   $ 3,325   $  1,729
                                                              =======   =======   ========
</Table>

                                       S-10
<PAGE>

                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS

     (Items denoted by a letter are incorporated by reference to other documents
previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as set forth at the
end of this index. Items not denoted by a letter are being filed herewith.)

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT
NUMBER
- -------
<C>       <S>  <C>
(A)3.1    --   Bylaws of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc., as amended.
(B)3.2    --   Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amendment of
               Certificate of Incorporation of HCC Insurance Holdings,
               Inc., filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on July 23,
               1996 and May 21, 1998, respectively.
(A)4.1    --   Specimen of Common Stock Certificate, $1.00 par value, of
               HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.
(C)10.1   --   Share Purchase Agreement dated January 29, 1999, among HCC
               Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Gerald Axel, Barry J. Cook,
               Gary J. Lockett, Christopher F.B. Mays, Mark E. Rattner,
               Marshall Rattner, Inc., John Smith and Keith W. Steed.
(D)10.2   --   Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of October 11, 1999
               among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc., Merger Sub of Delaware,
               Inc. and The Centris Group, Inc.
(E)10.3   --   Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January 19, 2001
               among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc., HCC Employee Benefits,
               Inc. and James Scott Schanen, Lisa Rae Schanen, Conor
               Schanen qsst, Austin Schanen qsst, Kevin Tolbert and Schanen
               Consulting Corporation.
(F)10.4   --   Loan Agreement ($300,000,000 Revolving Loan Facility) dated
               as of December 17, 1999 among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.;
               Wells Fargo Bank (Texas), National Association; Bank of
               America, N.A.; Bank of New York; Bank One, N.A.; First Union
               National Bank; and Dresdner Bank AG, New York and Grand
               Cayman Branches.
  10.5    --   Amendment to Loan Agreement dated as of August 11, 2000
               among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.; Wells Fargo Bank
               (Texas), National Association; First Union National Bank;
               Bank of America, N.A.; The Bank of New York; Bank One, N.A.;
               and Dresdner Bank AG, New York and Grand Cayman Branches.
  10.6    --   Second Amendment to Loan Agreement dated as of June 6, 2001
               among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.; Wells Fargo Bank
               (Texas), National Association; First Union National Bank;
               Bank of America, N.A.; and The Bank of New York.
(G)10.7   --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 1994 Nonemployee Director Stock
               Option Plan.
(I)10.8   --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 1992 Incentive Stock Option
               Plan, as amended and restated.
(I)10.9   --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 1995 Flexible Incentive Plan,
               as amended and restated.
(I)10.10  --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 1997 Flexible Incentive Plan,
               as amended and restated.
(I)10.11  --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 1996 Nonemployee Director Stock
               Option Plan, as amended and restated.
(J)10.12  --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 2001 Flexible Incentive Plan.
  10.13   --   Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement under the HCC
               Insurance Holdings, Inc. 2001 Flexible Incentive Plan.
(C)10.14  --   Employment Agreement effective as of January 1, 1999,
               between HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Stephen L. Way.
(H)10.15  --   Employment Agreement effective as of January 5, 2000,
               between HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and John N. Molbeck,
               Jr.
(E)10.16  --   Employment Agreement effective as of January 5, 2000,
               between HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Benjamin D. Wilcox.
(E)10.17  --   Employment Agreement effective as of January 5, 2000,
               between HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Frank J. Bramanti.
  10.18   --   Employment Agreement effective as of January 1, 2002,
               between HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Edward H. Ellis,
               Jr.
</Table>
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT
NUMBER
- -------
<C>       <S>  <C>
  10.19   --   Employment Agreement effective as of October 1, 2000 between
               HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Christopher L. Martin as
               amended effective as of January 1, 2002.
  12      --   Statement Regarding Computation of Ratios
  21      --   Subsidiaries of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.
  23      --   Consent of Independent Accountants -PricewaterhouseCoopers
               LLP dated March 29, 2002.
  24      --   Powers of Attorney
</Table>

- ---------------
(A)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-48737) filed
     October 27, 1992.

(B)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-61687) filed
     August 17, 1998.

(C)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1999.

(D)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Schedule 14D-1 Tender Offer Statement in respect to shares of The Centris
     Group, Inc. filed October 18, 1999.

(E)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000.

(F)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Form 8-K filed December 20, 1999.

(G)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 33-94472) filed July
     11, 1995.

(H) Incorporated by reference to Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s Form
    10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2000.

(I)  Incorporated by reference to Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999.

(J)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Definitive Proxy Statement for the May 24, 2001 Annual Meeting of
     Shareholders filed April 26, 2001.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.5
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>h95385ex10-5.txt
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDMENT TO LOAN AGREEMENT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.5

                           AMENDMENT TO LOAN AGREEMENT

         THIS AMENDMENT TO LOAN AGREEMENT (this "Amendment") is made and entered
into as of August 11, 2000 by and among HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware
corporation (the "Borrower"); each of the Lenders which is a party to the Loan
Agreement (as defined below) (individually, a "Lender" and, collectively, the
"Lenders"), WELLS FARGO BANK (TEXAS), NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, Administrative Agent
for the Lenders and Lead Arranger (in such capacity, together with its
successors in such capacity, the "Agent"), FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK, as
Syndications Agent, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Documentation Agent, THE BANK OF
NEW YORK, as Senior Managing Agent, BANK ONE, NA, as Co-Agent, and DRESDNER BANK
AG, NEW YORK AND GRAND CAYMAN BRANCHES, as Co-Agent.

                                    RECITALS

         A. The Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent executed and delivered that
certain Loan Agreement dated as of December 17, 1999. Said Loan Agreement is
herein called the "Loan Agreement". Any capitalized term used in this Amendment
and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Loan
Agreement.

         B. The Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent desire to amend the Loan
Agreement in certain respects.

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual
agreements, representations and warranties herein set forth, and further good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent do hereby agree as
follows:

         SECTION 1. Amendments to Loan Agreement. Effective as of the date
hereof, the Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

         (a) The definition of "Security Agreements" set forth in Section 1.1 of
the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:

                  Security Agreements means security agreements, each in Proper
         Form, executed or to be executed in favor of Agent, securing the
         Obligations, covering all of the issued and outstanding equity
         interests in each Material Subsidiary of Borrower (other than HCC UK
         Acquisition, with respect to which only 65% of its issued and
         outstanding equity interests shall be covered, and other than the
         Second Tier Insurance Company Subsidiaries), as the same may from time
         to time be amended, modified, restated or supplemented.

         (b) A new definition of "Second Tier Insurance Company Subsidiaries" is
hereby added to Section 1.1 of the Loan Agreement, such new definition to read
in its entirety as follows:

                  Second Tier Insurance Company Subsidiaries means U.S.
         Specialty Insurance Company, a Texas corporation, HCC Life Insurance
         Company, an Indiana corporation,

<PAGE>

         Centris Insurance Company, an Indiana corporation, and USF Insurance
         Company, a Pennsylvania corporation.

         (c) Section 8.4 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:

                  8.4 Mergers and Consolidations. In any single transaction or
         series of transactions, directly or indirectly: (a) liquidate or
         dissolve; (b) be a party to any merger or consolidation unless and so
         long as (i) no Default or Event of Default has occurred that is then
         continuing, (ii) immediately thereafter and giving effect thereto, no
         event will occur and be continuing which constitutes a Default and
         (iii) the applicable Obligor (or one of such Obligors if such merger
         is between Obligors) subject to such merger is the surviving Person.
         The provisions of this Section are subject to the restrictions set
         forth in Section 8.12 hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, so long
         as no Event of Default has occurred which is continuing (or will arise
         by reason thereof) (a) any Subsidiary of Borrower may merge with
         Borrower or any Obligor (other than the Second Tier Insurance Company
         Subsidiaries) provided that Borrower or such Obligor is the surviving
         entity, or with one or more Subsidiaries of Borrower (other than the
         Second Tier Insurance Company Subsidiaries), including without
         limitation mergers between newly acquired Subsidiaries in connection
         with any acquisition permitted hereunder, provided that if any merger
         is between a wholly-owned Subsidiary of Borrower and a Subsidiary of
         Borrower which is not a wholly-owned Subsidiary, such wholly-owned
         Subsidiary of Borrower shall be the surviving entity, (b) any
         Subsidiary of Borrower may sell all or substantially all of its assets
         (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to Borrower or any other
         Obligor (other than the Second Tier Insurance Company Subsidiaries)
         or, so long as such Subsidiary is not an Obligor, to another
         wholly-owned Subsidiary of Borrower, (c) any Subsidiary which is not a
         Material Subsidiary may be liquidated or dissolved, and (d) mergers,
         consolidations or dissolutions by any Subsidiary of Borrower to change
         its state of incorporation or to change the form of entity are not
         prohibited.

         (d) Section 8.12 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:

                  8.12 Acquisitions. Without the prior written consent of
         the Majority Lenders, acquire any real Property or any material
         personal Property (including any acquisition of equity interests in
         another Person other than an Obligor or, subject to the provisions of
         Section 8.15 hereof, any other Subsidiary of Borrower as of the
         Effective Date) after the Effective Date from any Person other than an
         Obligor if the aggregate consideration for a single transaction would
         exceed $100,000,000 or if the aggregate consideration for the
         applicable transaction plus the aggregate consideration for all
         acquisitions of real Property or material personal Property (including
         any acquisition of equity interests in another Person other than an
         Obligor) previously consummated during the applicable fiscal year
         (other than those from an Obligor or, subject to the provisions of
         Section 8.15 hereof, any other Subsidiary of Borrower as of the
         Effective Date) would exceed $150,000,000; provided, however, that
         notwithstanding the foregoing, the aggregate consideration paid during
         any fiscal year for the acquisition of all of the issued and
         outstanding equity interests in and to other Persons shall not exceed
         40% of Shareholders' Equity as of the last day of the preceding fiscal
         year. Each such

                                       2

<PAGE>

         acquisition shall be subject to the provisions of Section 8.7 hereof.
         Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Section,
         neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries may acquire any
         additional equity interests in and to the Second Tier Insurance
         Company Subsidiaries without the prior written consent of the Majority
         Lenders.

         SECTION 2. Release of Certain Collateral. The Agent and the Lenders
hereby release all Liens created under and pursuant to the Loan Documents in and
to any equity interests in U.S. Specialty Insurance Company, a Texas
corporation, HCC Life Insurance Company, an Indiana corporation, Centris
Insurance Company, an Indiana corporation, and USF Insurance Company, a
Pennsylvania corporation.

         SECTION 3. Waiver of Certain Defaults. The Agent and the Lenders hereby
waive any defaults which have arisen prior to the date hereof by reason of the
pledge of the equity interests in and to the Second Tier Insurance Company
Subsidiaries as security for the Obligations.

         SECTION 4. Ratification. Except as expressly amended by this Amendment,
the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall remain in full force and
effect. None of the rights, title and interests existing and to exist under the
Loan Agreement are hereby released, diminished or impaired, and the Borrower
hereby reaffirms all covenants, representations and warranties in the Loan
Agreement.

         SECTION 5. Expenses. The Borrower shall pay to the Agent all reasonable
fees and expenses of its respective legal counsel (pursuant to Section 11.3 of
the Loan Agreement) incurred in connection with the execution of this Amendment.

         SECTION 6. Certifications. The Borrower hereby certifies that (a) no
material adverse change in the assets, liabilities, financial condition,
business or affairs of the Borrower has occurred since March 31, 2000 and (b) no
uncured Default or uncured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or
will occur as a result of this Amendment.

         SECTION 7. Miscellaneous. This Amendment (a) shall be binding upon and
inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent and their
respective successors, assigns, receivers and trustees; (b) may be modified or
amended only by a writing signed by the required parties; (c) shall be governed
by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas and the
United States of America; (d) may be executed in several counterparts by the
parties hereto on separate counterparts, and each counterpart, when so executed
and delivered, shall constitute an original agreement, and all such separate
counterparts shall constitute but one and the same agreement and (e) together
with the other Loan Documents, embodies the entire agreement and understanding
between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all
prior agreements, consents and understandings relating to such subject matter.
The headings herein shall be accorded no significance in interpreting this
Amendment.

                                       3

<PAGE>



                NOTICE PURSUANT TO TEX. BUS. & COMM. CODE SECTION 26.02

         THE LOAN AGREEMENT, AS AMENDED BY THIS AMENDMENT, AND ALL OTHER LOAN
DOCUMENTS EXECUTED BY ANY OF THE PARTIES PRIOR HERETO OR SUBSTANTIALLY
CONCURRENTLY HEREWITH CONSTITUTE A WRITTEN LOAN AGREEMENT WHICH REPRESENTS THE
FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF
PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES. THERE ARE
NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent have caused
this Amendment to be signed by their respective duly authorized officers,
effective as of the date first above written.

                                              HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.,
                                              a Delaware corporation


                                              By: /s/ FRANK J. BRAMANTI
                                                  ------------------------------
                                                      Frank J. Bramanti,
                                                      Executive Vice President

                                       4

<PAGE>



                                              WELLS FARGO BANK (TEXAS), NATIONAL
                                              ASSOCIATION, as Administrative
                                              Agent and Lead Arranger and as a
                                              Lender



                                              By:   /s/  JONATHAN C. HOMEYER
                                                   -----------------------------
                                              Name:      Jonathan C. Homeyer
                                                   -----------------------------
                                              Title:     Vice President
                                                    ----------------------------


                                       5

<PAGE>



                                              FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK,
                                              as Syndications Agent and as a
                                              Lender


                                              By:     /s/  DANIEL J. NORTON
                                                   -----------------------------
                                              Name:        Daniel J. Norton
                                                   -----------------------------
                                              Title:       Director
                                                    ----------------------------


                                       6



<PAGE>



                                              BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
                                              as Documentation Agent and as a
                                              Lender


                                              By:     /s/  D. KEITH THOMPSON
                                                    ----------------------------
                                              Name:        D. Keith Thompson
                                                    ----------------------------
                                              Title:       Principal
                                                    ----------------------------



                                       7

<PAGE>



                                              THE BANK OF NEW YORK,
                                              as Senior Managing Agent and as a
                                              Lender


                                              By:     /s/  BENJAMIN L. BALKIND
                                                    ----------------------------
                                              Name:        Benjamin L. Balkind
                                                    ----------------------------
                                              Title:       Vice President
                                                    ----------------------------





                                       8


<PAGE>



                                              BANK ONE, NA,
                                              as Co-Agent and as a Lender


                                              By:     /s/  THOMAS W. DODDRIDGE
                                                    ----------------------------
                                              Name:        Thomas W. Doddridge
                                                    ----------------------------
                                              Title:       First Vice President
                                                    ----------------------------








<PAGE>



                           DRESDNER BANK AG, NEW YORK AND GRAND CAYMAN BRANCHES,
                           as Co-Agent and as a Lender

                           By:  /s/ LLOYD C. STEVENS  /s/ GEORGE T. FERGUSON, IV
                                ------------------------------------------------
                           Name:    Lloyd C. Stevens    George T. Ferguson, IV
                                ------------------------------------------------
                           Title:   Vice President      Assistant Vice President
                                 -----------------------------------------------




                                       10






<PAGE>



                                              CREDIT LYONNAIS NEW YORK BRANCH


                                              By:     /s/  PETER RASMUSSEN
                                                    ----------------------------
                                              Name:        Peter Rasmussen
                                                    ----------------------------
                                              Title:  First Vice President
                                                    ----------------------------






                                       11




<PAGE>



                                               GUARANTY FEDERAL BANK, F.S.B.

                                               By:     /s/  RICHARD MENCHACA
                                                    ----------------------------
                                               Name:        Richard Menchaca
                                                    ----------------------------
                                               Title:         Vice President
                                                    ----------------------------



                                               By:
                                                    ----------------------------
                                               Name:
                                                    ----------------------------
                                               Title:
                                                    ----------------------------





                                       12




<PAGE>



                                               UNION BANK OF CALIFORNIA N.A.


                                               By:     /s/  ROBERT C. NAGEL
                                                    ----------------------------
                                               Name:        Robert C. Nagel
                                                    ----------------------------
                                               Title:         Vice President
                                                    ----------------------------



                                       13







<PAGE>



         The undersigned hereby join in this Amendment to evidence their consent
to execution by Borrower of this Amendment, to confirm that each Loan Document
now or previously executed by the undersigned applies and shall continue to
apply to the Loan Agreement, as amended hereby, to acknowledge that without such
consent and confirmation, Lenders would not execute this Amendment and to join
in the notice pursuant to Tex. Bus. & Comm. Code Section 26.02 set forth above.

                                             AVEMCO CORPORATION, a Delaware
                                             corporation, NORTH AMERICAN SPECIAL
                                             RISK ASSOCIATES, INC., an Illinois
                                             corporation, LDG REINSURANCE
                                             CORPORATION, a Massachusetts
                                             corporation, HCC EMPLOYER SERVICES,
                                             INC., an Alabama corporation, HCC
                                             EMPLOYEE BENEFITS, INC., a Delaware
                                             corporation, HCC AVIATION INSURANCE
                                             GROUP, INC., a Texas corporation,
                                             HCC BENEFITS CORPORATION, a
                                             Delaware corporation, HCC
                                             INTERMEDIARIES, INC., a Texas
                                             corporation, HCC INTERMEDIATE
                                             HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware
                                             corporation, THE CENTRIS GROUP,
                                             INC., a Delaware corporation, U.S.
                                             BENEFITS INSURANCE SERVICES, INC.,
                                             a California corporation, and U.S.
                                             HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware
                                             corporation


                                             By:   /s/ FRANK J. BRAMANTI
                                                --------------------------------
                                                       Frank J. Bramanti,
                                                       Executive Vice President


                                       14

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.6
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>h95385ex10-6.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SECOND AMENDMENT TO LOAN AGREEMENT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.6

                       SECOND AMENDMENT TO LOAN AGREEMENT


         THIS SECOND AMENDMENT TO LOAN AGREEMENT (this "Amendment") is made and
entered into as of June 6, 2001 by and among HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC., a
Delaware corporation (the "Borrower"); each of the Lenders which is a party to
the Loan Agreement (as defined below) (individually, a "Lender" and,
collectively, the "Lenders"), WELLS FARGO BANK TEXAS, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
Administrative Agent for the Lenders and Lead Arranger (in such capacity,
together with its successors in such capacity, the "Agent"), FIRST UNION
NATIONAL BANK, as Syndication Agent, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Documentation
Agent, and THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Senior Managing Agent.

                                    RECITALS

         A. The Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent executed and delivered that
certain Loan Agreement dated as of December 17, 1999. Said Loan Agreement, as
heretofore amended, is herein called the "Loan Agreement". Any capitalized term
used in this Amendment and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in the Loan Agreement.

         B. The Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent desire to amend the Loan
Agreement in certain respects.

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual
agreements, representations and warranties herein set forth, and further good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent do hereby agree as
follows:

         SECTION 1. Amendments to Loan Agreement. Effective as of the date
hereof, the Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

         (a) The definition of "Margin Percentage" set forth in Section 1.1 of
the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:

                  Margin Percentage means (i) on any day prior to July 1, 2001,
         0.750% and (ii) on and after July 1, 2001, the applicable per annum
         percentage set forth at the appropriate intersection in the table shown
         below, based on the Debt to Capitalization Ratio as of the last day of
         the most recently ended fiscal quarter of Borrower calculated by Agent
         as soon as practicable after receipt by Agent of all financial reports
         required under this Agreement with respect to such fiscal quarter
         (including a Compliance Certificate) (provided, however, that if the
         Margin Percentage is increased as a result of the reported Debt to
         Capitalization Ratio, such increase shall be retroactive to the date
         that Borrower was obligated to deliver such financial reports to Agent
         pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and provided further, however,
         that if the Margin Percentage is decreased as a result of the reported
         Debt to Capitalization Ratio, and such financial reports are delivered
         to Agent not more than ten (10) calendar days after the date required
         to be delivered pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, such decrease
         shall be retroactive to the date that Borrower was obligated to deliver
         such financial reports to Agent pursuant to the terms of this
         Agreement):


<PAGE>
<TABLE>
                      Debt to
                Capitalization Ratio                        Margin Percentage
                --------------------                        -----------------
<S>                                                         <C>
                Greater than or equal to
                0.250 to 1.000                                     1.150

                Greater than or equal to
                0.175 to 1.00 but less
                than 0.250 to 1.000                                0.950

                Less than 0.175 to 1.000                           0.750
</TABLE>
         (b) The definition of "Permitted Dividends" set forth in Section 1.1 of
the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:

                  Permitted Dividends means (i) dividends or distributions by a
         Subsidiary of Borrower to Borrower (or to another Subsidiary of
         Borrower) or redemption by a Subsidiary of any of its stock held by
         Borrower (or by another Subsidiary of Borrower), (ii) dividends paid in
         stock and stock splits and (iii) so long as no Default or Event of
         Default shall have occurred and be continuing (or would result
         therefrom), dividends or distributions by Borrower not exceeding, in
         the aggregate in any applicable fiscal year, $35,000,000. The dividends
         and distributions otherwise permitted under this definition shall be
         subject to the provisions of Section 8.15 hereof.

         (c) Section 2.2(a) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in
its entirety as follows:

                    (a) [INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

         (d) Section 2.3(a) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in
its entirety as follows:

               (a) Borrower shall pay to Agent for the account of each Revolving
          Loan Lender revolving loan commitment fees for the period from June 6,
          2001 to and including the Revolving Loan Termination Date at 0.15% per
          annum. Such revolving loan commitment fees shall be computed (on the
          basis of the actual number of days elapsed in a year composed of 365
          or 366 days, as the case may be) on each day and shall be based on the
          excess of (x) the aggregate amount of each Revolving Loan Lender's
          Commitment for such day over (y) the aggregate unpaid principal
          balance of such Lender's Note on such day. Accrued revolving loan
          commitment fees under this provision shall be payable in arrears on
          the Quarterly Dates prior to the Revolving Loan Termination Date and
          on the Revolving Loan Termination Date.

         (e) Section 7.2(h) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in
its entirety as follows:

                                       2

<PAGE>

               (h) within sixty (60) days after the end of each fiscal year,
          projections of the consolidated financial statements of Borrower and
          its Subsidiaries for the following fiscal year

         (f) Section 7.3(a)(ii) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read
in its entirety as follows:

               (ii) Debt to Capitalization Ratio - a Debt to Capitalization
          Ratio of not greater than 30% at all times.

         (g) Section 7.3(b) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in
its entirety as follows:

               (b) Borrower will cause each of its Insurance Company
          Subsidiaries to maintain a Risk Based Capital Ratio of not less than
          200% as of the last day of each fiscal year. In addition, Borrower
          will cause the Insurance Company Subsidiaries to maintain, on a
          consolidated basis, a statutory surplus of not less than $300,000,000
          at all times.

         (h) Section 8.1(vii) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in
its entirety as follows:

               (vii) any unsecured Indebtedness of Borrower not to exceed, in
          the aggregate at any one time outstanding, $100,000,000 (to be
          increased on a dollar-for-dollar basis by any decrease of the
          Commitments from time to time from the levels in effect as of May 1,
          2001); provided, however, that $100,000,000 of such availability for
          borrowings shall be restricted to public debt offerings by Borrower;
          and

         (i) A new subsection (viii) is hereby added to Section 8.1, such new
subsection to read in its entirety as follows:

               (viii) any unsecured Indebtedness owing by a Subsidiary of
          Borrower to Borrower.

         (j) Section 8.5 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:

               8.5 Disposition of Assets. Sell, convey or lease all or any part
          of its assets, except as permitted by Section 8.4 hereof and except
          for (a) sales of Inventory in the ordinary course of business, (b)
          transfers resulting from casualty or condemnation of property, (c)
          intercompany sales or transfers of goods, (d) any sale or other
          transfer of any property or assets not otherwise permitted hereunder
          provided that the net proceeds of all such sales and transfers shall
          not exceed, in the aggregate during any fiscal year of Borrower, five
          percent (5%) of the tangible assets of Borrower and its Subsidiaries,
          on a consolidated basis and determined in accordance with GAAP, (e)
          licenses or sublicenses of intellectual property and general
          intangibles and licenses, leases or subleases of other Property in the
          ordinary course of business and which do not materially interfere with
          the business or operation of any Obligor and which does not otherwise
          have a Material Adverse Effect, (f) sales/leaseback transactions
          (provided that Borrower and its

                                       3

<PAGE>

          Subsidiaries shall not, in the aggregate, consummate more than three
          (3) sales/leasebacks with respect to Property owned by Borrower or its
          Subsidiaries as of the Effective Date), and (g) sales of any
          investment assets (including, without limitation, stocks, bonds, cash
          equivalents, etc.) in the ordinary course of business. Prior to
          consummation of any single disposition providing for aggregate
          consideration in excess of $25,000,000, Borrower shall certify to
          Agent that no Default can reasonably be expected to arise by reason of
          such transaction. This Section shall be subject to the limitations set
          forth in Section 8.15 hereof.

         (k) Section 8.6 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:

               8.6 Redemption, Dividends and Distributions. At any time: (a)
          redeem, retire or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any
          equity interest in Borrower other than stock repurchases not
          exceeding, in the aggregate and on a cumulative basis from and after
          the Effective Date, $100,000,000 or (b) make any distributions of any
          Property or cash to the owner of any of the equity interests in
          Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries other than Permitted Dividends.

         (l) Section 8.12 of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:

               8.12 Acquisitions. Without the prior written consent of the
          Majority Lenders, acquire any real Property or any material personal
          Property (including any acquisition of equity interests in another
          Person other than an Obligor or, subject to the provisions of Section
          8.15 hereof, any other Subsidiary of Borrower as of the Effective
          Date) after the Effective Date from any Person other than an Obligor
          if the aggregate cash consideration for transactions would exceed
          twelve and one-half percent (12-1/2%) of the tangible assets of
          Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis and determined
          in accordance with GAAP, in any fiscal year or if the aggregate
          consideration (cash or otherwise) for transactions would exceed
          twenty-five percent (25%) of the tangible assets of Borrower and its
          Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis and determined in accordance
          with GAAP, in any fiscal year. Each such acquisition shall be subject
          to the provisions of Section 8.7 hereof. Notwithstanding anything to
          the contrary set forth in this Section, neither the Borrower nor any
          of its Subsidiaries may acquire any additional equity interests in and
          to the Second Tier Insurance Company Subsidiaries without the prior
          written consent of the Majority Lenders.

         SECTION 2. Reduction of Commitments. The Commitments of the respective
Lenders are hereby reduced to the amounts set forth on Exhibit A hereto.

         SECTION 3. Amendment Fee. No part of this Amendment shall become
effective until the Borrower shall have delivered to the Agent payment to each
Lender of a fee equal to 0.075% of such Lender's Commitment, as amended hereby.

         SECTION 4. Ratification. Except as expressly amended by this Amendment,
the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall remain in full force and
effect. None of the rights, title and interests existing and to exist under the
Loan Agreement are hereby released,

                                       4

<PAGE>

diminished or impaired, and the Borrower hereby reaffirms all covenants,
representations and warranties in the Loan Agreement (except such
representations and warranties which are, by their express terms, limited to a
prior date).

         SECTION 5. Expenses. The Borrower shall pay to the Agent all reasonable
fees and expenses of its respective legal counsel (pursuant to Section 11.3 of
the Loan Agreement) incurred in connection with the execution of this Amendment.

         SECTION 6. New Lenders. From and after the date hereof, Citicorp USA
and Southwest Bank of Texas, N.A. shall constitute "Lenders" under the Loan
Agreement and, by their execution hereof, Citicorp USA and Southwest Bank of
Texas, N.A. acknowledge and agree to the obligations arising therefrom.

         SECTION 7. Certifications. The Borrower hereby certifies that (a) no
material adverse change in the assets, liabilities, financial condition,
business or affairs of the Borrower has occurred since December 31, 2000 and (b)
no uncured Default or uncured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or
will occur as a result of this Amendment.

         SECTION 8. Waiver/Consent. The Agent and the Lenders hereby waive any
Default or Event of Default which may exist as a result of the Borrower's
failure to comply with Section 8.1(vii) of the Loan Agreement for all periods
prior to the date of this Amendment. The waiver granted herein is given solely
for the express purpose stated herein and is not a waiver of any other provision
of the Loan Agreement or for any other period.

         SECTION 9. Miscellaneous. This Amendment (a) shall be binding upon and
inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent and their
respective successors, assigns, receivers and trustees; (b) may be modified or
amended only by a writing signed by the required parties; (c) shall be governed
by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas and the
United States of America; (d) may be executed in several counterparts by the
parties hereto on separate counterparts, and each counterpart, when so executed
and delivered, shall constitute an original agreement, and all such separate
counterparts shall constitute but one and the same agreement and (e) together
with the other Loan Documents, embodies the entire agreement and understanding
between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all
prior agreements, consents and understandings relating to such subject matter.
The headings herein shall be accorded no significance in interpreting this
Amendment.

             NOTICE PURSUANT TO TEX. BUS. & COMM. CODE SECTION 26.02

         THE LOAN AGREEMENT, AS AMENDED BY THIS AMENDMENT, AND ALL OTHER LOAN
DOCUMENTS EXECUTED BY ANY OF THE PARTIES PRIOR HERETO OR SUBSTANTIALLY
CONCURRENTLY HEREWITH CONSTITUTE A WRITTEN LOAN AGREEMENT WHICH REPRESENTS THE
FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF
PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES. THERE ARE
NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES.

                                       5

<PAGE>



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent have caused
this Amendment to be signed by their respective duly authorized officers,
effective as of the date first above written.

Exhibit A -- Reduced Commitments

                                                  HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.,
                                                  a Delaware corporation


                                                  By:  /s/ EDWARD H. ELLIS, JR.
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                       Edward H. Ellis, Jr.,
                                                       Senior Vice President
                                                       and Chief Financial
                                                       Officer

                                       6

<PAGE>



                                                WELLS FARGO BANK TEXAS, NATIONAL
                                                ASSOCIATION, as Administrative
                                                Agent and Lead Arranger and as a
                                                Lender


                                                By:   /s/  JONATHAN C. HOMEYER
                                                      --------------------------
                                                Name:      Jonathan C. Homeyer
                                                      --------------------------
                                                Title:     Vice President
                                                      --------------------------


                                       7

<PAGE>



                                                FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK,
                                                as Syndication Agent and as a
                                                Lender


                                                By:     /s/  DANIEL J. NORTON
                                                      --------------------------
                                                Name:        Daniel J. Norton
                                                      --------------------------
                                                Title:       Director
                                                      --------------------------



                                       8


<PAGE>



                                                BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
                                                as Documentation Agent and as a
                                                Lender


                                                By:     /s/  LESLIE E. REED
                                                      --------------------------
                                                Name:        Leslie E. Reed
                                                      --------------------------
                                                Title:         Vice President
                                                      --------------------------



                                       9



<PAGE>



                                                THE BANK OF NEW YORK,
                                                as Senior Managing Agent and as
                                                a Lender


                                                By:     /s/  BENJAMIN L. BALKIND
                                                      --------------------------
                                                Name:        Benjamin L. Balkind
                                                      --------------------------
                                                Title:       Vice President
                                                      --------------------------







                                       10






<PAGE>



                                                CITICORP USA


                                                By:     /s/  WILLIAM J. CAVANAGH
                                                      --------------------------
                                                Name:        William J. Cavanagh
                                                      --------------------------
                                                Title:       Vice President
                                                      --------------------------



                                       11





<PAGE>



                                                SOUTHWEST BANK OF TEXAS, N.A.


                                                By:     /s/  BENNETT D. DOUGLAS
                                                      --------------------------
                                                Name:        Bennett D. Douglas
                                                      --------------------------
                                                Title:       SVP
                                                      --------------------------





                                       12







<PAGE>



         The undersigned hereby join in this Amendment to evidence their consent
to execution by Borrower of this Amendment, to confirm that each Loan Document
now or previously executed by the undersigned applies and shall continue to
apply to the Loan Agreement, as amended hereby, to acknowledge that without such
consent and confirmation, Lenders would not execute this Amendment and to join
in the notice pursuant to Tex. Bus. & Comm. Code Section 26.02 set forth above.

                                             AVEMCO CORPORATION, a Delaware
                                             corporation, NORTH AMERICAN SPECIAL
                                             RISK ASSOCIATES, INC., an Illinois
                                             corporation, LDG REINSURANCE
                                             CORPORATION, a Massachusetts
                                             corporation, HCC EMPLOYER SERVICES,
                                             INC., an Alabama corporation, HCC
                                             EMPLOYEE BENEFITS, INC., a Delaware
                                             corporation, HCC AVIATION INSURANCE
                                             GROUP, INC., a Texas corporation,
                                             HCC BENEFITS CORPORATION, a
                                             Delaware corporation, HCC
                                             INTERMEDIARIES, INC., a Texas
                                             corporation, HCC INTERMEDIATE
                                             HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware
                                             corporation, THE CENTRIS GROUP,
                                             INC., a Delaware corporation, U.S.
                                             BENEFITS INSURANCE SERVICES, INC.,
                                             a California corporation, and U.S.
                                             HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware
                                             corporation


                                             By:     /s/  EDWARD H. ELLIS, JR.
                                                --------------------------------
                                             Name:        Edward H. Ellis, Jr.
                                                  ------------------------------
                                             Title:       Senior Vice President
                                                   -----------------------------


                                       13
<PAGE>



                                    EXHIBIT A


<Table>
<S>                                                              <C>
Wells Fargo Bank Texas, National Association.....................$45,000,000

First Union National Bank........................................$40,000,000

Bank of America, N.A.............................................$40,000,000

The Bank of New York.............................................$35,000,000

Citicorp USA.....................................................$25,000,000

Southwest Bank of Texas, N.A.....................................$15,000,000
</Table>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.13
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>h95385ex10-13.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FORM OF INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                        INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
                     UNDER THE HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.
                          2001 FLEXIBLE INCENTIVE PLAN


         This STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into
effective as of the date of grant as set forth on the signature page below by
and between HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the
"Company"), and the undersigned employee (the "Employee").

                                   WITNESSETH:

         WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company, with the approval and
authorization of the shareholders thereof, has resolved that the interests of
the Company will be advanced by encouraging and enabling certain of its
employees, directors and consultants and certain employees of its Subsidiaries
(as such term is defined in the Plan) to acquire proprietary shares in the
Company, thus providing them with a more direct concern in the welfare of the
Company and the Subsidiaries and assuring a closer identification of their
interests with those of the Company and the Subsidiaries; and

         WHEREAS, the Board of Directors believes that the acquisition of such
an interest in the Company will stimulate the endeavors of such employees,
directors and consultants on behalf of the Company and the Subsidiaries and
strengthen their desire to remain with the Company and the Subsidiaries; and

         WHEREAS, the Employee above referenced is one of such individuals.

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual
covenants herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the
parties hereto agree as follows:

         1. Option to Purchase. The Company hereby grants to the Employee as a
matter of separate inducement and agreement in connection with such Employee's
employment by the Company or the Subsidiaries, and not in lieu of any salary or
other compensation for such Employee's services, the right and option to
purchase, at the time and on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth,
that number of shares of the presently authorized Common Stock of the Company at
the per-share purchase price set forth on the signature page of this Agreement.

         2. The Plan. The option provided for in this Agreement is granted
pursuant to the HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 2001 Flexible Incentive Plan (the
"Plan") as of the date of grant specified on the signature page of this
Agreement (the "Date of Grant"). The terms and provisions of such Plan are
incorporated herein by reference and, except to the extent expressly provided by
the Plan, in the event of any conflict between the terms and provisions of this
Agreement and those of the Plan, the terms and provisions of the Plan, including
without limitation, those with respect to the powers of the administrative
committee appointed thereunder (hereinafter referred to as the "Committee"),
shall prevail and be controlling. All capitalized terms not otherwise defined
herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.




                                       1
<PAGE>

         3. Term of Option. This option shall continue until 11:59 p.m. Houston
time on the date of expiration specified on the signature page of this Agreement
(the "Date of Expiration"), except and to the extent that such term may be
reduced as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 11 hereof; provided, however, that if
any termination date provided for herein shall fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or
legal holiday, then such termination date shall be deemed to be the first normal
business day of the Company, at its office specified in Paragraph 18 hereof,
before such Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.

         4. Vesting. Except as otherwise provided herein, this option shall be
exercisable on or prior to the Date of Expiration, and only to the extent of
shares that have vested in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth on the
signature page of this Agreement. The Employee's right to exercise the option
granted hereunder accrues only in accordance with the preceding sentence and,
except as otherwise provided herein, only to the extent that the Employee
remains in the continuous employ of the Company or the Subsidiaries. This option
shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the Employee only by the Employee.
In the event of the Employee's death during the Employee's employment with the
Company or its Subsidiaries and the unexpired term of this option, this option
shall vest in full and become exercisable to the full extent of this option as
of the date of the Employee's death. In no event may the Employee or any person
exercising this option pursuant to Paragraph 6(e) hereof exercise this option
(before or after any adjustment or substitution pursuant to Paragraph 10, 11, or
12 hereof) for a fraction of a share.

         5. Manner of Exercise.

            (a) Subject to the terms hereof, the option granted hereby may be
         exercised by delivering to the Treasurer of the Company or his designee
         at any time prior to the Date of Expiration a written notice specifying
         the number of vested shares the Employee then desires to purchase.

            (b) The Employee shall deliver to the Treasurer of the Company or
         his designee a cashier's check payable in United States currency
         (unless a personal check shall be acceptable to such officer) to the
         order of the Company for an amount equal to the purchase price for such
         number of shares; or, certificates for Common Stock of the Company
         (provided such Common Stock has been held by the Employee for such
         period of time, if any, as is required by the Committee), valued at the
         Fair Market Value of such Common Stock on the date of exercise of this
         option or a combination of both, as payment of all or any portion of
         the option price for such number of shares. The check or, if
         applicable, the certificates, shall be accompanied by such other
         instruments or agreements duly signed by the Employee as in the opinion
         of counsel for the Company may be necessary or advisable in order that
         the issuance of such number of shares comply with applicable rules and
         regulations under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"),
         any appropriate state securities laws, or any requirement of any
         national securities exchange on which such stock may be traded. As soon
         as practicable after any such exercise of the option in whole or in
         part by the Employee, the Company will deliver to the Employee a
         certificate for the number of shares with respect to which the option
         shall have been so exercised, issued in the Employee's name. Such stock
         certificate shall carry such restrictive legend, and such written
         instructions shall be given to the Company's transfer agent, as the
         Company may deem necessary or advisable for any purpose,



                                       2
<PAGE>

         including, without limitation, compliance with the requirements of the
         Act or any state securities laws.

         6. Termination of Employment.

            (a) In the event the employment of the Employee is terminated
         for any reason other than death, Disability, Retirement, voluntary
         termination Without Good Reason (as hereinafter defined), or for cause
         (as determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion),
         then the Employee shall have the right at any time within ninety (90)
         days after the termination of such employment or, if shorter, during
         the unexpired term of this option, to exercise this option for the full
         number of shares or any portion thereof, except as to the issuance of
         fractional shares, but only to the extent this option was otherwise
         exercisable in accordance with Paragraph 4 hereof on the date of such
         cessation of employment.

            (b) In the event the employment of the Employee is terminated for
         cause (which determination shall be made in the sole and absolute
         discretion of the Committee), the Employee shall have the right at any
         time within ten (10) days after the termination of such employment or,
         if shorter, during the unexpired term of this option, to exercise this
         option for the full number of shares not previously exercised or any
         portion thereof, except as to the issuance of fractional shares, but
         only to the extent this option was otherwise exercisable in accordance
         with Paragraph 4 hereof as of the date of such termination of
         employment for cause.

            (c) In the event the employment of the Employee is terminated by
         reason of Disability, then the Employee shall have the right at any
         time within one year after the termination of such employment or, if
         shorter, during the unexpired term of this option, to exercise this
         option for the full number of shares not previously exercised or any
         portion thereof, except as to the issuance of fractional shares, to the
         full extent of this option.

            (d) In the event of the death of the Employee while in the employ of
         the Company or the Subsidiaries or within ninety (90) days after the
         date Employee ceases to be an employee of the Company or the Subsidiary
         (or within such lesser period as may be specified in Paragraphs 6(b)
         and 6(e) hereof, as applicable), this option may be exercised for the
         full number of shares not previously exercised, or any portion thereof,
         except as to the issuance of fractional shares, but only to the extent
         this option was otherwise exercisable in accordance with Paragraph 4
         hereof as of the date of Employee's death, at any time within one year
         from the date of death of the Employee or within the unexpired term of
         this option, whichever is shorter, by the person or persons to whom the
         Employee's rights under this option shall pass by the Employee's will
         or by the laws of descent and distribution, whichever is applicable.

            (e) In the event the Employee voluntarily terminates employment
         Without Good Reason (as hereinafter defined), the Employee shall have
         the right at any time within ten (10) days after the termination of
         such employment or, if shorter, during the unexpired term of this
         option, to exercise this option for the full number of shares not
         previously exercised or any portion thereof, except as to the issuance
         of fractional shares,



                                       3
<PAGE>

         but only to the extent this option was otherwise exercisable in
         accordance with Paragraph 4 hereof as of the date of such voluntary
         termination of employment. For purposes of this Section, "Without Good
         Reason" means the Employee's voluntary termination of employment for
         any reason and in any circumstance other than (x) the Employee's
         termination of employment for Good Reason (as defined in Paragraph
         11(b)(ii)(B)) after a Change of Control or (y) the Employee's voluntary
         termination of employment within sixty (60) days after the occurrence
         of any of the following events:

                  (i) A reduction in excess of 20% in any one calendar year of
            the Employee's total base salary;

                  (ii) A significant reduction in the Employee's entitlement to
            any employee benefits (other than a reduction in benefits which is
            required by applicable law or that applies in substantially the same
            manner to all similarly situated employees);

                  (iii) A relocation of the Employee to any place exceeding the
            distance of one hundred (100) miles from the place to which the
            Employee customarily reported prior to such relocation (other than
            reasonably required, temporary business travel); or

                  (iv) The failure by the Company to obtain the assumption of
            this Agreement by any successor or assign of the Company (unless
            this Agreement would otherwise terminate prior to or in connection
            with the event resulting in such succession or assignment).

            (f) In the event the Employee voluntarily terminates employment
         within sixty (60) days after the occurrence of any of the events set
         forth in Paragraph 6 (e) (y) hereof, then the Employee shall have the
         right at any time within ninety (90) days after the termination of such
         employment, or if shorter, during the unexpired term of this option, to
         exercise this option for the full number of shares not previously
         exercised or any portion thereof, except as to the issuance of
         fractional shares, but only to the extent this option was otherwise
         exercisable in accordance with Paragraph 4 hereof on the date of such
         cessation of employment.

            (g) In the event of the termination of the Employee's employment on
         or after the attainment of age 65 (or such other age as is permitted
         for the Employee by the Committee in its sole discretion) and provided
         Employee does not engage in full time employment with any other entity
         ("Retirement"), the Employee shall have the right at any time within
         one year after such Retirement or, if shorter, during the unexpired
         term of this option, to exercise this option for the full number of
         shares not previously exercised or any portion thereof, except as to
         the issuance of fractional shares, but only to the extent this option
         was otherwise exercisable in accordance with Paragraph 4 hereof as of
         the date of exercise.

         7. Shares Issued. Shares to be issued on the exercise of this option
may, at the election of the Company, be either authorized and unissued shares,
or shares previously issued and reacquired by the Company.




                                       4
<PAGE>

         8. Delivery of Certificates. The Company shall not be required to issue
or deliver any certificates for shares purchased upon the exercise of this
option prior to: (i) the obtaining of any approval from any governmental agency
which the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or
advisable; (ii) the completion of any registration or other qualification of
such shares under any state or federal law or ruling or regulation of any
governmental body which the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to
be necessary or advisable; and (iii) the determination by the Committee that the
Employee has tendered to the Company any federal, state or local tax owed by
Employee as a result of exercising this option when the Company has a legal
liability to satisfy such tax. In addition, if shares reserved for issuance upon
the exercise of this option shall not then be registered under the Act, the
Company may, upon Employee's exercise of this option, require Employee or his
permitted transferee to represent in writing that the shares being acquired are
for investment and not with a view to distribution, and may mark the certificate
for the shares with a legend restricting transfer and may issue stop transfer
orders relating to such certificate to the Company's transfer agent.

         9. Taxes. In connection with the exercise of the option by the Employee
and, as a condition to the Company's obligation to deliver shares upon exercise
of the option, the Employee shall make arrangements satisfactory to the
Committee to insure that the amount of the federal withholding tax, if any,
required to be withheld with respect to delivery of the shares is made available
by the Employee for timely payment of the tax by the Company to the United
States Government.

         10. Certain Adjustments. In the event that, prior to the delivery of
all of the shares in respect to which this option is granted, there shall be any
change in the outstanding Common Stock of the Company, through recapitalization,
reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, amendment to the Company's
Certificate of Incorporation or reverse stock split, an appropriate and
proportionate adjustment shall be made in the number and/or kind of securities
allocated to the option hereby granted, without change in the aggregate purchase
price applicable to the unexercised portion of the option, but with a
corresponding adjustment in the number and price for each share covered by the
option. Such adjustments shall be made by the Committee, whose determination in
the matter shall be conclusive and binding on the Company, the Employee and the
Employee's legal representative.

         11. Reorganization.

             (a) In the event that, prior to the delivery of all the shares in
         respect of which this option is granted, a Reorganization of the
         Company shall occur, as defined in Section 2.3 of the Plan:

                  (i) If provision be made in writing in connection with the
             Reorganization for the assumption and continuance of the option
             hereby granted, or the substitution for such option of a new option
             covering the shares of the successor employer corporation, with
             appropriate adjustment as to the number and kind of shares and
             prices, the option hereby granted, or the new option substituted
             therefor, as the case may be, shall continue in the manner and
             under the terms provided.




                                       5
<PAGE>

                  (ii) In the event provision is not made in connection with a
             Reorganization for the continuance and assumption of the option
             granted under the Plan or for the substitution of an option
             covering the shares of the successor employer corporation, then the
             Employee shall be entitled, prior to the effective date of any such
             reorganization and notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 4
             hereof (except as to the issuance of fractional shares), to
             purchase the full number of shares not previously exercised under
             such option, without regard to the determination as to the periods
             and installments of exercisability made pursuant to the Plan if
             (and only if) such option has not at that time expired or been
             terminated.

         (b) In the event that, prior to the delivery of all the shares in
      respect of which this option is granted, a Change of Control of the
      Company shall occur, as defined in Section 2.3 of the Plan, other than a
      Change of Control which is a Reorganization described in Paragraph
      11(a)(ii) hereof, then, notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 4
      hereof (except as to the issuance of fractional shares), the Employee
      shall be entitled to purchase the full number of shares not previously
      exercised under this option, without regard to the determination as to the
      period and installments of exercisability made pursuant to the Plan if
      (and only if):

                  (i) such option has not at that time expired or been
             terminated; and

                  (ii) the employment of the Employee is terminated (x) by the
             Company Without Cause (as hereafter defined) within one year after
             the Change of Control or (y) by the Employee for Good Reason (as
             hereafter defined) within six months after the Change of Control.
             The term of this option shall not be affected by a Change of
             Control, provided, however, that upon termination of employment,
             including a termination of employment following a Change of
             Control, the period for exercising this option shall be as provided
             in Paragraph 6 hereof. For purposes of this Paragraph:

                       (A) "Without Cause" means the termination of the
                  Employee's employment for any reason other than:

                            (I) material dishonesty which is not the result of
                       an inadvertent or innocent mistake of the Employee with
                       respect to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;

                            (II) willful misfeasance or nonfeasance of duty by
                       the Employee intended to injure or have the effect of
                       injuring in a material fashion the reputation, business,
                       or business relationships of the Company or any of its
                       Subsidiaries; or

                            (III) the Employee's conviction of any felony, any
                       crime involving moral turpitude, or any crime other than
                       a vehicular offense which has a material adverse effect
                       on the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.




                                       6
<PAGE>

                       (B) "Good Reason" means the termination of the Employee's
                  employment within sixty (60) days after the occurrence of any
                  of the following events:

                            (I) a material alteration in the nature or status of
                       the Employee's title, duties or responsibilities, or the
                       assignment of duties or responsibilities inconsistent
                       with the Employee's status, title, or other duties and
                       responsibilities;

                            (II) a reduction in excess of 20% in any one
                       calendar year of the Employee's total base salary;

                            (III) a significant reduction in the Employee's
                       entitlement to any employee benefits (other than a
                       reduction in benefits which is required by applicable
                       law);

                            (IV) the relocation of the Employee to any place
                       exceeding a distance of one hundred (100) miles from the
                       place to which the Employee customarily reported prior to
                       the Change of Control (other than reasonably required,
                       temporary business travel); or

                            (V) the failure by the Company to obtain the
                       assumption of this Agreement by any successor or assign
                       of the Company (unless this Agreement would otherwise
                       terminate prior to or in connection with the event
                       resulting in such succession or assignment).

              (c) All adjustments under this Section shall be made by the
      Committee, whose determination as to what adjustments shall be made and
      the extent thereof, shall be final, binding and conclusive on the Company,
      the Employee and the Employee's legal representatives.

      12. Merger or Consolidation. In the event that, prior to the delivery of
all of the shares in respect to which this option is granted, there shall be a
merger or consolidation of the Company in which the Company is the surviving
corporation and, if as a result thereof, outstanding shares of Common Stock of
the Company are changed, converted or exchanged, then there shall be substituted
for each share of stock subject to the option granted hereby the number, kind or
amount of shares of stock or other securities or cash, property, rights or
obligations into which the outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company
shall be so changed, converted or exchanged as a result of such merger or
consolidation. In the case of any such substitution or adjustment as provided in
this paragraph, the option price referred to in this Agreement for the shares
covered hereby shall be the option price for the shares or other securities or
cash, property, rights or obligations which shall have been substituted for the
shares covered hereby or to which such shares shall have been adjusted. Any
adjustment or substitutions pursuant to this paragraph shall be made by the
Committee, whose determination in the matter shall be conclusive and binding on
the Company, the Employee and his legal representatives.




                                       7
<PAGE>


         13. Forfeiture of Option Gain. The purpose of the Plan is to attract,
retain and reward employees; to increase stock ownership and identification with
the Company's interests; and to provide incentive for remaining with and
enhancing the value of the Company and its Subsidiaries over the long-term. The
Employee hereby acknowledges that in the course of employment with the Company,
the Employee will be provided access to certain confidential and proprietary
information and knowledge relating to the operation, products, and services of
the Company and the Subsidiaries and will be trained and instructed in the
unique business methods of the Company and the Subsidiaries. The Employee
further acknowledges that in the course of employment with the Company, the
Employee will be entrusted with customer lists, financial information, and other
confidential information regarding the Company's and the Subsidiaries' financial
performance, shareholders, business plans, product development, product and
system configurations, and other business methods and functions considered
proprietary by the Company. As consideration for the above described training
and access to confidential information and for the grant of this option, the
Employee hereby agrees to the following:

                  (a) If, at any time within (x) the term of the Option or (y)
         within one year after termination of the Employee's employment with the
         Company and all Subsidiaries or (z) within one year after the Employee
         exercises any portion of the Option, whichever is the latest to occur,
         the Employee engages in any activity IN COMPETITION WITH ANY ACTIVITY
         OF THE COMPANY (OR ITS SUBSIDIARIES), or inimical, contrary or harmful
         to the interests of the Company (or its Subsidiaries), including, but
         not limited to:

                  (i) conduct related to the Employee's employment for which
              either criminal or civil penalties may be sought against the
              Employee;

                  (ii) violation of the policies of the Company, including,
              without limitation, the Company's insider trading policy;

                  (iii) disclosing or misusing any confidential information or
              material concerning the Company;

                  (iv) participating in a hostile takeover attempt;

                  (V) DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY OWNING, MANAGING, OPERATING,
              CONTROLLING, INVESTING, OR ACQUIRING AN INTEREST IN, OR OTHERWISE
              ENGAGING OR PARTICIPATING (WHETHER ALONE OR WITH ANY OTHER PERSON
              OR ENTITY AS A PROPRIETOR, PARTNER, STOCKHOLDER, MEMBER, DIRECTOR,
              OFFICER, EMPLOYEE, JOINT VENTURER, INVESTOR, CONSULTANT, AGENT,
              SALES REPRESENTATIVE, BROKER OR OTHER PARTICIPANT) IN ANY
              COMPETITIVE BUSINESS (AS HEREAFTER DEFINED) OPERATING IN, OR
              SOLICITING BUSINESS FROM, THE COMPANY'S MARKET (AS HEREAFTER
              DEFINED), WITHOUT REGARD TO WHETHER (A) THE COMPETITIVE BUSINESS
              HAS ITS OFFICE OR OTHER BUSINESS FACILITIES WITHIN THE COMPANY'S
              MARKET, (B) ANY OF THE ACTIVITIES OF THE EMPLOYEE REFERRED TO
              ABOVE OCCUR OR ARE PERFORMED WITHIN THE COMPANY'S MARKET, OR (C)
              THE EMPLOYEE RESIDES, OR REPORTS TO AN OFFICE OR OTHER PLACE OF
              BUSINESS, WITHIN THE COMPANY'S MARKET;




                                       8
<PAGE>

                  (vi) (A) directly or indirectly diverting or attempting to
              divert business with respect to which the Employee had contact or
              special knowledge from the Company and/or the Subsidiaries; (B)
              calling on, soliciting, or attempting to solicit any business with
              respect to which the Employee had contact or special knowledge
              away from the Company and/or the Subsidiaries; or (C) otherwise
              dealing with any account or customer of the Company and/or the
              Subsidiaries with respect to any products or services provided by
              the Company and/or the Subsidiaries during the period when the
              Employee was employed by the Company or the Subsidiaries if the
              Employee had contact or special knowledge with respect to the
              account or customer and the product or service;

                  (vii) requesting, inducing, or attempting to induce anywhere
              in the world any customer, distributor, broker, agent, or supplier
              of the Company and/or any of the Subsidiaries or any other person
              or entity doing business with the Company and/or any of the
              Subsidiaries, to limit, curtail, or cancel its business with the
              Company and/or the Subsidiaries or not to do business with the
              Company and/or the Subsidiaries; provided the Employee had contact
              with or special knowledge of such customer, distributor, broker,
              agent, supplier, or other person or entity during the period when
              the Employee was employed by the Company and/or the Subsidiaries;

                  (viii) requesting, inducing, or attempting to induce anywhere
              in the world any employee, consultant, advisor, or agent of the
              Company and/or any of the Subsidiaries to terminate or limit his
              or her relationship with the Company and/or the Subsidiaries or
              not to enter into any such relationship; and

                  (ix) making any statement (orally or in writing) about the
              Company and/or any Subsidiary or any service or product of the
              Company and/or the Subsidiaries which statement is false and may
              reasonably be expected to be detrimental to the Company and/or the
              Subsidiaries;

then (xx) this option shall terminate effective as of the date on which the
Employee engages in such activity, unless terminated sooner by operation of
another term or condition of this Agreement or the Plan and (yy) any option gain
realized by the Employee from exercising all or a portion of the option, or such
lesser amount as shall be determined to be the maximum reasonable and
enforceable amount by a court or arbitrator, shall be paid by the Employee to
the Company. FOR PURPOSES OF THIS AGREEMENT, "COMPETITIVE BUSINESS" MEANS ANY
PERSON OR ENTITY ENGAGED IN A BUSINESS THAT PRODUCES ANY OF THE PRODUCTS OR
PERFORMS ANY OF THE SERVICES COMPRISING, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, THE BUSINESS OF
THE COMPANY AND THE SUBSIDIARIES AND ANY PREDECESSORS OR SUCCESSORS OF EITHER
BEING CONDUCTED DURING THE TERM OF THIS AGREEMENT AND/OR ON THE DATE OF THE
EMPLOYEE'S TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT WITH THE COMPANY AND THE SUBSIDIARIES. FOR
PURPOSES OF THIS AGREEMENT, "COMPANY'S MARKET" MEANS ANY GEOGRAPHIC REGION IN
WHICH THE EMPLOYEE CONDUCTED OR DEVELOPED ANY BUSINESS ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY
AND/OR THE SUBSIDIARIES WHILE THE EMPLOYEE WAS EMPLOYED BY THE COMPANY AND/OR
THE SUBSIDIARIES.

              (b) By accepting this Agreement, the Employee consents to a
      deduction from any amounts the Company (and the Subsidiaries) owe the
      Employee from time to time



                                       9
<PAGE>

      (including amounts owed to the Employee as wages or other compensation,
      fringe benefits, or vacation pay) to the extent of the amounts the
      Employee owes the Company under this Paragraph. Without regard to whether
      the Company elects to make any set-off in whole or in part, if the Company
      does not recover by means of set-off the full amount owed to it by the
      Employee, calculated as set forth above, the Employee agrees to pay
      immediately the unpaid balance to the Company.

              (c) The Employee may be released in whole or in part from the
      obligations under this Paragraph only if the Board of Directors or the
      Compensation Committee thereof (or its duly appointed agent) determines in
      its sole discretion that such action is in the best interests of the
      Company.

      14. No Shareholder Rights. Neither the Employee nor his legal
representative shall be or have any of the rights or privileges of a shareholder
of the Company in respect to any of the shares issuable upon the exercise of
this option unless and until certificates representing such shares shall have
been issued and delivered to the Employee.

      15. No Employment Obligation. Neither the granting of this option, the
exercise of any part hereof, nor any provision of this Agreement shall
constitute or be evidence of any understanding, express or implied, on the part
of the Company to employ the Employee for any specified period.

      16. Non-Transferability. This option shall, by its terms, be
nontransferable by the Employee other than by will or the laws of descent and
distribution. During the Employee's lifetime, the option shall be exercisable
only by the Employee or by the Employee's duly appointed guardian or personal
representative.

      17. Construction. The Committee shall have authority to make reasonable
constructions of this option and to correct any defect or supply any omission or
reconcile any inconsistency in this option, and to prescribe reasonable rules
and regulations relating to the administration of this option and other similar
options granted under the Plan.

      18. Notices. Any notice relating to this Agreement shall be in writing and
delivered in person or by registered mail to the Company at the Company's
principal office, 13403 Northwest Freeway, Houston, Texas 77040-6094, or to such
other address as may be hereafter specified by the Company, to the attention of
its Treasurer. All notices to the Employee or other person or persons then
entitled to exercise the option shall be delivered to the Employee or such other
person or persons at the Employee's address specified on the signature page of
this Agreement.

      19. Confidentiality. The Employee agrees that, as partial consideration
for the granting of this option, the Employee will keep confidential all
information and knowledge which the Employee has relating to the manner and
amount of the Employee's participation in the Plan; provided, however, that such
information may be given in confidence to the Employee's spouse or to a
financial institution to the extent that such information is necessary in order
to secure a loan.




                                       10
<PAGE>

      20. Effect of Payment. Any payment or any issuance or transfer of shares
of the Common Stock to the Employee or the Employee's legal representative,
heir, legatee or distributee, in accordance with the provisions hereof, shall,
to the extent thereof, be in full satisfaction of all claims of such person
hereunder. The Committee may require the Employee, legal representative, heir,
legatee or distributee, as a condition precedent to such payment, to execute a
release and receipt therefor in such form as it shall determine.

      21. Incentive Stock Option. This option is intended to qualify as an
"incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code, and
shall be so construed; provided, however, that nothing in this Agreement shall
be interpreted as a representation, guarantee, or other understanding on the
part of the Company that this option is or will be determined to be an
"incentive stock option" within the meaning of that or any other section of the
Code.

      22. Miscellaneous. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be
illegal, invalid, or unenforceable under any applicable laws, the legality,
validity, and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall
not be affected thereby, and in lieu of such illegal, invalid, or unenforceable
provision, there shall be added automatically as a part of this Agreement a
provision as similar in terms to such illegal, invalid, or unenforceable
provision as may be possible and be legal, valid and enforceable. This Agreement
constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof and no provision hereof may be amended, modified or waived except
by a written agreement signed by the parties. This Agreement may be executed in
any number of counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same
instrument. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
the laws of the State of Texas, without regard to the conflicts of laws
principles thereof, to the maximum extent practicable calls for performance and
shall be performable at the offices of the Company in Houston, Harris County,
Texas and venue for any dispute arising hereunder shall lie exclusively in the
state and/or federal courts of Harris County, Texas and the Southern District of
Texas, Houston Division, respectively.

      23. EXPIRATION OF AGREEMENT. IF THIS AGREEMENT IS NOT SIGNED AND RETURNED
TO OUR OFFICES WITHIN 30 DAYS OF THE DATE OF EMPLOYEE'S RECEIPT OF THIS
AGREEMENT, THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OPTION PROVIDED FOR HEREIN IS NULL AND VOID.




                                       11
<PAGE>

                          2001 FLEXIBLE INCENTIVE PLAN
                                 TERMS OF OPTION


1.    Date of Grant:
                                               --------------------------
2.    Date of Expiration:
                                               --------------------------
3.    Number of shares subject to option:
                                               --------------------------
4.    Per share purchase price of option:
                                               --------------------------
5.    Vesting schedule of option:



<Table>
<Caption>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   Cumulative Portion of Shares       Cumulative Number of Shares Subject
                                               Subject to Option that is Vested On      to Option that is Vested On and
                                                  and After Such Anniversary and       After Such Anniversary and Before
        Anniversary of Date of Grant                 Before Next Anniversary                   Next Anniversary
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>                                    <C>
                    First                                      20%                                    20%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Second                                      40%                                    40%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Third                                      60%                                    60%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Fourth                                      80%                                    80%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Fifth                                      100%                                  100%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</Table>


         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have duly executed this Agreement
effective as of the Date of Grant set forth above.


COMPANY:                                   EMPLOYEE:

HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.,
a Delaware corporation
                                           -------------------------------------
                                           Printed Name
By:
   -------------------------------
Name:                                      -------------------------------------
     -----------------------------         Street Address (No P.O. Box please)
Title:
      ----------------------------
                                           -------------------------------------
                                           City, State and Zip Code



              [SIGNATURE PAGE TO INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT]




                                       12

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.18
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>h95385ex10-18.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - EDWARD H ELLIS JR
<TEXT>
<PAGE>


                              EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

         This EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into effective as of
the 1st day of January, 2002 (the "Effective Date"), between HCC INSURANCE
HOLDINGS, INC. ("HCC" or the "Company"), and Edward H. Ellis, Jr.

("Executive"), sometimes collectively referred to herein as the "Parties."

                                    RECITALS:

         WHEREAS, Executive is to be employed as Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer;

         WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Board of Directors of HCC (the
"Board") to directly engage Executive as an officer of HCC and its subsidiaries;

         WHEREAS, Executive is desirous of committing himself to serve HCC on
the terms herein provided; and

         WHEREAS, Executive and HCC have previously entered into an Employment
Agreement dated effective January 5, 2000 (the "2000 Contract") which is to be
cancelled, terminated and be of no further force or effect;

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the respective
covenants and agreements set forth below, the Parties agree as follows:

         1. TERMINATION OF 2000 CONTRACT AND TERM. Effective as of the Effective
Date, the 2000 Contract shall be cancelled, terminated and be of no further
force or effect. The Company hereby agrees to employ Executive as Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, and Executive hereby agrees to accept
such employment, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, for the period
commencing on the Effective Date and expiring as of 11:59 p.m. on December 31,
2006 (the "Basic Term") (unless sooner terminated as hereinafter set forth).

         2. DUTIES.

          (a) DUTIES AS EMPLOYEE OF THE COMPANY. Executive shall, subject to the
supervision of the President of the Company, act as Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of HCC in the ordinary course of its business with all
such powers with respect to such management and control as may be reasonably
incident to such responsibilities. During normal business hours, Executive shall
devote his full time and attention to diligently attending to the business of
the Company during the Basic Term. During the Basic Term, Executive shall not
directly or indirectly render any services of a business, commercial, or
professional nature to any other person, firm, corporation, or organization,
whether for compensation or otherwise, without the



<PAGE>

prior written consent of the President of HCC. However, Executive shall have the
right to engage in such activities as may be appropriate in order to manage his
personal investments so long as such activities do not materially interfere or
conflict with the performance of his duties to the Company hereunder. The
conduct of such activity shall not be deemed to materially interfere or conflict
with Executive's performance of his duties until Executive has been notified in
writing thereof and given a reasonable period in which to cure the same.

          (b) OTHER DUTIES. If elected, Executive agrees to serve as a member of
such managerial Committees of HCC and of any of its subsidiaries and in one or
more executive offices of any of HCC's subsidiaries, provided Executive is
indemnified for serving in any and all such capacities in a manner acceptable to
the Company and Executive. If elected, Executive agrees that he shall not be
entitled to receive any compensation for serving as a director of HCC, or in any
capacities of HCC's subsidiaries other than the compensation to be paid to
Executive by the Company pursuant to this Agreement.

         3. COMPENSATION AND RELATED MATTERS.

          (a) BASE SALARY. Executive shall receive a base salary paid by the
Company as follows: $325,000 in the year 2002 and increasing by $25,000 per year
in each calendar year thereafter for the Basic Term in substantially equal
monthly installments. For purposes of this Agreement, "Base Salary" shall mean
the Executive's initial base salary or, if increased, then the increased base
salary.

          (b) BONUS PAYMENTS AND OPTIONS.

               (i) Bonus Payments. Executive shall be eligible to receive, in
addition to the Base Salary, an annual cash and/or stock bonus payment in
amount, which may be zero, to be determined at the sole discretion of the
Compensation Committee.

               (ii) Options: Executive shall receive options to acquire 100,000
shares of the Company's common stock. Such options shall vest in five (5) equal
annual installments commencing on the first anniversary of the Effective Date.
Such options shall expire on the sixth anniversary of the Effective Date. The
options shall be granted pursuant to the Company's existing Stock Option Plans.

          (c) EXPENSES. During the Basic Term, Executive shall be entitled to
receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by him (in
accordance with the policies and procedures established by the Board for the
Company's senior executive officers) in performing services hereunder, provided
that Executive properly accounts therefor in accordance with Company policy.

          (d) OTHER BENEFITS. Executive shall be entitled to participate in or
receive benefits under any compensation, employee benefit plan, or other
arrangement made generally available by the Company now or in the future to its
senior executive officers, subject to and on a basis consistent with the terms,
conditions, and overall administration of such plan or arrangement. Nothing paid
to Executive under any plan or arrangement presently in effect or made available
in the future shall be deemed to be in lieu of the Base Salary payable to
Executive pursuant to Paragraph (a) of this

                                       2

<PAGE>

Section. The Company shall not make any changes in any employee benefit plans or
other arrangements in effect on the date hereof or subsequently in effect in
which Executive currently or in the future participates (including, without
limitation, each pension and retirement plan, supplemental pension and
retirement plan, savings and profit sharing plan, stock or unit ownership plan,
stock or unit purchase plan, stock or unit option plan, life insurance plan,
medical insurance plan, disability plan, dental plan, health and accident plan,
or any other similar plan or arrangement) that would adversely affect
Executive's rights or benefits thereunder, unless such change occurs pursuant to
a program applicable to executives of the Company and does not result in a
proportionately greater reduction in the rights of or benefits to Executive as
compared with any other executive of the Company.

          (e) VACATIONS. Executive shall be entitled to twenty (20) paid
vacation days per year during the Basic Term. There shall be no carryover of
unused vacation from year to year. For purposes of this Paragraph, weekends
shall not count as vacation days, and Executive shall also be entitled to all
paid holidays given by the Company to its senior executive officers.

          (f) PERQUISITES. Executive shall be entitled to receive the
perquisites and fringe benefits provided generally to an executive officer of
HCC in accordance with any practice established by the Board.

          (g) PRORATION. Any payments or benefits payable to Executive hereunder
in respect of any calendar year during which Executive is employed by the
Company for less than the entire year, unless otherwise provided in the
applicable plan or arrangement, shall be prorated in accordance with the number
of days in such calendar year during which he is so employed. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, any payments pursuant to Paragraph 4(c) or 4(d) this Agreement
shall not be subject to proration.

         4. TERMINATION.

          (a) DEFINITIONS.

               (1) "CAUSE" shall mean:

                    (i) Material dishonesty which is not the result of an
          inadvertent or innocent mistake of Executive with respect to the
          Company or any of its subsidiaries;

                    (ii) Willful misfeasance or nonfeasance of duty by Executive
          intended to injure or having the effect of injuring in some material
          fashion the reputation, business, or business relationships of the
          Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective
          officers, directors, or employees;

                    (iii) Material violation by Executive of any material term
          of this Agreement;

                                       3

<PAGE>

                    (iv) Conviction of Executive of any felony, any crime
          involving moral turpitude or any crime other than a vehicular offense
          which could reflect in some material fashion unfavorably upon the
          Company or any of its subsidiaries.

          Executive may not be terminated for Cause unless and until there has
          been delivered to Executive written notice from the Board supplying
          the particulars of his acts or omissions that the Board believes
          constitute Cause, a reasonable period of time (not less than 30 days)
          has been given to Executive after such notice to either cure the same
          or to meet with the Board with his attorney if so desired by
          Executive, and following which the Board furnishes to Executive a
          written resolution specifying in detail its findings that Executive
          has been terminated for Cause as of the date set forth in the notice
          to Executive.

               (2) A "CHANGE OF CONTROL" shall be deemed to have
occurred if:

                         (i) Any "person" or "group" (within the meaning of
          Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934)
          other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an
          employee benefit plan of the Company becomes the "beneficial owner"
          (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934),
          directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the Company's then
          outstanding voting common stock; or

                         (ii) The shareholders of the Company approve a merger
          or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than
          a merger or consolidation (a) in which a majority of the directors of
          the surviving entity were directors of the Company prior to such
          consolidation or merger, or (b) which would result in the voting
          securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto
          continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being
          changed into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 50%
          of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the surviving
          entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or

                         (iii) The shareholders approve a plan of complete
          liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition
          by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.

               (3) A "DISABILITY" shall mean the absence of Executive from
Executive's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180 consecutive
days, or 180 days in a 365-day period, as a result of incapacity due to mental
or physical illness which results in the Executive being unable to perform the
essential functions of his position, with or without reasonable accommodation.

               (4) A "GOOD REASON" shall mean any of the following (without
Executive's express written consent):

                    (i) Within six (6) months following a Change of Control,
          there is a material alteration in the nature or status of Executive's
          duties or responsibilities, or the

                                       4

<PAGE>

          assignment of duties or responsibilities inconsistent with,
          Executive's status, duties or responsibilities (a "Material
          Alteration");

                    (ii) A failure by the Company to continue in effect any
          employee benefit plan in which Executive was participating, or the
          taking of any action by the Company that would adversely affect
          Executive's participation in, or materially reduce Executive's
          benefits under, any such employee benefit plan, unless such failure or
          such taking of any action adversely affects the management of the
          Company generally;

                    (iii) Executive's relocation to any place, other than the
          executive offices as a result of the Company relocating its executive
          offices, exceeding a distance of fifty (50) miles from the Company's
          current executive office located in Houston, Texas, except for
          reasonably required travel by Executive on the Company's business;

                    (iv) Any material breach by the Company of any material
          provision of this Agreement; or

                    (v) Any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and
          performance of this Agreement by any successor (by merger,
          consolidation, or otherwise) or assign of the Company.

However, Good Reason shall exist with respect to an above specified matter only
if (i) such matter relates to subparagraphs (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) hereof, and
it is not corrected by the Company within thirty (30) days after the Company's
receipt of written notice of such matter from Executive or (ii) if there is a
Material Alteration and it relates to subparagraph (i) hereof, such matter is
not corrected after receipt of written notice by the later of thirty (30)days
following receipt of the written notice, or six months following the Change of
Control; and in no event shall a termination by Executive occurring more than
the later of ninety (90) days following the date of the event described above or
sixty (60) days after the end of the six months following a Change of Control be
a termination for Good Reason due to such event.

               (5) "TERMINATION DATE" shall mean the date Executive terminates
or is terminated for any reason pursuant to this Agreement.

          (b) TERMINATION WITHOUT CAUSE OR FOR GOOD REASON: BENEFITS. In the
event there is a termination by the Company without Cause, or if Executive
terminates for Good Reason (a "Termination Event"), this Agreement shall
terminate and Executive shall be entitled to the following severance benefits:

               (1) For the remainder of the Basic Term after the Termination
     Date, Base Salary (as defined in Paragraph 3(a)), payable in a lump sum,
     appropriately discounted to take into consideration the lump sum early
     payment;

               (2) If there is a Termination Event, any stock options ("Stock
     Awards") which Executive has received under this Agreement or otherwise
     shall vest immediately and

                                       5

<PAGE>

     all such Stock Awards shall be exercisable for thirty (30) days from the
     date of such Termination Event or the remainder of their term, whichever is
     less;

               (3) To the extent not theretofore paid or provided, the Company
     shall timely pay or provide to Executive any other amounts or benefits
     required to be paid or provided or which Executive is eligible to receive
     under any plan, program, policy or practice, or contract or agreement of
     the Company and its affiliated companies for the period of time equal to
     the lesser of six months following Executive's Termination or the date
     Executive begins new employment. The Company, at its sole expense, shall
     continue to provide (through its own plan and/or individual policies)
     Executive (and Executive's dependents) with health benefits no less
     favorable than the group health plan benefits provided generally during
     such period to the senior executive officers of the Company or any
     affiliated company (to the extent any such coverage or benefits are taxable
     to Executive by reason of being provided under a self-insured health plan
     of the Company or an affiliate, the Company shall make Executive "whole"
     for the same on an after-tax basis), provided, however, such coverage shall
     be secondary to any group health plan coverage Executive (or his
     dependents) receive from another employer, (such other amounts and benefits
     shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Other Benefits");

               (4) All accrued compensation and unreimbursed expenses through
     the Termination Date. Such amounts shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum
     in cash within thirty (30) days after the Termination Date; and

               (5) Executive shall be free to accept other employment during
     such period, and there shall be no offset of any employment compensation
     earned by Executive in such other employment during such period against
     payments due Executive under this Paragraph (4), and there shall be no
     offset in any compensation received from such other employment against the
     Base Salary set forth above.

          (c) TERMINATION IN EVENT OF DEATH: BENEFITS. If Executive's employment
is terminated by reason of Executive's death during the Basic Term, this
Agreement shall terminate without further obligation to Executive's legal
representatives under this Agreement, other than for payment of all accrued
compensation, unreimbursed expenses, the timely payment or provision of Other
Benefits through the date of death. Such amounts shall be paid to Executive's
estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within ninety (90)
days after the date of death. In addition, Executive's legal representatives
shall receive, at the same time as if Executive were still an employee,
Executive's Base Salary for the lesser of one (1) year or the date this
Agreement would otherwise have terminated. With respect to the provision of
Other Benefits, the term Other Benefits as used in this Paragraph 4(c) shall
include, without limitation, and Executive's estate and/or beneficiaries shall
be entitled to receive, benefits at least equal to the most favorable benefits
provided by the Company to the estates and beneficiaries of other executive
level employees of the Company under such plans, programs, practices, and
policies relating to death benefits, if any, as in effect with respect to other
executives and their beneficiaries at any time during the 120-day period
immediately preceding the date of death. Additionally, all Stock Awards shall be
vested immediately

                                       6

<PAGE>

and shall be exercisable for the later of one year after the date of such
vesting or the remaining term of such option.

          (d) TERMINATION IN EVENT OF DISABILITY: BENEFITS. If Executive's
employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Disability during the Basic
Term, this Agreement shall terminate but the Company shall continue to pay the
Base Salary for a period of three (3) months and thereafter shall make such
additional payment for the Term so that the after tax effect of Executive's
compensation is the same as before the Disability. Executive shall, not be
entitled to any subsequent cash or stock bonuses. In addition, all outstanding
Stock Awards shall vest immediately upon such termination due to Disability and
shall be exercisable for one year after the date of such vesting. Executive's
Benefits shall continue to the end of the Basic Term.

          (e) VOLUNTARY TERMINATION BY EMPLOYEE AND TERMINATION FOR CAUSE:
BENEFITS. Executive may terminate his employment with the Company without Good
Reason by giving written notice of his intent and stating an effective
Termination Date at least ninety (90) days after the date of such notice;
provided, however, that the Company may accelerate such effective date by paying
Executive through the proposed Termination Date and also vesting awards that
would have vested but for this acceleration of the proposed Termination Date.
Upon such a termination by Executive or upon termination for Cause by the
Company, this Agreement shall terminate and the Company shall pay to Executive
all accrued compensation, unreimbursed expenses and the Other Benefits through
the Termination Date. Such amounts shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum in
cash within thirty (30) days after the date of termination. In addition, all
unvested stock options shall terminate and all vested options will terminate
fifteen (15) days after the Termination Date.

          (f) DIRECTOR POSITIONS. Executive agrees that upon termination of
employment, for any reason, at the request of the Chairman of the Board,
Executive will immediately tender his resignation from any and all Board
positions held with the Company and/or any of its subsidiaries and affiliates.

         5. NON-COMPETITION, NON-SOLICITATION, AND CONFIDENTIALITY. Executive
recognizes and agrees that the benefit of not being employed at-will, is
provided in consideration for, among other things, the agreements contained in
this Section, as well as the Stock Awards granted to Executive pursuant to this
Agreement. The Company agrees that while employed pursuant to this Agreement,
Executive will be provided with confidential information of Company; specialized
training on how to perform his duties; and contact with the Company's customers
and potential customers.

          (a) NON-COMPETITION DURING EMPLOYMENT. Executive agrees that during
the Basic Term, he will not compete with the Company by engaging in the
conception, design, development, production, marketing, or servicing of any
product or service that is substantially similar to the products or services
which the Company provides, and that he will not work for, in any capacity,
assist, or become affiliated with as an owner, partner, etc., either directly or
indirectly, any individual or business which offers or performs services, or
offers or provides products substantially similar to the services and products
provided by Company, provided, Executive shall not be prevented from owning no
more than 2% of any Company whose stock is publicly traded.

                                       7

<PAGE>

          (b) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST. Executive agrees that during the Basic
Term, he will not engage, either directly or indirectly, in any activity (a
"Conflict of Interest") which might adversely affect the Company or its
affiliates, including ownership of a material interest in any supplier,
contractor, distributor, subcontractor, customer or other entity with which the
Company does business or accepting any material payment, service, loan, gift,
trip, entertainment, or other favor from a supplier, contractor, distributor,
subcontractor, customer or other entity with which the Company does business,
and that Executive will promptly inform the President of the Company as to each
offer received by Executive to engage in any such activity. Executive further
agrees to disclose to the Company any other facts of which Executive becomes
aware which in Executive's good faith judgment could reasonably be expected to
involve or give rise to a Conflict of Interest or potential Conflict of
Interest.

          (c) NON-COMPETITION AFTER TERMINATION. Executive agrees that Executive
shall not, at any time during the period of two (2) years after the later of
termination of the Basic Term for any reason, within any of the markets in which
the Company has sold products or services or formulated a plan to sell products
or services into a market during the last twelve (12) months of Executive's
employ or which the Company enters into within three (3) months thereafter,
engage in or contribute Executive's knowledge to any work which is competitive
with or similar to a product, process, apparatus, service, or development on
which Executive worked or with respect to which Executive had access to
Confidential Information while employed by the Company. Following the expiration
of said two (2) year period, Executive shall continue to be obligated under the
Confidential Information Paragraph of this Agreement not to use or to disclose
Confidential Information of the Company so long as it shall not be publicly
available. It is understood that the geographical area set forth in this
covenant is divisible so that if this clause is invalid or unenforceable in an
included geographic area, that area is severable and the clause remains in
effect for the remaining included geographic areas in which the clause is valid.

          (d) CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Executive further agrees that he will
not, except as the Company may otherwise consent or direct in writing, reveal or
disclose, sell, use, lecture upon, publish or otherwise disclose to any third
party any Confidential Information or proprietary information of the Company, or
authorize anyone else to do these things at any time either during or subsequent
to his employment with the Company. This Section shall continue in full force
and effect after termination of Executive's employment and after the termination
of this Agreement. Executive's obligations under this Paragraph with respect to
any specific Confidential Information and proprietary information shall cease
when that specific portion of the Confidential Information and proprietary
information becomes publicly known, in its entirety and without combining
portions of such information obtained separately. It is understood that such
Confidential Information and proprietary information of the Company include
matters that Executive conceives or develops, as well as matters Executive
learns from other employees of Company. Confidential Information is defined to
include information: (1) disclosed to or known by the Executive as a consequence
of or through his employment with the Company; (2) not generally known outside
the Company; and (3) which relates to any aspect of the Company or its business,
finances, operation plans, budgets, research, or strategic development.
"Confidential Information" includes, but is not limited to the Company's trade
secrets, proprietary information, financial documents, long range plans,
customer lists, employer compensation, marketing strategy, data bases, costing
data, computer software

                                       8

<PAGE>

developed by the Company, investments made by the Company, and any information
provided to the Company by a third party under restrictions against disclosure
or use by the Company or others.

          (e) RETURN OF DOCUMENTS, EQUIPMENT, ETC. All writings, records, and
other documents and things comprising, containing, describing, discussing,
explaining, or evidencing any Confidential Information, and all equipment,
components, parts, tools, and the like in Executive's custody or possession that
have been obtained or prepared in the course of Executive's employment with the
Company shall be the exclusive property of the Company, shall not be copied
and/or removed from the premises of the Company, except in pursuit of the
business of the Company, and shall be delivered to the Company, without
Executive retaining any copies, upon notification of the termination of
Executive's employment or at any other time requested by the Company. The
Company shall have the right to retain, access, and inspect all property of
Executive of any kind in the office, work area, and on the premises of the
Company upon termination of Executive's employment and at any time during
employment by the Company to ensure compliance with the terms of this Agreement.

          (f) REAFFIRM OBLIGATIONS. Upon termination of his employment with the
Company, Executive, if requested by Company, shall reaffirm in writing
Executive's recognition of the importance of maintaining the confidentiality of
the Company's Confidential Information and proprietary information, and reaffirm
any other obligations set forth in this Agreement.

          (g) PRIOR DISCLOSURE. Executive represents and warrants that he has
not used or disclosed any Confidential Information he may have obtained from
Company prior to signing this Agreement, in any way inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement.

          (h) CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OF PRIOR COMPANIES. Executive will not
disclose or use during the period of his employment with the Company any
proprietary or Confidential Information or Copyright Works which Executive may
have acquired because of employment with an employer other than the Company or
acquired from any other third party, whether such information is in Executive's
memory or embodied in a writing or other physical form.

          (i) BREACH. Executive agrees that any breach of Paragraphs 5(a) or (c)
above cannot be remedied solely by money damages, and that in addition to any
other remedies Company may have, Company is entitled to obtain injunctive relief
against Executive. Nothing herein, however, shall be construed as limiting
Company's right to pursue any other available remedy at law or in equity,
including recovery of damages and termination of this Agreement and/or any
payments that may be due pursuant to this Agreement.

          (j) RIGHT TO ENTER AGREEMENT. Executive represents and covenants to
Company that he has full power and authority to enter into this Agreement and
that the execution of this Agreement will not breach or constitute a default of
any other agreement or contract to which he is a party or by which he is bound.

          (k) ENFORCEABILITY. The agreements contained in this Section 5 are
independent of the other agreements contained herein. Accordingly, failure of
the Company to comply with any

                                       9

<PAGE>

of its obligations outside of this Paragraph do not excuse Executive from
complying with the agreements contained herein.

               (l) SURVIVABILITY. The agreements contained in Paragraphs
 .A.5(c)-(d) shall survive the termination of this Agreement for any reason.

         6. ASSIGNMENT. This Agreement cannot be assigned by Executive. The
Company may assign this Agreement only to a successor (whether direct or
indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or
substantially all of the business and assets of the Company provided such
successor expressly agrees in writing reasonably satisfactory to Executive to
assume and perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that
the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession and assignment
had taken place. Failure of the Company to obtain such written agreement prior
to the effectiveness of any such succession shall be a material breach of this
Agreement.

         7. BINDING AGREEMENT. Executive understands that his obligations under
this Agreement are binding upon Executive's heirs, successors, personal
representatives, and legal representatives.

         8. NOTICES. All notices pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing
and sent certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed as set forth below,
or by delivering the same in person to such party, or by transmission by
facsimile to the number set forth below (which shall not constitute notice).
Notice deposited in the United States Mail, mailed in the manner described
hereinabove, shall be effective upon deposit. Notice given in any other manner
shall be effective only if and when received:

                  If to Executive:            Edward H. Ellis, Jr.
                                              182 Castlerock
                                              Houston, Texas  77090
                                              Fax:  (281) 397-6440

                  If to Company:              HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.
                                              13403 Northwest Freeway
                                              Houston, Texas  77040
                                              Attn:  General Counsel
                                              Fax:  (713) 744-9648

                  with a copy (which shall    Arthur S. Berner, Esq.
                  not constitute notice) to:  Haynes and Boone, LLP
                                              1000 Louisiana Street,
                                              Suite 4300
                                              Houston, Texas  77002-5012
                                              Fax:  (713) 236-5652


                                       10

<PAGE>

         9. WAIVER. No waiver by either party to this Agreement of any right to
enforce any term or condition of this Agreement, or of any breach hereof, shall
be deemed a waiver of such right in the future or of any other right or remedy
available under this Agreement.

         10. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to
be void, invalid, unenforceable, or against public policy, such provisions shall
be deemed severable from the Agreement, and the remaining provisions of the
Agreement will remain unaffected and in full force and effect.

         11.  ENTIRE AGREEMENT. The terms and provisions contained herein
shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to
Executive's employment with Company during the time period covered by this
Agreement. This Agreement replaces and supersedes any and all existing
Agreements entered into between Executive and the Company relating generally to
the same subject matter, if any, and shall be binding upon Executive's heirs,
executors, administrators, or other legal representatives or assigns.

         12. MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT. This Agreement may not be changed or
modified or released or discharged or abandoned or otherwise terminated, in
whole or in part, except by an instrument in writing signed by the Executive and
an officer or other authorized executive of Company.

         13.  UNDERSTAND AGREEMENT. Executive represents and warrants that
he has read and understood each and every provision of this Agreement, and
Executive understands that he has the right to obtain advice from legal counsel
of choice, if necessary and desired, in order to interpret any and all
provisions of this Agreement, and that Executive has freely and voluntarily
entered into this Agreement.

         14. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Texas.

         15. JURISDICTION AND VENUE. With respect to any litigation regarding
this Agreement, Executive agrees to venue in the state or federal courts in
Harris County, Texas, and agrees to waive and does hereby waive any defenses
and/or arguments based upon improper venue and/or lack of personal jurisdiction.
By entering into this Agreement, Executive agrees to personal jurisdiction in
the state and federal courts in Harris County, Texas.

                [REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK]


                                       11

<PAGE>



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement in
multiple copies, effective as of the date first written above.

EXECUTIVE                                         COMPANY

                                                  HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.


/s/ EDWARD H. ELLIS, JR.                          By: /s/ JOHN N. MOLBECK, JR.
- -----------------------------                        ---------------------------
Edward H. Ellis, Jr.                                  John N. Molbeck,
                                                      President

Dated:     2/02/02                                Dated:  1/21/02
      -----------------------                           ------------------------





                    [SIGNATURE PAGE TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT]


                                       12

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.19
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>h95385ex10-19.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - CHRISTOPHER L MARTIN
<TEXT>
<PAGE>


                              EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

         This Employment Agreement ("Agreement") is entered into as of the 1st
day of October, 2000 (the "Effective Date"), between HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS,
INC. (the "Company" or "HCC"), and CHRISTOPHER L. MARTIN ("Executive"),
sometimes collectively referred to herein as the "Parties."

                                    RECITALS:

         WHEREAS, Executive is to be employed by the Company, and, as an
integral part of its management, to participate in the decision-making process
relative to short and long-term planning and policy for the Company;

         WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Company to directly engage Executive
as an officer of the Company, and

         WHEREAS, Executive is desirous of committing himself to serve the
Company on the terms herein provided.

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the respective
covenants and agreements set forth below, the Parties agree as follows:

         1. TERM. The Company hereby agrees to employ Executive as Vice
President and General Counsel, and Executive hereby agrees to accept such
employment, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, for the period
commencing on the Effective Date and expiring as of 11:59 p.m. on December 31,
2003 (the "Basic Term") (unless sooner terminated as hereinafter set forth).
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Executive agrees that he shall perform
his duties at the corporate home office of the Company, wherever that may be
located as determined from time to time by the Company.

         2. DUTIES.

               (a) DUTIES AS EMPLOYEE OF THE COMPANY. Executive shall, subject
          to the supervision of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and
          the Executive Management Committee of HCC ("Executive Committee"),
          have such powers with respect to such management and control as may be
          reasonably incident to the responsibilities incident to Executive's
          title. During normal business hours, Executive shall devote his full
          time and attention to diligently attending to the business of the
          Company. Executive shall not directly or indirectly render any
          services of a business, commercial, or professional nature to any
          other person, firm, corporation, or organization, whether for
          compensation or otherwise, without the prior written consent of the
          Chairman of the Board of HCC. However, Executive shall have the right
          to engage in such activities as may be appropriate in order to manage
          his personal investments so long as such activities do not materially
          interfere or conflict with the performance of his duties to the
          Company hereunder. The conduct of such activity shall not be deemed to

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 1
<PAGE>

          materially interfere or conflict with Executive's performance of his
          duties until Executive has been notified in writing thereof and given
          a reasonable period in which to cure the same.

               (b) OTHER DUTIES. If elected, Executive agrees to serve on any
          Committee of HCC and in one or more executive offices of any of HCC's
          direct or indirect subsidiaries (the "Subsidiaries"), provided
          Executive is indemnified for serving in any and all such capacities in
          a manner acceptable to the Company and Executive. If elected,
          Executive agrees that he shall not be entitled to receive any
          compensation for serving in any capacity for the Subsidiaries other
          than the compensation to be paid to Executive by the Company pursuant
          to this Agreement.

         3. COMPENSATION AND RELATED MATTERS.

               (a) BASE SALARY. Executive shall receive a base salary paid by
          the Company at the annual rate of $170,000, during the period
          beginning on the Effective Date payable not less frequently than in
          substantially equal monthly installments. Such base salary shall be
          increased to the annual rate of $195,000 for the year 2002 and
          $220,000 for the year 2003.

               (b) BONUS PAYMENTS. Except as set forth herein, Executive shall
          have no claim of right to any bonus: all such bonuses being in the
          sole and absolute discretion of HCC.

               (c) STOCK OPTIONS. Except as set forth herein, Executive shall
          have no claim of right to any options to purchase stock of the
          Company: all options to purchase stock of HCC being granted in the
          sole and absolute discretion of HCC and subject to the Executive's
          execution of option agreements in a form acceptable to the Executive
          Committee.

               (d) EXPENSES. During the Basic Term, Executive shall be entitled
          to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred
          by him in accordance with the policies and procedures established by
          the Executive Committee for the Company's senior executive officers in
          performing services hereunder, provided that Executive properly
          accounts therefor in accordance with the policies of the Company.

               (e) OTHER BENEFITS. Executive shall be entitled to participate in
          or receive benefits under any compensatory employee benefit plan or
          other arrangement made generally available by the Company now or in
          the future to its employees, subject to and on a basis consistent with
          the terms, conditions, and overall administration of such plan or
          arrangement. Nothing paid to Executive under any plan or arrangement
          presently in effect or made available in the future shall be deemed to
          be in lieu of the Base Salary payable to Executive pursuant to
          Paragraph (a) of this Section. The Company shall not make any changes
          in any employee benefit plans or other arrangements in effect on the
          date hereof or subsequently in effect in which Executive currently or
          in the future participates (including, without limitation, each
          pension and retirement plan, supplemental pension and retirement plan,
          savings and profit sharing plan, stock or unit ownership plan, stock
          or unit purchase plan, stock or unit


EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 2
<PAGE>

          option plan, life insurance plan, medical insurance plan, disability
          plan, dental plan, health and accident plan, or any other similar plan
          or arrangement) that would adversely affect Executive's rights or
          benefits thereunder, unless such change occurs pursuant to a program
          applicable to substantially all employees of HCC.

               (f) VACATIONS. Executive shall be entitled to fifteen (15) days
          paid vacation per year during the Basic Term. There shall be no
          carryover of unused vacation from year to year. For purposes of this
          Paragraph, weekends shall not count as vacation days, and Executive
          shall also be entitled to all paid holidays and personal days given by
          the Company to its senior executive officers.

               (g) PERQUISITES. Executive shall be entitled to receive the
          perquisites and fringe benefits appertaining to an executive officer
          of the Company in accordance with any practice established by the HCC
          Executive Committee.

               (h) PRORATION. Any payments or benefits payable to Executive
          hereunder in respect of any calendar year during which Executive is
          employed by the Company for less than the entire year, unless
          otherwise provided in the applicable plan or arrangement, shall be
          prorated in accordance with the number of days in such calendar year
          during which he is so employed.

         4. TERMINATION.

               (a) DEFINITIONS.

                    (1) "CAUSE" shall mean:

                         (i) Material dishonesty which is not the result of an
                    inadvertent or innocent mistake of Executive with respect to
                    the Company or any of its affiliates or Subsidiaries;

                         (ii) Willful misfeasance or nonfeasance of duty by
                    Executive intended to injure or having the effect of
                    injuring in some material fashion the reputation, business,
                    or business relationships of the Company or any of its
                    affiliates or Subsidiaries or any of their respective
                    officers, directors, or employees;

                         (iii) Material violation by Executive of any material
                    term of this Agreement; or

                         (iv) Conviction of Executive of any felony, any crime
                    involving moral turpitude or any crime other than a
                    vehicular offense which could reflect in some material
                    fashion unfavorably upon the Company or any of its
                    affiliates or Subsidiaries.

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 3

<PAGE>

               Executive may not be terminated for Cause unless and until there
               has been delivered to Executive written notice from HCC's
               Executive Committee, supplying the particulars of Executive's
               acts or omissions that the Executive Committee, believes
               constitute Cause, a reasonable period of time (not less than 30
               days) has been given to Executive after such notice to either
               cure the same or to meet with the Executive Committee, on behalf
               of the Board, with his attorney if so desired by Executive, and
               following, which the Executive Committee, on behalf of the Board,
               by action of not less than two-thirds of its members furnishes to
               Executive a written resolution specifying in detail its findings
               that Executive has been terminated for Cause as of the date set
               forth in the notice to Executive.

                    (2) A "DISABILITY" shall mean the absence of Executive from
               Executive's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180
               consecutive days, or 180 days in a 365-day period, as a result of
               incapacity due to mental or physical illness which results in the
               Executive being unable to perform the essential functions of his
               position, with or without reasonable accommodation.

                    (3) A "GOOD REASON" shall mean any of the following (without
               Executive's express written consent):

                         (i) A failure by HCC to continue in effect any employee
                    benefit plan in which Executive was participating, or the
                    taking of any action by HCC that would adversely affect
                    Executive's participation in, or materially reduce
                    Executive's benefits under, any such employee benefit plan,
                    unless such failure or such taking of any action adversely
                    affects the employees of HCC generally to the same extent;

                         (ii) Any material breach by the Company of any
                    provision of this Agreement.

                         (iii) Following a Change of Control, but only if within
                    180 days after such Change of Control, there is a material
                    alteration in the nature and status of Executive's title,
                    duties or responsibilities, or the assignment of duties or
                    responsibilities inconsistent with Executive's status,
                    title, duties and responsibilities;

                         (iv) A relocation of the Company's principal executive
                    offices, or of Executive's relocation to any place other
                    than the principal executive offices, exceeding a distance
                    of fifty (50) miles from the Company's current executive
                    office located in Houston, Texas, except for reasonably
                    required travel by Executive on the Company's business; and

                         (v) Any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption
                    and performance of this Agreement by any successor (by
                    merger, consolidation, or otherwise) or assign of the
                    Company.

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 4

<PAGE>

                  However, Good Reason shall exist with respect to an above
                  specified matter only if such matter is not corrected by HCC
                  within thirty (30) days of its receipt of written notice of
                  such matter from Executive, and in no event shall a
                  termination by Executive occurring more than one hundred
                  eighty (180) days following the date of the event described
                  above or in the case of a Change of Control, 180 days
                  following the Change of Control be a termination for Good
                  Reason due to such event.

                    (4) "TERMINATION DATE" shall mean the date Executive is
               terminated for any reason pursuant to this Agreement.

                    (5) A "CHANGE OF CONTROL" shall be deemed to have occurred
               if:

                         (i) Any "person" or "group" (within the meaning of
                    Sections 13(d) and 24(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act
                    of 1934) other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding
                    securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company
                    becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule l3d-3
                    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or
                    indirectly, of 50% or more of the Company's then outstanding
                    voting common stock; or

                         (ii) At any time during the period of three (3)
                    consecutive years (not including any period prior to the
                    date hereof), individuals who at the beginning of such
                    period constituted the Board (and any new director whose
                    election by the Board or whose nomination for election by
                    the Company's shareholders were approved by a vote of at
                    least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who
                    either were directors at the beginning of such period or
                    whose election or nomination for election was previously so
                    approved) cease for any reason to constitute a majority
                    thereof; or

                         (iii) The shareholders of the Company approve a merger
                    or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation,
                    other than a merger or consolidation (a) in which a majority
                    of the directors of the surviving entity were directors of
                    the Company prior to such consolidation or merger, and (b)
                    which would result in the voting securities of the Company
                    outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to
                    represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being
                    changed into voting securities of the surviving entity) more
                    than 50% of the combined voting power of the voting
                    securities of the surviving entity outstanding immediately
                    after such merger or consolidation; or

                         (iv) The shareholders approve a plan of complete
                    liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or
                    disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of
                    the Company's assets.

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 5

<PAGE>

          (b) TERMINATION WITHOUT CAUSE OR TERMINATION FOR GOOD REASON:
     BENEFITS. In the event there is a termination by the Company without Cause,
     or if Executive terminates for Good Reason (a "Termination Event"), this
     Agreement shall terminate, and Executive shall be entitled to the following
     severance benefits:

               (1) For the a period after the Termination Date and for the
          remainder of the Basic Term, Base Salary (as defined in Paragraph
          3(a)), at the rate, and payable quarterly as Executive was being paid
          on the Termination Date.

               (2) If, after a Change of Control, as defined herein, within 180
          days of such Change of Control, there is a termination by the Company
          without Cause or by Executive for Good Reason, any stock options and
          other stock-related grants ("Stock Awards") which Executive has
          received under any of the HCC stock plans shall vest immediately and
          shall be exercisable for thirty (30) days from the date of such
          Termination Event or the remainder of their term, whichever is less.

               (3) All accrued compensation and unreimbursed expenses through
          the Termination Date. Such amounts shall be paid to Executive in a
          lump sum in cash within thirty (30) business days after the
          Termination Date; and

               (4) Executive shall be free to accept other employment during
          such period, and there shall be no offset of any compensation earned
          by Executive from such other employment during such period against
          payments due Executive under this Section 4.

          (c) TERMINATION IN EVENT OF DEATH: BENEFITS. If Executive's employment
     is terminated by reason of Executive's death during the Basic Term, this
     Agreement shall terminate, without further obligation to Executive's legal
     representatives under this Agreement, other than for payment of all accrued
     compensation, unreimbursed expenses, and the timely payment or provision of
     Other Benefits through the date of death. Such amounts shall be paid to
     Executive's estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash
     within ninety (90) business days after the date of death. Additionally,
     Executive's estate or beneficiary shall be vested in such Stock Awards as
     Executive held of the date of Executive's death.

          (d) TERMINATION IN EVENT OF DISABILITY: BENEFITS. If Executive's
     employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Disability during the
     Basic Term, this Agreement shall continue in full force for a period of
     sixty (60) days following such Disability.

          (e) VOLUNTARY TERMINATION BY EMPLOYEE AND TERMINATION FOR CAUSE:
     BENEFITS. Executive may terminate his employment with the Company without
     Good Reason by giving written notice of his intent and stating an effective
     Termination Date at least ninety (90) days after the date of such notice;
     provided, however, that the Company may accelerate such effective date by
     paying Executive through the proposed Termination Date and also vesting
     awards that would have vested but for the acceleration of the proposed
     Termination Date. Upon such a termination by Executive or upon

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 6

<PAGE>

     termination for Cause by the Company, this Agreement shall terminate and
     the Company shall pay to Executive all accrued compensation and
     unreimbursed expenses through the Termination Date. Such amounts shall be
     paid to Executive in a lump sum in cash within sixty (60) business days
     after the date of termination. In addition, all unvested options shall
     terminate and all vested options shall terminate thirty (30) days after the
     Termination Date.

          (f) DIRECTOR POSITIONS. Executive agrees that upon termination of
     employment, for any reason, at the request of the Executive Committee of
     the Company, he will immediately tender his resignation from any and all
     Board of Director positions held with the Company and/or any of its
     Subsidiaries and affiliates.

         5. NON-COMPETITION, NON-SOLICITATION, AND CONFIDENTIALITY. Executive
recognizes and agrees that the benefit of not being employed at-will, is
provided in consideration for, among other things, the agreements contained in
this Section. The Company agrees that while employed pursuant to this Agreement,
Executive will be provided with confidential information of Company, specialized
training on how to perform his duties and contact with the Company's customers
and potential customers.

         In consideration of all of the foregoing, Executive agrees as follows:

          (a) NON-COMPETITION DURING EMPLOYMENT. Executive agrees that while
     employed by the Company, he will not compete with the Company or its
     affiliates by engaging in the conception, design, development, production,
     marketing, or servicing of any product or service that is substantially
     similar to the products or services which the Company or its affiliates
     provide, and that he will not work for, in any capacity, assist, or become
     affiliated with as an owner, partner, etc., either directly or indirectly,
     any individual or business which offers or performs services, or offers or
     provides products substantially similar to the services and products
     provided by Company or its affiliates.

          (b) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST. Executive agrees that while employed by the
     Company, he will not engage, either directly or indirectly, in any activity
     (a "Conflict of Interest") which might adversely affect the Company or its
     affiliates and Subsidiaries, including ownership of a material interest in
     any supplier, contractor, distributor, subcontractor, customer or other
     entity with which the Company or its affiliates and Subsidiaries does
     business or accepting any material payment, service, loan, gift, trip,
     entertainment, or other favor from a supplier, contractor, distributor,
     subcontractor, customer or other entity with which the Company or its
     affiliates or Subsidiaries does business, and that Executive will promptly
     inform the President of the Company as to each offer received by Executive
     to engage in any such activity. Executive further agrees to disclose to the
     Company any other facts of which Executive becomes aware which might in
     Executive's good faith judgment reasonably be expected to involve or give
     rise to a Conflict of Interest or potential Conflict of Interest.

          (c) NON-COMPETITION AFTER TERMINATION. Executive agrees that, at any
     time during the period of two (2) years after the termination of his
     employment with the

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 7

<PAGE>

     Company and any of its affiliates and Subsidiaries, he shall not for any
     reason, within any of the markets in which the Company or its affiliates
     has sold products or services or formulated a plan to sell products or
     services into a market during the last twelve (12) months of Executive's
     employment or which the Company or its affiliates enters into within three
     (3) months thereafter, engage in or contribute Executive's knowledge to any
     work which is competitive with or similar to a product, process, apparatus,
     service, or development on which Executive worked or with respect to which
     Executive had access to Confidential Information while employed by the
     Company. Following the expiration of said two (2) year period, Executive
     shall continue to be obligated under the Confidential Information paragraph
     of this Agreement not to use or to disclose Confidential Information of the
     Company or its affiliates and Subsidiaries so long as it shall not be
     publicly available. It is understood that the geographical area set forth
     in this covenant is divisible so that if this clause is invalid or
     unenforceable in an included geographic area, that area is severable and
     the clause remains in effect for the remaining included geographic areas in
     which the clause is valid.

          (d) NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS. Executive further agrees that for a
     period of two (2) years after the termination of his employment with the
     Company and any of its affiliates and Subsidiaries, he will not solicit or
     accept any business from any customer or client or prospective customer or
     client with whom Executive dealt or solicited while employed by Company
     during the last twelve (12) months of his employment.

          (e) NON-SOLICITATION OF EMPLOYEES. Executive agrees that for a period
     of two (2) years after the termination of his employment with the Company
     and any of its affiliates and Subsidiaries, he will not either directly or
     indirectly, on his own behalf or on behalf of others, solicit, attempt to
     hire, or hire any person employed by Company to work for Executive or for
     another entity, firm, corporation, or individual.

          (f) CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Executive further agrees that he will
     not, except as the Company may otherwise consent or direct in writing,
     reveal or disclose, sell, use, lecture upon, publish or otherwise disclose
     to any third party any Confidential Information or proprietary information
     of the Company or its affiliates and Subsidiaries, or authorize anyone else
     to do these things at any time either during or subsequent to his
     employment with the Company. This Paragraph shall continue in full force
     and effect after termination of Executive's employment and after the
     termination of this Agreement. Executive's obligations under this Paragraph
     with respect to any specific Confidential Information and proprietary
     information shall cease when that specific portion of the Confidential
     Information and proprietary information becomes publicly known, in its
     entirety and without combining portions of such information obtained
     separately. It is understood that such Confidential Information and
     proprietary information of the Company and its affiliates and Subsidiaries
     include matters that Executive conceives or develops, as well as matters
     Executive learns from other employees of Company or its affiliates and
     Subsidiaries. Confidential Information is defined to include information:
     (1) disclosed to or known by the Executive as a consequence of or through
     his employment with the Company; (2) not generally known outside the
     Company and its affiliates and Subsidiaries; and (3) which relates to any
     aspect of the Company and its


EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 8

<PAGE>

     affiliates or their business, finances, operation plans, budgets, research,
     or strategic development. "Confidential Information" includes, but is not
     limited to the Company's and its affiliates' and Subsidiaries' trade
     secrets, proprietary information, financial documents, long range plans,
     customer lists, employer compensation, marketing strategy, data bases,
     costing data, computer software developed by the Company or its affiliates,
     investments made by the Company or its affiliates, and any information
     provided to the Company or its affiliates by a third party under
     restrictions against disclosure or use by the Company or others.

          (g) RETURN OF DOCUMENTS, EQUIPMENT, ETC. All writings, records, and
     other documents and things comprising, containing, describing, discussing,
     explaining, or evidencing any Confidential Information, and all equipment,
     components, parts, tools, and the like in Executive's custody or possession
     that have been obtained or prepared in the course of Executive's employment
     with the Company shall be the exclusive property of the Company, shall not
     be copied and/or removed from the premises of the Company, except in
     pursuit of the business of the Company, and shall be delivered to the
     Company, without Executive retaining any copies, upon notification of the
     termination of Executive's employment or at any other time requested by the
     Company. The Company shall have the right to retain, access, and inspect
     all property of Executive of any kind in the office, work area, and on the
     premises of the Company upon termination of Executive's employment and at
     any time during employment by the Company to ensure compliance with the
     terms of this Agreement.

          (h) REAFFIRM OBLIGATIONS. Upon termination of his employment with the
     Company, Executive, if requested by Company, shall reaffirm in writing
     Executive's recognition of the importance of maintaining the
     confidentiality of the Company's Confidential Information and proprietary
     information, and reaffirm any other obligations set forth in this
     Agreement.

          (i) PRIOR DISCLOSURE. Executive represents and warrants that he has
     not used or disclosed any Confidential Information he may have obtained
     from Company or its affiliates prior to signing this Agreement, in any way
     inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.

          (j) CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OF PRIOR COMPANIES. Executive will not
     disclose or use during the period of his employment with the Company any
     proprietary or Confidential Information or Copyright Works which Executive
     may have acquired because of employment with an employer other than the
     Company or acquired from any other third party, whether such information is
     in Executive's memory or embodied in a writing or other physical form.

          (k) BREACH. Executive agrees that any breach of Paragraphs 5(a), (c),
     (d), (e) or above cannot be remedied solely by money damages, and that in
     addition to any other remedies Company or its affiliates may have, the
     Company shall be entitled to obtain injunctive relief against Executive.
     Nothing herein, however, shall be construed as limiting the Company's right
     to pursue any other available remedy at law or in equity,


EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 9

<PAGE>

     including recovery of damages and termination of this Agreement and/or any
     payments that may be due pursuant to this Agreement.

          (l) RIGHT TO ENTER AGREEMENT. Executive represents and covenants to
     the Company that he has full power and authority to enter into this
     Agreement and that the execution of this Agreement will not breach or
     constitute a default of any other agreement or contract to which he is a
     party or by which he is bound.

          (m) EXTENSION OF POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS. In the event Executive
     breaches Paragraphs 5(b), (d), or (e) above, the restrictive time periods
     contained in those provisions will be extended by the period of time
     Executive was in violation of such provisions.

          (n) ENFORCEABILITY. The agreements contained in Section 5 are
     independent of the other agreements contained herein. Accordingly, failure
     of the Company to comply with any of its obligations outside of this
     Paragraph do not excuse Executive from complying with the agreements
     contained herein.

          (o) SURVIVABILITY. The agreements contained in Paragraphs 5(c) through
     (g) shall survive the termination of this Agreement for any reason.

         6. ASSIGNMENT. This Agreement cannot be assigned by Executive. The
Company may assign this Agreement only to a successor (whether direct or
indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or
substantially all of the business and assets of the Company provided such
successor expressly agrees in writing reasonably satisfactory to Executive to
assume and perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that
the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession and assignment
had taken place. Failure of the Company to obtain such written agreement prior
to the effectiveness of any such succession shall be a material breach of this
Agreement.

         7. BINDING AGREEMENT. Executive understands that his obligations under
this Agreement are binding upon Executive's heirs, successors, personal
representatives, and legal representatives.

         8. NOTICES. All notices pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing
and sent certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed as set forth below,
or by delivering the same in person to such party, or by transmission by
facsimile to the number set forth below. Notice deposited in the United States
Mail, mailed in the manner described hereinabove, shall be effective upon
deposit. Notice given in any other manner shall be effective only if and when
received:

                  If to Executive:                  Christopher C. Martin, Esq.

                                                    ----------------------------

                                                    ----------------------------

                                                    ----------------------------


EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 10
<PAGE>

                  If to Company:                    HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.
                                                    13403 Northwest Freeway
                                                    Houston, Texas  77040
                                                    Attn:  President

                  with a copy (which shall          Arthur S. Berner, Esq.
                  not constitute notice) to:        Haynes and Boone, LLP
                                                    1000 Louisiana, suite 4300
                                                    Houston, Texas  77002
                                                    Fax: (713) 236-5652

         9. WAIVER. No waiver by either party to this Agreement of any right to
enforce any term or condition of this Agreement, or of any breach hereof, shall
be deemed a waiver of such right in the future or of any other right or remedy
available under this Agreement.

         10. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to
be void, invalid, unenforceable, or against public policy, such provisions shall
be deemed severable from the Agreement, and the remaining provisions of the
Agreement will remain unaffected and in full force and effect.

         11. ARBITRATION. In the event any dispute arises out of Executive's
employment with or by the Company, or separation/termination therefrom, whether
as an employee or as a consultant, which cannot be resolved by the Parties to
this Agreement, such dispute shall be submitted to final and binding
arbitration. The arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the National
Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes of the American Arbitration
Association ("AAA"). If the Parties cannot agree on an arbitrator, a list of
seven (7) arbitrators will be requested from AAA, and the arbitrator will be
selected using alternate strikes with Executive striking first. The cost of the
arbitration will be shared equally by Executive and Company. Arbitration of such
disputes is mandatory and in lieu of any and all civil causes of action and
lawsuits either party may have against the other arising out of Executive's
employment with Company, or separation therefrom. Such arbitration shall be held
in Houston, Texas.

         12. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. The terms and provisions contained herein shall
constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to Executive's
employment with Company during the time period covered by this Agreement. this
Agreement replaces and supersedes any and all existing, Agreements entered into
between Executive and the Company relating generally to the same subject matter,
if any, and shall be binding upon Executive's heirs, executors, administrators,
or other legal representatives or assigns.

         13. MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT. this Agreement may not be changed or
modified or released or discharged or abandoned or otherwise terminated, in
whole or in part, except by an instrument in writing signed by the Executive and
an officer or other authorized executive of Company.

         14. UNDERSTAND AGREEMENT. Executive represents and warrants that he has
read and understood each and every provision of this Agreement, and Executive
understands that he has


EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 11
<PAGE>

the right to obtain advice from legal counsel of choice, if necessary and
desired, in order to interpret any and all provisions of this Agreement, and
that Executive has freely and voluntarily entered into this Agreement.

         15. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Texas (irrespective of its choice of
law principles).

         16. JURISDICTION AND VENUE. With respect to any litigation regarding
this Agreement, Executive agrees to venue in the state or federal courts in
Harris County, Texas, and agrees to waive and does hereby waive any defenses
and/or arguments based upon improper venue and/or lack of personal jurisdiction.
By entering into this Agreement, Executive agrees to personal jurisdiction in
the state and federal courts in Harris County, Texas.

                            [SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]



EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 12

<PAGE>



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement in
multiple copies, effective as of the date first written above.

EXECUTIVE                                   COMPANY

                                            HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.
Name:    /s/CHRISTOPHER L. MARTIN
       ----------------------------
         Christopher L. Martin              By:      /s/ STEPHEN L. WAY
                                                --------------------------------
                                                         Stephen L. Way
                                                         Chairman

Dated:   10/03/00                           Dated:       10/03/00
      ------------------------------              ------------------------------



EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 13

<PAGE>





                               AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO

                              EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

         This AMENDMENT NO. 1 (the "Amendment") is entered into as of the 1st
day of January, 2002 (the "Effective Date") between HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.
(the "Company" or "HCC") and Christopher L. Martin ("Executive"), sometimes
collectively referred to herein as (the "Parties")

                                    RECITALS:

         WHEREAS, Executive has entered into an Employment Agreement dated as of
the 1st day of October, 2000; and

         WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Company and the Executive to amend the
Employment Agreement as set forth below;

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the respective
covenants and agreements set forth below, the Parties agree as follows:

         1. In addition to any perquisites to which Executive is otherwise
entitled pursuant to the Employment Agreement, effective as of the Effective
Date, as set forth in the Amendment, Executive shall be entitled to a car
allowance in the amount of $750 per month. In addition, Executive shall receive
a corporate membership at The Houstonian. Dues for such membership shall be paid
by the Company.

         2. The definition of "Change of Control" set forth in Paragraph 4(a)(5)
shall be amended by deleting in its entirety subparagraph (ii).

         3. The provisions of Paragraphs (4)(c) and 4(d) shall be deleted in
their entirety and replaced with the following:

              (c)  TERMINATION IN EVENT OF DEATH: BENEFITS. If Executive's
employment is terminated by reason of Executive's death during the Basic Term,
this Agreement shall terminate without further obligation to Executive's legal
representatives under this Agreement, other than for payment of all accrued
compensation, unreimbursed expenses, the timely payment or provision of Other
Benefits through the date of death. Such amounts shall be paid to Executive's
estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within ninety (90)
days after the date of death. In addition, Executive's legal representatives
shall receive, at the same time as if Executive were still an employee,
Executive's Base Salary for the lesser of one (1) year or the date this
Agreement would otherwise have terminated. With respect to the provision of
Other Benefits, the term Other Benefits as used in this Paragraph 4(c) shall
include, without limitation, and Executive's estate and/or beneficiaries shall
be entitled to receive, benefits at least equal to the most favorable benefits
provided by the Company to the estates and beneficiaries of other


EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 14

<PAGE>

executive level employees of the Company under such plans, programs, practices,
and policies relating to death benefits, if any, as in effect with respect to
other executives and their beneficiaries at any time during the 120-day period
immediately preceding the date of death. Additionally, all Stock Awards shall be
vested immediately and shall be exercisable for the later of one year after the
date of such vesting or the remaining term of such option.

              (d)  TERMINATION IN EVENT OF DISABILITY: BENEFITS. If
Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Disability during
the Basic Term, this Agreement shall terminate but the Company shall continue to
pay the Base Salary for a period of three (3) months and thereafter shall make
such additional payment for the Term so that the after tax effect of Executive's
compensation is the same as before the Disability. Executive shall, not be
entitled to any subsequent cash or stock bonuses. In addition, all outstanding
Stock Awards shall vest immediately upon such termination due to Disability and
shall be exercisable for one year after the date of such vesting. Executive's
Benefits shall continue to the end of the Basic Term.

         Except as set forth herein, the terms of the Employment Agreement,
shall remain in full force and effect.

                [REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK]

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 15

<PAGE>



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement in
multiple copies, effective as of the Effective Date.

EXECUTIVE                                   COMPANY

                                            HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.


/s/ CHRISTOPHER L. MARTIN                    By: /s/ JOHN N. MOLBECK
- --------------------------------                --------------------------------
Christopher L. Martin                               John N. Molbeck,
                                                    President

Dated:  January 21, 2002                    Dated:  January 21, 2002
      ------------------------------              ------------------------------












                    [SIGNATURE PAGE TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT]


EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - PAGE 16

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>h95385ex12.txt
<DESCRIPTION>STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                  HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                               STATEMENT OF RATIOS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
====================================================================================================================================

                                                                         FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                              (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
                                                                       ADJUSTED
                                         2001             2000          1999 (2)          1999             1998            1997
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>               <C>             <C>
Gross premium to surplus ratio:
   Gross written premium           $    1,014,833  $      972,154                  $      576,184   $      500,962  $      346,094
   Policyholders' surplus                 401,393         326,249                         315,474          369,401         331,922
   Premium to surplus ratio (1)             252.8%          298.0%                          182.6%           135.6%          104.3%

(Gross premium to surplus ratio = gross written premium divided by policyholders' surplus)

Net premium to surplus ratio:
    Net written premium            $      371,409  $      283,947                  $      150,261   $      123,315  $      143,068
    Policyholders' surplus                401,393         326,249                         315,474          369,401         331,922
    Premium to surplus ratio (1)             92.5%           87.0%                           47.6%            33.4%           43.1%

(Net premium to surplus ratio = net written premium divided by policyholders' surplus)

Loss ratio:
   Incurred loss and loss
     adjustment expense            $      266,537  $      190,272  $      119,093  $      160,908   $       95,435  $      100,158
   Net earned premium                     341,779         267,481         146,850         150,304          142,108         162,626
   Loss ratio (1)                            78.0%           71.1%           81.1%          107.1%            67.2%           61.6%

(Loss ratio = incurred loss and loss adjustment expense divided by net earned premium)

Expense ratio:
   Underwriting expense            $       88,461  $       76,548  $       33,427  $       34,220   $       19,417  $       24,627
   Net written premium                    371,409         283,947         145,200         150,261          123,315         143,068
   Expense ratio (1)                         23.8%           27.0%           23.0%           22.8%            15.7%           17.2%

(Expense ratio = underwriting expense divided by net written premium)

   Combined ratio (1)                       101.8%           98.1%          104.1%          129.9%            82.9%           78.8%

(Combined ratio = loss ratio plus expense ratio)
</TABLE>

(1) Calculated for our insurance companies on the basis of statutory
    accounting principles.

(2) Excluding the effects of the provision for reinsurance in 1999.



<PAGE>

                  HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                               STATEMENT OF RATIOS
                                   (continued)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
====================================================================================================================================

                                                                         FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                              (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
                                                                        ADJUSTED
                                          2001             2000          1999 (2)          1999             1998            1997
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>              <C>             <C>
Loss ratio:
   Incurred loss and loss
      adjustment expense           $      267,390  $      198,470  $      109,650  $      109,650   $       91,302  $       96,514
   Net earned premium                     342,787         267,647         141,362         141,362          143,100         162,571
   Loss ratio (3)                            78.0%           74.2%           77.6%           77.6%            63.8%           59.4%

(Loss ratio = incurred loss and loss adjustment expense divided by net earned premium)

Expense ratio:
   Underwriting expense            $       88,192  $       56,223  $       29,661  $       73,123   $       30,700  $       35,770
   Net earned premium                     342,787         267,647         141,362         141,362          143,100         162,571
   Expense ratio (3)                         25.7%           21.0%           21.0%           51.7%            21.5%           22.0%

(Expense ratio = underwriting expense divided by net earned premium)

   Combined ratio (3)                       103.7%           95.2%           98.6%          129.3%            85.3%           81.4%

(Combined ratio = loss ratio plus expense ratio)
</TABLE>

(2) Excluding the effects of the provision for reinsurance in 1999.

(3) Calculated for our insurance companies on the basis of generally accepted
    accounting principles.





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>h95385ex21.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.
                                  SUBSIDIARIES

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                   STATE OR COUNTRY
         NAME                                                                                      OF INCORPORATION
         ----                                                                                      ----------------

<S>     <C>                                                                                        <C>
1.       ASU International, Inc.                                                                   Massachusetts
2.       ASU International, LLC                                                                    Massachusetts
3.       Avemco Corporation                                                                        Delaware
4.       Avemco Insurance Company                                                                  Maryland
5.       Avemco Services, Inc.                                                                     Maryland
6.       Aviation & Marine Premium Acceptance Corporation                                          Texas
7.       Centris Insurance Company                                                                 Indiana
8.       Centris Underwriting Agencies, Inc.                                                       Indiana
9.       Eagles Aerobatic Flight Team, Inc.                                                        Wisconsin
10.      Eastern Aviation & Marine Underwriters, Inc.                                              Maryland
11.      HCC Acquisitions (U.K.) Limited                                                           United Kingdom
12.      HCC Acquisition Sub, Inc.                                                                 New York
13.      HCC Administrators, Inc.                                                                  Illinois
14.      HCC - ASU Acquisition Sub, Inc.                                                           Massachusetts
15.      HCC Aviation Insurance Group, Inc.                                                        Texas
16.      HCC Aviation, Ltd.                                                                        Texas
17.      HCC Benefits Corporation                                                                  Delaware
18.      HCC Employee Benefits, Inc.                                                               Delaware
19.      HCC Employer Services, Inc.                                                               Alabama
20.      HCC Employer Services, Inc.                                                               Illinois
21.      HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.                                                              Texas
22.      HCC Intermediaries, Inc.                                                                  Texas
23.      HCC Intermediate Holdings, Inc.                                                           Delaware
24.      HCC Life Insurance Company                                                                Indiana
25.      HCC Reinsurance Company Limited                                                           Bermuda
26.      HCC Risk Management, Inc.                                                                 Indiana
27.      HCC Service Company, Ltd.                                                                 Texas
28.      HCC Service Delaware, LLC                                                                 Delaware
29.      HCC Strategic Investments, LLC                                                            Delaware
30.      HCC Underwriters, a Texas Corporation                                                     Texas
31.      HCCS Corporation                                                                          Delaware
32.      Houston Casualty Company                                                                  Texas
33.      Intellicare, Inc.                                                                         Alabama
34.      Interra, Inc.                                                                             Indiana
35.      Interra Reinsurance Group, Inc.                                                           Indiana
36.      LDG Insurance Agency Incorporated                                                         Massachusetts
37.      LDG Re (London ) Ltd.                                                                     United Kingdom
38.      LDG Re Worldwide Limited                                                                  Delaware
39.      LDG Reinsurance Corporation                                                               Massachusetts
40.      Loss Management, Inc.                                                                     Delaware
41.      Loss Management Services, Inc.                                                            Maryland
42.      Marshall Adjusting, Corp.                                                                 New York
43.      Marshall Rattner, Inc.                                                                    New York
44.      Merger Sub, Inc.                                                                          Texas
45.      National Insurance Underwriters                                                           Arkansas
46.      PEPYS Holdings Limited                                                                    United Kingdom
47.      PEPYS Management Services Limited                                                         United Kingdom
48.      Premier Risk Services Limited                                                             United Kingdom
49.      Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc.                                                       New Jersey
</TABLE>

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<S>     <C>                                                                                        <C>

50.      Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc. of New York                                           New York
51.      Professional Intermediaries Associates, Inc. d/b/a/PIA Re                                 New York
52.      Rattner MacKenzie Insurance Services (Guernsey) Ltd.                                      Guernsey
53.      Rattner Mackenzie Limited                                                                 United Kingdom
54.      Rattner MacKenzie Limited (RML) (Exempted) Co.                                            Jordan
55.      SBS Insurance Holdings, a Texas Corporation                                               Texas
56.      Select Benefits, Inc.                                                                     Indiana
57.      Signal Aviation Insurance Services, Inc.                                                  Nevada
58.      Special Risk Advisors International, LLC                                                  Georgia
59.      Specialty Insurance Underwriters, Inc.                                                    Missouri
60.      Specialty Reinsurance Intermediaries, Inc.                                                Massachusetts
61.      The Centris Group, Inc.                                                                   Delaware
62.      The Schanen Consulting Group, LLC                                                         Georgia
63.      The Wheatley Group, Ltd.                                                                  New York
64.      TMD Rattner, LLC                                                                          New York
65.      TTR, L.L.C.                                                                               New York
66.      USBenefits Insurance Services, Inc.                                                       California
67.      US Holdings, Inc.                                                                         Delaware
68.      U.S. Specialty Insurance Company                                                          Texas
69.      VASA Brougher, Inc.                                                                       Indiana
70.      VASA Insurance Group, Inc.                                                                Indiana
71.      VASA North America, Inc.                                                                  Indiana
</TABLE>






</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>10
<FILENAME>h95385ex23.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration
statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-89905) and Form S-3 (Nos. 333-58350 and
333-76122) of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. of our reports dated March 19, 2002,
relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedules, which
appear in HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2001.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP


Houston, Texas
March 29, 2002



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>11
<FILENAME>h95385ex24.txt
<DESCRIPTION>POWERS OF ATTORNEY
<TEXT>
<PAGE>



                                POWER OF ATTORNEY



         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and John N. Molbeck, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.



                              /s/ FRANK J. BRAMANTI
                              ---------------------
                              Frank J. Bramanti

                              Date: March 14, 2002


<PAGE>


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and John N. Molbeck, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.



                               /s/ MARVIN P. BUSH
                               ------------------
                               Marvin P. Bush

                               Date: March 18, 2002


<PAGE>




                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and John N. Molbeck, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.





                               /s/ PATRICK B. COLLINS
                               ----------------------
                               Patrick B. Collins

                               Date: March 14, 2002



<PAGE>


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY



         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and John N. Molbeck, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.




                               /s/ JAMES R. CRANE
                               ------------------
                               James R. Crane

                               Date: March 14, 2002


<PAGE>





                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and John N. Molbeck, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.





                               /s/ J. ROBERT DICKERSON
                               -----------------------
                               J. Robert Dickerson

                               Date: March 14, 2002


<PAGE>


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and John N. Molbeck, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.





                               /s/ JAMES C. FLAGG, PHD.
                               -----------------------
                               James C. Flagg, PhD.

                               Date: March 14, 2002


<PAGE>




                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and John N. Molbeck, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.





                               /s/ EDWIN H. FRANK, III
                               -----------------------
                               Edwin H. Frank, III

                               Date: March 14, 2002



<PAGE>



                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and John N. Molbeck, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.





                               /s/ ALLAN W. FULKERSON
                               ----------------------
                               Allan W. Fulkerson

                               Date: March 14, 2002


<PAGE>




                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and John N. Molbeck, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.




                               /s/ WALTER J. LACK
                               ------------------
                               Walter J. Lack

                               Date: March 14, 2002


<PAGE>



                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and John N. Molbeck, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.





                               /s/ STEPHEN J. LOCKWOOD
                               -----------------------
                               Stephen J. Lockwood

                               Date: March 14, 2002


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
