-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FuTy55qWBNEwiPFJubApHks8aR6jI1+Fz2cbVP+lr12v6VEUcbUn1lpCUpLfwgwk
 MTNvVllENIsgP/iZL93jEw==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950129-03-001610.txt : 20030328
<SEC-HEADER>0000950129-03-001610.hdr.sgml : 20030328
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20030327184649
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950129-03-001610
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20021231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20030328

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS INC/DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000888919
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				760336636
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13790
		FILM NUMBER:		03622221

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		13403 NORTHWEST FRWY
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77040-6094
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7136907300
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>h03402e10vk.txt
<DESCRIPTION>HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.- DECEMBER 31, 2002
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                             ---------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

<Table>
<C>          <S>
    [X]      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
             OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.
    [  ]     TRANSACTION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.



             FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002
</Table>

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-20766
                             ---------------------
                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

<Table>
<S>                                            <C>
                   DELAWARE                                      76-0336636
       (State or other jurisdiction of                         (IRS Employer
        incorporation or organization)                      Identification No.)

           13403 NORTHWEST FREEWAY,                              77040-6094
                HOUSTON, TEXAS                                   (Zip Code)
   (Address of principal executive offices)
</Table>

              (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)
                                 (713) 690-7300

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

<Table>
<Caption>
             TITLE OF EACH CLASS                 NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED:
             -------------------                 ------------------------------------------
<S>                                            <C>
        Common Stock, $1.00 Par Value                     New York Stock Exchange
</Table>

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE

     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (the "Act") during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that
the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  [X]     No  [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K (sec.229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [ ]

     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes  [X]     No  [ ]

     The aggregate market value on June 28, 2002 (the last business day of the
Registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter), of the voting stock
held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $1.6 billion. For
purposes of the determination of the above stated amount, only directors and
executive officers are presumed to be affiliates, but neither the Registrant nor
any such person concede that they are affiliates of the Registrant.

     The number of shares outstanding of the Registrant's Common Stock, $1.00
par value, as of March 14, 2003 was 62.7 million.

     Documents incorporated by reference: Information called for in Part III of
this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive Proxy
Statement to be filed within 120 days of the close of the Registrant's fiscal
year in connection with the Registrant's annual meeting of shareholders.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>

                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                        PAGE
                                                                        ----
<S>       <C>                                                           <C>
                                  PART I.
Item 1.   Business....................................................    2
Item 2.   Properties..................................................   30
Item 3.   Legal Proceedings...........................................   30
Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.........   30

                                  PART II.
Item 5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related
          Stockholder Matters.........................................   31
Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.....................................   31
Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
          and Results of Operations...................................   33
Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk...   50
Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.................   51
Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
          and Financial Disclosures...................................   51

                                 PART III.
Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant..........   51
Item 11.  Executive Compensation......................................   51
Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
          Management..................................................   52
Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..............   52
Item 14.  Controls and Procedures.....................................   52

                                  PART IV.
Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form
          8-K.........................................................   53
Signatures ............................................................  54
</Table>

     This report on Form 10-K contains certain "forward-looking statements"
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are intended to be covered by the
safe harbors created by those laws. We have based these forward-looking
statements on our current expectations and projections about future events.
These forward-looking statements include information about possible or assumed
future results of our operations. All statements, other than statements of
historical facts, included or incorporated by reference in this report that
address activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate may
occur in the future, including such things as future capital expenditures,
business strategy, competitive strengths, goals, growth of our business and
operations, plans and references to future successes may be considered
forward-looking statements. Also, when we use words such as "anticipate,"
"believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "probably" or similar
expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. Many risks and
uncertainties may impact the matters addressed in these forward-looking
statements.

     Many possible events or factors could affect our future financial results
and performance. These could cause our results or performance to differ
materially from those we express in our forward-looking statements. Although we
believe that the assumptions underlying our forward-looking statements are
reasonable, any of these assumptions, and therefore also the forward-looking
statements based on these assumptions, could themselves prove to be inaccurate.
In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking
statements which are included in this report, our inclusion of this information
is not a representation by us or any other person that our objectives and plans
will be achieved.

     Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made and we will
not update these forward-looking statements unless the securities laws require
us to do so. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, any
forward-looking events discussed in this report may not occur.

                                        1
<PAGE>

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

TERMINOLOGY

     HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. is a Delaware corporation, which was formed in
1991. Its predecessor corporation was formed in 1974. Our principal executive
offices are located at 13403 Northwest Freeway, Houston, Texas 77040 and our
telephone number is (713) 690-7300. We maintain an Internet web-site at
www.hcch.com. The reference to our Internet web-site address does not constitute
the incorporation by reference of the information contained at this site in this
report. We will make available, free of charge through publication on our
Internet web-site, a copy of our Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q and any current reports on Form 8-K or amendments to those
reports, filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission as soon as
reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished such materials with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

     As used in this report, unless otherwise required by the context, the terms
"we," "us" and "our" refer to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated
subsidiaries, and the term "HCC" refers only to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. All
trade names or trademarks appearing in this report are the property of their
respective holders.

  RISK FACTORS

     The following factors as well as other information contained in this report
should be considered.

IF WE CANNOT OBTAIN ADEQUATE REINSURANCE PROTECTION FOR THE RISKS WE HAVE
UNDERWRITTEN, WE WILL EITHER BE EXPOSED TO GREATER LOSSES FROM THESE RISKS OR WE
WILL REDUCE THE LEVEL OF BUSINESS WE UNDERWRITE, WHICH WILL REDUCE OUR REVENUES.

     We purchase reinsurance for significant amounts of risk underwritten by our
insurance companies, especially catastrophe risks. We also purchase reinsurance
on risks underwritten by others which we reinsure through a retrocession
agreement. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and
cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase, which may affect the level of
our business and profitability. For instance, the natural attrition of
reinsurers who exit lines of business, or who curtail their writings, for
economic or other reasons, reduces the capacity of the reinsurance market,
causing rates to rise. In addition, the historical results of reinsurance
programs and the availability of capital also affect the availability of
reinsurance. Our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal.
We cannot assure you that we can maintain our current reinsurance facilities or
that we can obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at
favorable rates. Further, we cannot determine what the effect of catastrophic
losses will have on the reinsurance market in general and on our ability to
obtain reinsurance in adequate amounts and at favorable rates in particular. If
we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance
facilities, either our net exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling to
bear an increase in net exposures, we would have to reduce the level of our
underwriting commitments, especially catastrophe exposed risks. Either of these
potential developments could have a material adverse effect on our business. The
lack of available reinsurance may also adversely affect our ability to generate
fee and commission income in our underwriting agency and reinsurance
intermediary operations. A reinsurance intermediary structures and arranges
reinsurance between insurers seeking to cede insurance risks and reinsurers
willing to assume such risks.

IF THE COMPANIES THAT PROVIDE OUR REINSURANCE DO NOT PAY ALL OF OUR CLAIMS, WE
COULD INCUR SEVERE LOSSES.

     We purchase reinsurance by transferring, or ceding, part of the risk we
have assumed to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the premium we
receive in connection with the risk. The part of the risk we retain for our own
account is known as the retention. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer
liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred or ceded to the reinsurer, it
does not relieve us, the reinsured, of our full liability to our policyholders,
never the amount above our retention. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with

                                        2
<PAGE>

respect to our reinsurers. We cannot assure you that our reinsurers will pay all
of our reinsurance claims, or that they will pay our claims on a timely basis.

     If we become liable for risks we have ceded to reinsurers or if our
reinsurers cease to meet their obligations to us, whether because they are in a
weakened position as a result of the incurred losses or otherwise, our financial
position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely
affected.

IF WE ARE UNSUCCESSFUL IN COMPETING AGAINST LARGER OR MORE WELL-ESTABLISHED
BUSINESS RIVALS, OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WILL BE
ADVERSELY AFFECTED.

     In our specialty insurance operations, we compete in narrowly-defined niche
classes of business such as the insurance of private aircraft (aviation), and
employer sponsored, self-insured medical plans (medical stop-loss), as
distinguished from such general lines of business as automobile or homeowners
insurance. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected
lines of business, including: American International Group and U.S. Aviation
Insurance Group (a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc.) in our aviation line
of business; SAFECO Corporation and Hartford Life, Inc. in our group life,
accident and health line of business; Underwriters at Lloyd's and ACE Limited in
our London market account line of business and The Chubb Corporation and
Travelers Property Casualty Corp. in our global financial products line of
business. We face competition both from specialty insurance companies,
underwriting agencies and intermediaries as well as from diversified financial
services companies that are significantly larger than we are and that have
significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Some
of these competitors also have longer experience and more market recognition
than we do. In addition to competition in the operation of our business, we face
competition from a variety of sources in attracting and retaining qualified
employees.

     We cannot assure you that we will maintain our current competitive position
in the markets in which we operate, or that we will be able to expand our
operations into new markets. If we fail to do so, our business could be
materially adversely affected.

BECAUSE WE ARE A PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURER, UNFORESEEN CATASTROPHIC LOSSES
MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION.

     Property and casualty insurers are subject to claims arising out of
catastrophes that may have a significant effect on their results of operations,
liquidity and financial condition. Catastrophic losses have had a significant
impact on our results. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including
hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions, severe winter
weather and fires and may include man-made events, such as the September 11,
2001 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. The incidence, frequency and
severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from
a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the
area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are
restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes and
terrorist attacks may produce significant damage in large, heavily populated
areas. Catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of our property and casualty
lines, and most of our past catastrophe-related claims have resulted from
hurricanes and earthquakes; however, as a result of the September 11, 2001
terrorist attack, we experienced the largest single loss to our insurance
company operations in our history. Insurance companies are not permitted to
reserve for a catastrophe until it has occurred. In 2003, we estimate that
approximately 10% of our current business may be affected by catastrophes. It is
therefore possible that a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events
could have material adverse effect upon our results of operations, liquidity and
financial condition.

BECAUSE WE OPERATE INTERNATIONALLY, FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES MAY
AFFECT OUR RECEIVABLE AND PAYABLE BALANCES AND OUR RESERVES, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY
AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.

     We underwrite insurance coverages which are denominated in a number of
foreign currencies, and we establish and maintain our loss reserves with respect
to these policies in their respective currencies. Our net earnings could be
adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations, which would adversely affect
receivable and payable balances and reserves. Our principal area of exposure
relates to fluctuations in exchange rates
                                        3
<PAGE>

between the major European currencies (particularly the British pound sterling
and the Euro) and the U.S. dollar. Consequently, a change in the exchange rate
between the U.S. dollar and the British pound sterling or the Euro could have an
adverse effect on our net earnings.

     On a limited basis, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts as a
hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. The foreign currency forward
contracts are used to convert U.S. dollars at a known rate in an amount that
approximates or is less than monthly British pound sterling expenses of certain
of our London operations. Thus, the effect of these transactions is to limit the
foreign currency exchange risk of the recurring monthly expenses. We use these
foreign currency forward contracts strictly as a cash flow hedge against
existing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations rather than as a form of
speculative or trading investment.

IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH EXTENSIVE STATE, FEDERAL AND FOREIGN REGULATIONS, WE
WILL BE SUBJECT TO PENALTIES, WHICH MAY INCLUDE FINES AND SUSPENSION AND WHICH
MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.

     We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. Most
insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders
rather than shareholders and other investors. This regulation, generally
administered by a department of insurance in each state in which we do business,
relates to, among other things:

     - approval of policy forms and premium rates;

     - standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements (which
       are a measure developed by the National Association of Insurance
       Commissioners and used by state insurance regulators to identify
       insurance companies that potentially are inadequately capitalized);

     - licensing of insurers and their agents;

     - restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments;

     - restrictions on the ability of our insurance companies to pay dividends
       to us;

     - restrictions on transactions between insurance companies and their
       affiliates;

     - restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy;

     - requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders;

     - requiring certain methods of accounting;

     - periodic examinations of our operations and finances;

     - prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition
       required to be filed; and

     - requiring reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes.

     State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the
affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other
reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding
company issues and other matters.

     Recently adopted federal financial services modernization legislation is
expected to lead to additional federal regulation of the insurance industry in
the coming years. Also, foreign governments regulate our international
operations. Our business depends on compliance with applicable laws and
regulations and our ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for our
operations.

     Some regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant,
renew, or revoke licenses and approvals. Regulatory authorities may deny or
revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In
some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations,
or those that we believe to be generally followed by the industry, which may be
different from the requirements or interpretations of regulatory authorities. If
we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals and do not comply with
applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could
preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our
activities or otherwise penalize us. That type of
                                        4
<PAGE>

action could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, changes in
the level of regulation of the insurance industry (whether federal, state or
foreign), or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by
regulatory authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business.

IF THE RATING AGENCIES DOWNGRADE OUR COMPANY OR OUR INSURANCE COMPANIES, OUR
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPETITIVE POSITION IN THE INDUSTRY MAY SUFFER.

     Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the
competitive position of insurance companies. Our insurance companies are rated
by A.M. Best Company, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Corporation. A.M. Best Company,
Inc. and Standard & Poor's Corporation ratings reflect their opinions of an
insurance company's and insurance holding company's financial strength,
operating performance, strategic position, and ability to meet its obligations
to policyholders, and are not evaluations directed to investors. Our ratings are
subject to periodic review by A.M. Best Company, Inc. and Standard & Poor's
Corporation and the continued retention of those ratings cannot be assured. If
our ratings are reduced from their current levels by A.M. Best Company, Inc.
and/or Standard & Poor's Corporation, our results of operations could be
adversely affected.

OUR LOSS RESERVES ARE BASED ON AN ESTIMATE OF OUR FUTURE LIABILITY. IF ACTUAL
CLAIMS PROVE TO BE GREATER THAN OUR RESERVES, OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
FINANCIAL CONDITION MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED.

     We maintain loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for unpaid
losses and loss adjustment expenses, including legal and other fees as well as a
portion of our general expenses, for reported and unreported claims incurred as
of the end of each accounting period. Reserves do not represent an exact
calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what we
expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These
estimates, which generally involve actuarial projections, are based on our
assessment of facts and circumstances then known, as well as estimates of future
trends in claims severity, frequency, judicial theories of liability and other
factors. These variables are affected by both internal and external events, such
as changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends and
legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable in
advance. Additionally, there may be a significant reporting lag between the
occurrence of the insured event and the time it is reported to us. The inherent
uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain types of
liabilities, particularly those in which the various considerations affecting
the type of claim are subject to change and in which long periods of time may
elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made. Reserve estimates
are continually refined in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops
and further claims are reported and settled. Adjustments to reserves are
reflected in the results of the periods in which such estimates are changed.
Because setting reserves is inherently uncertain, there can be no assurance that
current reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent events.

WE INVEST A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR ASSETS IN FIXED INCOME SECURITIES THAT
HAVE EXPERIENCED MARKET FLUCTUATIONS. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE FAIR MARKET VALUE OF
FIXED INCOME SECURITIES MAY GREATLY REDUCE THE VALUE OF OUR INVESTMENT
PORTFOLIO, AND AS A RESULT, OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION MAY SUFFER.

     As of December 31, 2002, $841.5 million of our $1.2 billion investment
portfolio was invested in fixed income securities. The fair market value of
these fixed income securities and the related investment income fluctuate
depending on general economic and market conditions. With respect to our
investments in fixed income securities, the fair market value of these
investments generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with
fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us from
future investments in fixed income securities will generally increase or
decrease with interest rates. In addition, actual net investment income and/or
cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk (such as mortgage-backed
and other asset-backed securities) may differ from those anticipated at the time
of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. An investment has
prepayment risk when there is a risk that the timing of cash flows that result
from the repayment of principal might occur earlier than anticipated because of
declining interest rates or later than anticipated because of rising interest
rates. Although we maintain an investment grade portfolio (96% are rated "A" or
better), our fixed income securities are also subject to credit risk. If any of
the issuers of our fixed income securities suffer financial set backs, the
ratings on the fixed income securities could fall (with a concurrent fall in
market value) and, in a worst case scenario, the issuer
                                        5
<PAGE>

could default on its financial obligations. Historically, the impact of market
fluctuations has affected our financial statements. Because all of our fixed
income securities are classified as available for sale, changes in the fair
market value of our securities are reflected in our other comprehensive income.
Similar treatment is not available for liabilities. Therefore, interest rate
fluctuations could adversely affect our shareholders' equity, total
comprehensive income and/or our cash flows. Unrealized pre-tax net investment
gains on investments in fixed-income securities were $22.0 million, $0.7 million
and $11.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively.

IF STATES DRASTICALLY INCREASE THE ASSESSMENT OUR INSURANCE COMPANIES ARE
REQUIRED TO PAY, OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WILL SUFFER.

     Our insurance companies are subject to assessments in most states where we
are licensed for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered
claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed
insurance companies or for the issuance of insurance policies to "high risk" or
otherwise uninsured individuals. Maximum contributions required by law in any
one year vary by state and have historically been between 1% and 2% of annual
premiums written. We cannot predict with certainty the amount of future
assessments. Significant assessments could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition or results of operations.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN DIVIDENDS IN NEEDED AMOUNTS FROM OUR INSURANCE
COMPANIES AS A RESULT OF REGULATORY RESTRICTIONS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MEET OUR
DEBT, DIVIDEND, AND EXPENSE OBLIGATIONS.

     Our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our insurance
companies. We may rely on dividends from our insurance companies to meet our
obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations,
dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses. The payment of dividends by
our insurance companies is subject to regulatory restrictions and will depend on
the surplus and future earnings of these subsidiaries, as well as the regulatory
restrictions. As a result, should our other sources of funds prove to be
inadequate, we may not be able to receive dividends from our insurance companies
at times and in amounts necessary to meet our obligations.

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

     We provide group life, accident and health and property and casualty
insurance coverages, underwriting agency and intermediary services both to
commercial customers and individuals. We concentrate our activities in selected
narrowly defined specialty lines of business. We operate primarily in the United
States, the United Kingdom and Spain, although some of our operations have a
broader international scope. We underwrite insurance both on a direct basis,
where we insure a risk in exchange for a premium, and on a reinsurance basis,
where we insure all or a portion of another insurance company's risk in exchange
for all or a portion of the premium. We market our insurance products both
directly to customers and through a network of independent or affiliated agents
and brokers.

     Since our founding, we have been consistently profitable, generally
reporting annual increases in gross written premium and total revenue. During
the period 1998 through 2001, we had an average statutory combined ratio of
103.2% versus the less favorable 109.8% (source: A.M. Best Company, Inc.)
recorded by the U.S. property and casualty insurance industry overall. During
the period 1998 through 2002, our gross written premium increased from $498.3
million to $1.2 billion, an increase of 133% while net written premium increased
348% from $121.9 million to $545.9 million. During this period, our revenue
increased from $310.4 million to $669.4 million, an increase of 116%.

     During the period December 31, 1998 through December 31, 2002, our
shareholders' equity increased from $440.4 million to $882.9 million, a 100%
increase. During the same period, our assets increased from $1.7 billion to $3.7
billion, a 117% increase.

                                        6
<PAGE>

     Our insurance companies are risk-bearing and focus their underwriting
activities on providing insurance and/or reinsurance in the following lines of
business:

     - group life, accident and health

     - aviation

     - London market account

     - global financial products

     - other specialty lines

     In the United States, Avemco Insurance Company, U.S. Specialty Insurance
Company and HCC Life Insurance Company operate on an admitted, or licensed,
basis. Houston Casualty Company and HCC Specialty Insurance Company operate on a
surplus lines basis as a non-admitted, or unlicensed, insurer offering insurance
coverage not otherwise available from an admitted insurer in the relevant state.
Houston Casualty Company operates a registered branch office in London and
offers insurance in the United Kingdom and selected other countries. Houston
Casualty Company Europe Seguros y Reaseguros S.A., which does business as HCC
Europe, operates from its Madrid, Spain offices and offers insurance throughout
the European Union and in selected other countries.

     Our operating insurance companies are rated "A+ (Superior)" (2nd of 16
ratings) by A.M. Best Company , Inc. and "AA (Very Strong)" (3rd of 22 ratings)
by Standard and Poor's Corporation, two nationally recognized independent rating
agencies. These ratings are intended to provide an independent opinion of an
insurer's ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not
evaluations directed at investors.

     Our underwriting agencies underwrite on behalf of our insurance companies
and other insurance companies. They receive fees for these services and do not
bear any of the insurance risk of the companies for which they underwrite. Our
underwriting agencies generate revenues based entirely on management fees and
profit commissions and specialize in life, accident and health, contingency
(including contest indemnification, event cancellation, and weather coverages),
directors and officers liability, individual disability (for athletes and other
high profile individuals), kidnap and ransom, professional liability and other
specialty lines of business. Our principal underwriting agencies are ASU
International, LLC, Dickson Manchester & Company Limited, HCC Benefits
Corporation, HCC Global Financial Products and Professional Indemnity Agency,
Inc.

     Our intermediaries provide insurance and reinsurance brokerage services for
our insurance companies and our clients, and receive fees for their services.
Our intermediaries do not bear any of the insurance risks of their client
companies. They earn commission income and to a lesser extent fees for certain
services, generally paid by the insurance and reinsurance companies with whom
the business is placed. These operations consist of consulting with clients by
providing information about insurance coverage and marketing, placing and
negotiating particular insurance risks.

     Our intermediaries specialize in developing and marketing employee benefit
plans on a retail basis and in placing reinsurance for life, accident and
health, and property and casualty lines of business. Our principal
intermediaries are HCC Employee Benefits, Inc., HCC Risk Management, Inc. and
Rattner Mackenzie Limited.

OUR STRATEGY

     Our business philosophy as an insurer is to maximize underwriting profits
while limiting risk in order to preserve shareholders' equity and maximize
earnings. We concentrate our insurance writings in selected, narrowly defined
lines of business where we believe we can achieve an underwriting profit. We
market our insurance products both directly to customers and through independent
or affiliated agents and brokers.

     The property and casualty insurance industry and individual lines of
business within the industry are cyclical in that there are times when a large
number of companies offer insurance on certain lines of business,
                                        7
<PAGE>

causing premiums to trend downward, and other times where insurance companies
decide to limit their writings in certain lines of business or suffer from
excessive losses, which results in an increase in premiums for those companies
that continue to write insurance in those lines of business. In our insurance
company operations, we believe our operational flexibility, which permits us to
shift the focus of our insurance underwriting activity amongst our various lines
of business and also to shift the emphasis from our insurance risk-bearing
business to our non-insurance fee-based business, as well as our experienced
underwriting personnel and access to, and expertise in, the reinsurance
marketplace allow us to implement a strategy of emphasizing more profitable
lines of business during periods of increased premium rates and de-emphasizing
less profitable lines of business during periods of severe competition. In
addition, we believe that our underwriting agencies and intermediaries
complement our insurance underwriting activities. Our ability to utilize
affiliated insurers, underwriting agencies and intermediaries permits us to
retain a greater portion of the gross revenue derived from written premium.

     Reinsurance enables us to transfer part of the risk we have underwritten
through the process of ceding this risk to a reinsurance company in exchange for
part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. We purchase
reinsurance to limit the net loss to our insurance companies from both
individual and catastrophic risks. The amount of reinsurance we purchase varies
by, among other things, the particular risks inherent in the policies
underwritten, the pricing of reinsurance and the competitive conditions within
the relevant line of business.

     In 2002, due to a continuing hardening of the insurance market, premium
rates increased in varying amounts across all of our lines of business,
substantially improving our underwriting profitability. We anticipate continued
underwriting profitability during 2003. In response to these changing market
conditions, we plan to continue to expand the underwriting activities in our
insurance company operations.

     We also acquire or make strategic investments in companies that present an
opportunity for future profits or for enhancement of our business. We expect to
continue to acquire complementary businesses. We believe that we can enhance
acquired businesses through the synergies created by our underwriting
capabilities and our other operations. However, our business plan is shaped by
our underlying business philosophy, which is to maximize underwriting profit,
while preserving shareholders' equity. As a result, our primary objective is to
increase net earnings rather than market share or gross written premium.

     In our ongoing operations, we will continue to:

     - emphasize the underwriting of lines of business in which premium rates,
       the availability and cost of reinsurance, and market conditions warrant;

     - limit our net loss exposure to our insurance companies from a catastrophe
       loss through the use of reinsurance; and

     - review the potential acquisition of specialty insurance operations and
       other strategic investments.

INDUSTRY SEGMENT INFORMATION

     Financial information concerning our operations by industry segment is set
forth in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto.

RECENT ACQUISITIONS

     We have made a series of strategic acquisitions that have furthered our
overall business strategy. Our recent transactions are described below:

     On October 22, 2001, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Marshall
Rattner, Inc. Marshall Rattner, Inc. is a holding company for Professional
Indemnity Agency, Inc. and its related companies. We paid $63.0 million in cash
and 300,000 shares of our common stock for the Marshall Rattner, Inc./
Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc. acquisition. Professional Indemnity Agency,
Inc. is an underwriting agency specializing in the errors and omissions, kidnap
and ransom and professional liability areas.

                                        8
<PAGE>

     On October 30, 2001, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of ASU
International, Inc. and the membership interests in its affiliate, ASU
International, LLC. We paid $29.2 million for the ASU International, LLC
acquisition. ASU International, LLC is an underwriting agency specializing in
contingency and disability insurance. We may pay additional amounts in the
future based upon the attainment of certain earnings benchmarks through December
31, 2004.

     On October 1, 2002, we acquired all of the outstanding member interests of
MAG Global Financial Products, LLC. We paid $6.9 million for the MAG Global
Financial Products, LLC acquisition. MAG Global Financial Products, LLC is an
underwriting agency specializing in directors and officers liability,
professional liability and errors and omissions insurance. MAG Global Financial
Products, LLC has been renamed HCC Global Financial Products, LLC. We may pay
additional amounts in the future based upon the attainment of certain earnings
benchmarks through September, 2007.

     On December 24, 2002, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of
Manchester Dickson Holdings Limited, the parent Company of Dickson Manchester &
Company Limited. We paid $17.0 million for the Dickson Manchester & Company
Limited acquisition. Dickson Manchester & Company Limited is an underwriting
agency and Lloyd's broker specializing in U.K. professional liability products.
We may pay additional amounts in the future based upon the attainment of certain
earnings benchmarks through December 31, 2005.

     On December 31, 2002, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of St. Paul
Holdings Limited. St. Paul Holdings Limited is a holding company for St. Paul
Espana Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros S.A., a Spanish insurer. We paid $18.9
million for the St. Paul acquisition, subject to adjustment based upon the
finalization of the closing date balance sheet. St. Paul Espana writes foreign
surety, directors and officers liability and professional liability insurance in
Spain and other countries in the European Union. St. Paul Espana now operates as
HCC Europe.

     We continue to evaluate possible acquisition candidates and we may complete
additional acquisitions during 2003. Any future acquisitions will be designed to
expand and strengthen our existing lines of business and perhaps provide access
to additional specialty sectors, which we expect to contribute to our overall
growth.

                                        9
<PAGE>

INSURANCE COMPANY OPERATIONS

  LINES OF BUSINESS

     This table shows our insurance companies' total premium written, otherwise
known as gross written premium, by line of business and the percentage of each
line to total gross written premium for the years indicated (dollars in
thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                        2002               2001              2000
                                  ----------------   ----------------   --------------
<S>                               <C>          <C>   <C>          <C>   <C>        <C>
Group life, accident and
  health........................  $  503,263    44%  $  502,086    49%  $422,384    43%
Aviation........................     212,518    18      198,015    20    191,089    20
London market account...........     199,816    17      133,579    13     83,521     9
Global financial products.......     178,653    15           46    --         --    --
Other specialty lines...........      32,563     3       15,556     2     15,906     2
                                  ----------   ---   ----------   ---   --------   ---
                                   1,126,813    97      849,282    84    712,900    74
Discontinued lines of
  business......................      32,436     3      160,793    16    254,557    26
                                  ----------   ---   ----------   ---   --------   ---
     Total gross written
       premium..................  $1,159,249   100%  $1,010,075   100%  $967,457   100%
                                  ==========   ===   ==========   ===   ========   ===
</Table>

     This table shows our insurance companies' actual premium retained,
otherwise known as net written premium, by line of business and the percentage
of each line to total net written premium for the years indicated (dollars in
thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                          2002             2001             2000
                                     --------------   --------------   --------------
<S>                                  <C>        <C>   <C>        <C>   <C>        <C>
Group life, accident and health....  $244,554    45%  $146,220    39%  $109,005    38%
Aviation...........................    99,826    18     98,249    26     79,794    28
London market account..............   113,925    21     54,056    15     22,292     8
Global financial products..........    43,731     8         44    --         --    --
Other specialty lines..............    25,621     5     14,346     4     14,552     5
                                     --------   ---   --------   ---   --------   ---
                                      527,657    97    312,915    84    225,643    79
Discontinued lines of business.....    18,254     3     60,043    16     58,145    21
                                     --------   ---   --------   ---   --------   ---
     Total net written premium.....  $545,911   100%  $372,958   100%  $283,788   100%
                                     ========   ===   ========   ===   ========   ===
</Table>

 UNDERWRITING

     We underwrite direct business produced through independent agents and
brokers, affiliated intermediaries, and by direct marketing efforts. Our
insurance companies write facultative, or individual account, reinsurance, as
well as a treaty reinsurance business.

 GROUP LIFE, ACCIDENT AND HEALTH

     We write medical stop-loss business for employer-sponsored, self-insured
health plans. Our medical stop-loss insurance provides coverages to companies,
associations and public entities that elect to self-insure their employee's
medical coverage for losses within specified levels, allowing them to manage the
risk of excessive health insurance exposure by limiting aggregate and specific
losses to a predetermined amount. We also underwrite a small program of group
life insurance offered to our insureds as complement to our medical stop-loss
products. Our underwriting agency, HCC Benefits Corporation, produces and
underwrites this business on behalf of our insurance companies. We first began
writing this business in our insurance companies in 1997 and gross written
premium and net written premium have increased as a result of greater
participation by our insurance companies, primarily HCC Life Insurance Company
and Avemco Insurance Company. In 1999, we acquired The Centris Group, Inc.,
doubling our gross written premium to approximately $400.0 million. HCC Benefits
Corporation began underwriting this business in 1980 and has grown both
internally and through acquisitions during the past five years. We maintain
reinsurance on a proportional basis, where we share a

                                        10
<PAGE>

proportional part of the original premium and losses with reinsurers, and
believe that these risks carry a relatively low level of catastrophe exposure.

     We began writing alternative workers' compensation and occupational
accident insurance in 1996. We transfer liability, premium and loss with respect
to this business on a non-proportional basis above our net retention to
reinsurers. The business is currently written through U.S. Specialty Insurance
Company. We maintain specific reinsurance on an excess of loss basis and we
believe there is a relatively low level of catastrophe exposure in this
business.

 AVIATION

     We are a market leader in the aviation insurance industry. We insure
general aviation risks, both domestically and internationally, including:

     - antique and vintage military aircraft

     - cargo operations

     - commuter airlines

     - corporate aircraft

     - fixed base operations

     - military and law enforcement aircraft

     - private aircraft owners and pilots

     - rotor wing aircraft

     We offer coverages that include hulls, engines, avionics and other systems,
liabilities, war, cargo and other ancillary coverages. At this time, we do not
generally insure major airlines, major manufacturers or satellites. Insurance
claims related to general aviation business tend to be seasonal, with the
majority of the claims being incurred during the spring and summer months.

     We have been underwriting aviation risks through Houston Casualty Company
since 1981 and in 1997 purchased Avemco Insurance Company, one of the largest
writers of personal aircraft insurance in the United States. Avemco Insurance
Company has been insuring aviation risks since 1959. Our aviation premium has
remained relatively stable since 1998, during which time it returned to
underwriting profitability. Our aviation gross written premium for 2002 was
$212.5 million.

     We maintain reinsurance on both a proportional and excess of loss basis and
believe that the aviation risks we underwrite carry a relatively low level of
catastrophe exposures.

  LONDON MARKET ACCOUNT

     Our London market account business consists of marine, energy, property and
accident and health business and is underwritten by Houston Casualty Company's
London branch office.

     We underwrite marine risks for oceangoing vessels as well as inland,
coastal trading and fishing vessels. The marine risks we write include hull,
liabilities and marine cargo.

     We have underwritten marine risks on both a direct and reinsurance basis
since 1984, and currently write a relatively small book of business due to the
competitive state of the market. In 2002, our gross written premium was $8.8
million.

     We have been underwriting energy risks since 1988, which include:

     - drilling rigs

     - natural gas facilities

     - petrochemical plants

     - pipelines

     - gas production and gathering platforms

     - refineries

     We underwrite physical damage, liabilities and business interruption.

     Rates have been relatively low during the past few years at levels where
underwriting profitability has been difficult to obtain. As a result, we have
underwritten offshore energy risks on a very selective basis, striving for
quality rather than quantity. During 2001 and 2002 we have seen rate increases
that are encouraging and we expect this trend to continue in 2003. In 2002,
gross written premium was $68.3 million.
                                        11
<PAGE>

     We underwrite property business specializing in risks of large, often
multinational, corporations, covering a variety of commercial risks including:

     - factories

     - hotels

     - industrial plants

     - office buildings

     - retail locations

     - utilities

     The insurance we offer includes business interruption, physical damage and
catastrophe risks including flood and earthquake.

     We have written property business since 1986, and due to severe
competition, our gross written premium declined to $45.0 million in 2001 and
$40.8 million in 2002.

     We began writing London market accident and health risks in 1996 including:
trip accident, medical and disability and have steadily increased premiums. Our
gross written premium was $81.9 million in 2002.

     Our London market account business is reinsured both proportionally and on
an excess of loss basis where we transfer liability, premium and loss on a
non-proportional basis, for individual and catastrophe risks, above our net
retention of risk to reinsurers. Catastrophe exposure is more concentrated in
our energy and property lines of business.

  GLOBAL FINANCIAL PRODUCTS

     We underwrite a variety of financial insurance risks in our global
financial products line of business. These risks include:

     - directors and officers liability

     - employment practices liability

     - errors and omissions

     - surety

     We began to underwrite this line of business with our acquisition of
Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc. in October, 2001 and have substantially
increased our level of business in this area through our October, 2002
acquisition of HCC Global Financial Products, LLC and December, 2002
acquisitions of Dickson Manchester & Company Limited and HCC Europe. Each of the
acquired entities has substantial experience in their respective specialty
within this line of business.

     In 2002, we experienced substantial rate increases throughout this line of
business generally caused by high profile corporate governance issues in U.S.
public companies. Gross written premium rose dramatically to $178.6 million
compared to $46 thousand in 2001. We maintain reinsurance on our global
financial products line of business on both a proportional and excess of loss
basis. Although individual losses have potential severity, there is a relatively
low risk of catastrophe exposure.

  OTHER SPECIALTY LINES

     In addition to the above, we underwrite various other specialty lines of
business, of which individual premiums by line of business are not at this time
significant to our overall results of operations.

  PRINCIPAL INSURANCE COMPANIES

     Our operating insurance companies are rated "A+ (Superior)" (2nd of 16
ratings) by A.M. Best Company , Inc. and "AA (Very Strong)" (3rd of 22 ratings)
by Standard and Poor's Corporation, two nationally recognized independent rating
agencies. These ratings are intended to provide an independent opinion of an
insurer's ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not
evaluations directed at investors.

                                        12
<PAGE>

  HOUSTON CASUALTY COMPANY

     Houston Casualty Company is our principal insurance company subsidiary.
Houston Casualty Company operates worldwide and is domiciled and licensed in
Texas and operates on a surplus lines basis in 49 states. Houston Casualty
Company receives business through independent agents and brokers, our
underwriting agencies and intermediaries, and other insurance and reinsurance
companies. Houston Casualty Company writes aviation, London market account,
global financial products and other specialty lines business. Houston Casualty
Company's 2002 gross written premium was $490.2 million.

  HOUSTON CASUALTY COMPANY -- LONDON

     Houston Casualty Company operates a full branch office in the United
Kingdom. Houston Casualty Company established its London branch operation in
order to more closely align its underwriting operations with the London market,
a historical focal point for much of the business that Houston Casualty Company
underwrites. Houston Casualty Company-London underwrites global financial
products and London market account business.

  HCC LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

     HCC Life Insurance Company is an Indiana-domiciled life insurance company
and a subsidiary of Houston Casualty Company. It operates as a group life,
accident and health insurer on an admitted basis in 41 states and the District
of Columbia. HCC Life Insurance Company is an issuing carrier for HCC Benefits
Corporation. HCC Life Insurance Company's gross written premium in 2002 was
$326.1 million.

  U.S. SPECIALTY INSURANCE COMPANY

     U.S. Specialty Insurance Company is a Texas-domiciled property and casualty
insurance company. It is a direct subsidiary of Houston Casualty Company. U.S.
Specialty Insurance Company operates on an admitted basis throughout the United
States, primarily writing aviation, group life, accident and health and global
financial products business. U.S. Specialty Insurance Company acts as an issuing
carrier for certain business underwritten by our underwriting agencies. U.S.
Specialty Insurance Company's gross written premium in 2002 was $143.9 million.

  AVEMCO INSURANCE COMPANY

     Avemco Insurance Company is a Maryland-domiciled property and casualty
insurer, and is operating as a direct market underwriter of aviation business on
an admitted basis throughout the United States. Avemco Insurance Company is also
an issuing carrier for group life, accident and health business underwritten by
our underwriting agencies and an unaffiliated underwriting agency. Avemco
Insurance Company's gross written premium in 2002 was $203.1 million.

  HCC SPECIALTY INSURANCE COMPANY

     HCC Specialty Insurance Company is an Oklahoma domiciled company. HCC
Specialty Insurance Company operates on a surplus lines basis in Texas and
writes global financial products and other specialty lines business produced by
our underwriting agencies. HCC Specialty Insurance Company's gross written
premium in 2002 was $1.7 million.

  HCC EUROPE

     HCC Europe was acquired on December 31, 2002. HCC Europe is a Spanish
insurer and underwrites global financial products business throughout the
European Union and in selected other countries. We also intend to utilize HCC
Europe as an issuing carrier for the business produced by our underwriting
agencies.

                                        13
<PAGE>

UNDERWRITING AGENCY OPERATIONS

     Our underwriting agencies act on behalf of affiliated and non-affiliated
insurance companies and provide insurance underwriting management and claims
administration services. Our underwriting agencies do not assume any insurance
or reinsurance risk themselves and generate revenues based entirely on
management fees and profit commissions. These subsidiaries are in a position to
direct and control business that they produce. Our insurance companies serve as
policy issuing companies for the majority of the business written by our
underwriting agencies. In instances where our insurance companies are not the
policy issuing company, our insurance companies may reinsure the business
written by the underwriting agencies. Management fees generated by our
underwriting agencies in 2002 amounted to $77.1 million.

  LINES OF BUSINESS

     This table shows our underwriting agencies' revenue by line of business for
the years indicated (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                            2002            2001            2000
                                        -------------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                     <C>       <C>   <C>       <C>   <C>       <C>
Life, accident and health.............  $44,615    58%  $47,857    77%  $70,536    73%
Property and casualty.................   32,467    42    13,938    23    25,522    27
                                        -------   ---   -------   ---   -------   ---
          Total management fees.......  $77,082   100%  $61,795   100%  $96,058   100%
                                        =======   ===   =======   ===   =======   ===
</Table>

  HCC BENEFITS CORPORATION

     HCC Benefits Corporation has its home office in Atlanta, Georgia and
regional offices in Costa Mesa, California; Wakefield, Massachusetts;
Minneapolis, Minnesota; and Dallas, Texas. HCC Benefits Corporation underwrites
group life, accident and health business on behalf of affiliated insurance
companies.

  PROFESSIONAL INDEMNITY AGENCY, INC.

     We acquired Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc. in October, 2001.
Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc., with its home office in Mount Kisco, New
York and a branch office in San Francisco, California, acts as an underwriting
manager for global financial products business on behalf of affiliated and
unaffiliated insurance companies.

  ASU INTERNATIONAL, LLC

     We acquired ASU International, LLC in October, 2001.  ASU International,
LLC, with its home office in Woburn, Massachusetts and a branch office in
London, England acts as an underwriting manager for group life, accident and
health and other specialty lines of business on behalf of affiliated and
unaffiliated insurance companies.

  HCC GLOBAL FINANCIAL PRODUCTS, LLC

     We acquired HCC Global Financial Products, LLC in October, 2002. HCC Global
Financial Products, LLC was formerly known as MAG Global Financial Products, LLC
and has offices in Farmington, Connecticut, Houston, Texas, Jersey City, New
Jersey, Barcelona, Spain and London, England. HCC Global Financial Products, LLC
acts as an underwriting manager for global financial products business on behalf
of affiliated insurance companies.

  DICKSON MANCHESTER & COMPANY LIMITED

     We acquired Dickson Manchester & Company Limited in December, 2002. Dickson
Manchester & Company Limited is an underwriting agency and Lloyd's broker based
in London, England and underwrites global financial products business on behalf
of affiliated and unaffiliated insurance companies.

                                        14
<PAGE>

INTERMEDIARY OPERATIONS

     Our intermediaries provide a variety of services, including marketing,
placing, consulting on and servicing insurance risks for their clients, which
include medium to large corporations, unaffiliated and affiliated insurance and
reinsurance companies and other risk taking entities. The intermediaries earn
commission income and to a lesser extent fees for certain services, generally
paid by the underwriters with whom the business is placed. Some of these risks
may be initially underwritten by our insurance companies, which may retain a
portion of the risk. Commission income generated by our intermediaries in 2002
amounted to $41.6 million.

     This table shows our intermediaries' revenue by line of business for the
years indicated (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                            2002            2001            2000
                                        -------------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                     <C>       <C>   <C>       <C>   <C>       <C>
Life, accident and health.............  $32,045    77%  $33,739    78%  $36,795    74%
Property and casualty.................    9,527    23     9,673    22    13,091    26
                                        -------   ---   -------   ---   -------   ---
          Total commission income.....  $41,572   100%  $43,412   100%  $49,886   100%
                                        =======   ===   =======   ===   =======   ===
</Table>

  RATTNER MACKENZIE LIMITED

     Rattner Mackenzie Limited is an intermediary based in London, England with
other operations in Bermuda. Rattner Mackenzie Limited is a Lloyd's broker
specializing in group life, accident and health reinsurance and some specialty
property and casualty lines of business. Rattner Mackenzie Limited is considered
a market leader in its core businesses. Rattner Mackenzie Limited serves as an
intermediary for reinsurance business placed by unaffiliated and affiliated
insurance companies and reinsurance companies and underwriting agencies.

  HCC EMPLOYEE BENEFITS, INC.

     HCC Employee Benefits, Inc., with operations in Houston, Texas and Atlanta,
Georgia, is a retail insurance agency and consulting firm specializing in group
life, accident and health insurance for employee benefit plans of medium and
large commercial customers throughout the United States. We acquired Schanen
Consulting Corporation of Atlanta, Georgia in January, 2001 and consolidated its
operations with those of HCC Employee Benefits, Inc.

  HCC RISK MANAGEMENT, INC.

     HCC Risk Management, Inc., based in Houston, Texas, is an intermediary
specializing in marketing and servicing large, complicated insurance and
reinsurance programs placed on behalf of multinational clients operating in our
lines of business. This business is placed with domestic and international
insurance companies, including our insurance companies, on a direct basis and
through other intermediaries. In addition, HCC Risk Management, Inc. acts as a
reinsurance intermediary on behalf of affiliated and unaffiliated insurance
companies.

OTHER OPERATIONS

     Our other operations historically consisted of insurance related services
offered to our subsidiaries, our reinsurers and unaffiliated entities. The
revenue earned from these services primarily consisted of fees or commissions.
Additionally, other operating income may be in the form of equity in the
earnings of insurance related companies in which we invest, or dividends or
gains or losses from the disposition of these investments. Other operating
revenue was $7.0 million in 2002, but can vary considerably from period to
period depending on investment or disposition activity.

                                        15
<PAGE>

REINSURANCE CEDED

     We purchase reinsurance to reduce our net liability on individual risks, to
protect against catastrophe losses and to achieve a desired ratio of net written
premium to policyholders' surplus. We purchase reinsurance on both a
proportional and an excess of loss basis. The type, cost and limits of
reinsurance we purchase can vary from year to year based upon our desired
retention levels and the availability of quality reinsurance at an acceptable
price. Our reinsurance programs renew throughout the year and during 2002 some
of those renewed contained price increases which are not material to our
underwriting results.

     We structure a specific reinsurance program for each line of business we
underwrite. We place reinsurance proportionally to cover loss frequency and
catastrophe exposure. We obtain reinsurance on an excess of loss basis to cover
individual risk severity of loss and catastrophe exposure. Additionally, we may
also obtain facultative reinsurance protection on a single risk. Our reinsurance
generally does not cover war or terrorism risks, which are excluded from many of
our policies.

     Subsequent to the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001, where possible,
we canceled all terrorist coverage under the terms of existing in-force
policies, primarily in the property and energy book of the London market account
line of business. Our reinsurance protections in these books have been renewed
without coverage for acts of terrorism. We thus only have exposure on policies
that contained such coverage and are still in force. This exposure is
diminishing as these policies expire and with respect to some risks, would be
covered by the provisions of the Federal Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002.

     In our proportional reinsurance programs, we generally receive an
overriding (ceding) commission on the premium ceded to reinsurers. This
compensates our insurance companies for the direct costs associated with the
production of the business, the servicing of the business during the term of the
policies ceded and the costs associated with the placement of the related
reinsurance. In addition, certain of our reinsurance treaties allow us to share
with the reinsurers in any net profits generated under such treaties. Various
intermediaries, including HCC Risk Management, Inc. and Rattner Mackenzie
Limited, arrange for the placement of this reinsurance coverage on our behalf
and are compensated, directly or indirectly, by the reinsurers.

     We have a reserve of $7.1 million as of December 31, 2002 for potential
collectibility issues and associated expenses related to reinsurance
recoverables. The adverse economic environment in the worldwide insurance
industry, the decline in the market value of investments in equity securities
and the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001 have placed great pressure on
reinsurers and the results of their operations. Ultimately, these conditions
could affect reinsurers' solvency. Historically, there have been insolvencies
following a period of competitive pricing in the industry. While we believe that
the reserve is adequate based on currently available information, conditions may
change or additional information might be obtained which may result in a future
change in the reserve. We periodically review our financial exposure to the
reinsurance market and the level of our reserve and continue to take actions in
an attempt to mitigate our exposure to possible loss.

     A number of reinsurers have delayed or suspended the payment of amounts
recoverable under certain reinsurance contracts to which we are a party. Such
delays have affected, although not materially to date, the investment income of
our insurance companies, but not to any extent their liquidity. We limit our
liquidity exposure by holding funds, letters of credit or other security such
that net balances due are significantly less than the gross balances shown in
our consolidated balance sheets. In some instances, the reinsurers have withheld
payment without reference to a substantive basis for the delay or suspension. In
other cases, the reinsurers have claimed they are not liable for payment to us
of all or part of the amounts due under the applicable reinsurance agreement. We
believe these claims are without merit and expect to collect the full amounts
recoverable. We are currently in negotiations with most of these parties, but if
such negotiations do not result in a satisfactory resolution of the matters in
question, we may seek or be involved in a judicial or arbitral determination of
these matters. In some cases, the final resolution of such disputes through
arbitration or litigation may extend over several years. In this regard, as of
December 31, 2002, our insurance companies had initiated two litigation
proceedings against reinsurers. As of such date, our insurance companies had an
aggregate amount of $5.8 million which had not been paid to us under the
agreements and we estimate that there could be up to an additional $10.7 million
of incurred losses and loss expenses and other balances due under the subject
agreements.
                                        16
<PAGE>

OPERATING RATIOS

  PREMIUM TO SURPLUS RATIO

     This table shows, for the years indicated, the ratio of statutory gross
written premium and net written premium to statutory policyholders' surplus for
our property and casualty insurance companies (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                  2002         2001        2000       1999       1998
                               ----------   ----------   --------   --------   --------
<S>                            <C>          <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>
Gross written premium........  $1,163,397   $1,014,833   $972,154   $576,184   $500,962
Net written premium..........     545,475      371,409    283,947    150,261    123,315
Policyholders' surplus.......     523,807      401,393    326,249    315,474    369,401
Gross written premium
  ratio......................       222.1%       252.8%     298.0%     182.6%     135.6%
Gross written premium
  industry average(1)........           *        210.8%     174.1%     154.1%     147.9%
Net written premium ratio....       104.1%        92.5%      87.0%      47.6%      33.4%
Net written premium industry
  average(1).................           *        112.0%      94.4%      85.5%      84.3%
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Source: A.M. Best Company, Inc.

 *  Not available

     While there is no statutory requirement regarding a permissible premium to
policyholders' surplus ratio, guidelines established by the National Association
of Insurance Commissioners provide that a property and casualty insurer's annual
statutory gross written premium should not exceed 900% and net written premium
should not exceed 300% of its policyholders' surplus. However, industry
standards and rating agency criteria place these ratios at 300% and 200%,
respectively. Our property and casualty insurance companies have maintained
premium to surplus ratios generally lower than such guidelines.

  COMBINED RATIO IN ACCORDANCE WITH GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES

     The underwriting experience of a property and casualty insurance company is
indicated by its combined ratio. Under generally accepted accounting principles,
the combined ratio is a combination of the loss ratio in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, or the ratio of incurred losses and
loss adjustment expenses to net earned premium, and the expense ratio in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which is the ratio of
policy acquisition costs and other underwriting expenses, net of ceding
commissions, to net earned premium. Our insurance companies' loss ratios,
expense ratios and combined ratios in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles are shown in the following table for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                    2002   2001    2000   1999    1998
                                                    ----   -----   ----   -----   ----
<S>                                                 <C>    <C>     <C>    <C>     <C>
Loss ratio........................................  60.6%   78.0%  74.2%   77.6%  63.8%
Expense ratio.....................................  25.4    25.7   21.0    51.7   21.5
                                                    ----   -----   ----   -----   ----
Combined ratio....................................  86.0%  103.7%  95.2%  129.3%  85.3%
                                                    ====   =====   ====   =====   ====
Combined ratio excluding the effects of the
  provision for reinsurance in 1999...............                         98.6%
                                                                          =====
</Table>

  COMBINED RATIO IN ACCORDANCE WITH STATUTORY ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES

     The combined ratio in accordance with statutory accounting principles is a
combination of the loss ratio in accordance with statutory accounting
principles, or the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses to net
earned premium, and the expense ratio in accordance with statutory accounting
principles, which is the ratio of policy acquisition costs and other
underwriting expenses, net of ceding commissions, to net written

                                        17
<PAGE>

premium. Our insurance companies' loss ratios, expense ratios and combined
ratios in accordance with statutory accounting principles are shown in the
following table for the years indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                  2002   2001    2000    1999    1998
                                                  ----   -----   -----   -----   -----
<S>                                               <C>    <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>
Loss ratio......................................  62.0%   78.0%   71.1%  107.1%   67.2%
Expense ratio...................................  23.9    23.8    27.0    22.8    15.7
                                                  ----   -----   -----   -----   -----
Combined ratio..................................  85.9%  101.8%   98.1%  129.9%   82.9%
                                                  ====   =====   =====   =====   =====
Combined ratio excluding the effects of the
  provision for reinsurance in 1999.............                         104.1%
                                                                         =====
Industry average................................   *     115.9%  110.1%  107.8%  105.6%
</Table>

- ---------------

* Not available

     The ratio data in accordance with statutory accounting principles is not
intended to be a substitute for results of operations in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. The differences between statutory
accounting principles and generally accepted accounting principles are described
in Note (14) of our consolidated financial statements included in this report.
Including this information on the basis of statutory accounting principles is
meaningful and useful to allow a comparison of our operating results with those
of other companies in the insurance industry. The source of the industry average
is A.M. Best Company, Inc. A.M. Best Company, Inc. reports on insurer
performance on the basis of statutory accounting principles to provide for more
standardized comparisons among individual companies, as well as overall industry
performance.

RESERVES

     Applicable insurance laws require us to maintain reserves to cover our
estimated ultimate liability for reported and incurred but not reported losses
under insurance and reinsurance policies that we wrote and for loss adjustment
expenses relating to the investigation and settlement of policy claims. In most
cases, we estimate such losses and claims costs through an evaluation of
individual claims. However, for some types of claims, we use an average
reserving method until more information becomes available to permit an
evaluation of individual claims.

     We establish loss reserves for individual claims by evaluating reported
claims on the basis of:

     - jurisdiction of the occurrence;

     - our experience with the insured and the line of business and policy
       provisions relating to the particular type of claim;

     - our knowledge of the circumstances surrounding the claim;

     - the information and reports received from ceding insurance companies
       where applicable;

     - the potential for ultimate exposure;

     - the severity of injury or damage; and

     - the type of loss.

     We establish loss reserves for incurred but not reported losses based in
part on statistical information and in part on industry experience with respect
to the probable number and nature of claims arising from occurrences that have
not been reported. We also establish our reserves based on predictions of future
events, our estimates of future trends in claims severity, and other subjective
factors. Insurance companies are not permitted to reserve for a catastrophe
until it has occurred. Reserves are recorded on an undiscounted basis, except
for reserves acquired in transactions recorded using the purchase method of
accounting. The reserves of each of our insurance companies are established in
conjunction with and reviewed by our in-house actuarial staff and our reserves
in accordance with statutory accounting principles are certified annually by our

                                        18
<PAGE>

independent actuaries. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP certified the reserves of our
insurance companies in accordance with statutory accounting principles as of
December 31, 2002.

     With respect to some classes of risks, the period of time between the
occurrence of an insured event and the final settlement of a claim may be many
years, and during this period it often becomes necessary to adjust the claim
estimates either upward or downward. Certain classes of marine and offshore
energy and workers' compensation insurance which are or were underwritten by our
insurance companies have historically had longer lead times between the
occurrence of an insured event, reporting of the claim, and final settlement. In
such cases, we are forced to estimate reserves over long periods of time with
the possibility of several adjustments to reserves. Other classes of insurance
that we underwrite, such as most aviation, property and medical stop-loss,
historically have shorter lead times between the occurrence of an insured event,
reporting of the claim and final settlement. Reserves with respect to these
classes are, therefore, less likely to be adjusted.

     The reserving process is intended to reflect the impact of inflation and
other factors affecting loss payments by taking into account changes in
historical payment patterns and perceived trends. However, there is no precise
method for the subsequent evaluation of the adequacy of the consideration given
to inflation, or to any other specific factor, or to the way one factor may
impact another.

     We underwrite, directly and through reinsurance, risks which are
denominated in a number of foreign currencies, and therefore maintain loss
reserves with respect to these policies in the respective currencies. These
reserves are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, which may have an effect on
our earnings. We may attempt to limit our exposure to future currency
fluctuations through the use of foreign currency forward contracts.

     The loss development triangles below show changes in our reserves in
subsequent years from the prior loss estimates based on experience as of the end
of each succeeding year on the basis of generally accepted accounting
principles. The estimate is increased or decreased as more information becomes
known about the frequency and severity of losses for individual years. A
redundancy means the original estimate was higher than the current estimate; a
deficiency means that the current estimate is higher than the original estimate.

     The first line of each loss development triangle presents, for the years
indicated, our gross or net reserve liability including the reserve for incurred
but not reported losses. The first section of each table shows, by year, the
cumulative amounts of loss and loss adjustment expense paid as of the end of
each succeeding year. The second section sets forth the re-estimates in later
years of incurred losses, including payments, for the years indicated. The
"cumulative redundancy (deficiency)" represents, as of the date indicated, the
difference between the latest re-estimated liability and the reserves as
originally estimated.

                                        19
<PAGE>

     This loss development triangle shows development in loss reserves on a
gross basis (in thousands):
<Table>
<Caption>
                                2002         2001        2000       1999       1998       1997       1996       1995       1994
                             ----------   ----------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
<S>                          <C>          <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Balance sheet reserves:....  $1,155,290   $1,130,748   $944,117   $871,104   $460,511   $275,008   $229,049   $200,756   $170,957
Reserve adjustments from
 acquisition and
 disposition of
 subsidiaries..............                       --    (66,571)   (32,437)      (136)        --         --         --         --
                             ----------   ----------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
   Adjusted reserves.......   1,155,290    1,130,748    877,546    838,667    460,375    275,008    229,049    200,756    170,957
Cumulative paid as of:
 One year later............                  388,722    400,279    424,379    229,746    160,324    119,453    118,656     97,580
 Two years later...........                             537,354    561,246    367,512    209,724    179,117    167,459    143,114
 Three years later.........                                        611,239    419,209    241,523    193,872    207,191    166,541
 Four years later..........                                                   435,625    259,067    212,097    214,046    192,540
 Five years later..........                                                              262,838    223,701    226,762    195,930
 Six years later...........                                                                         225,595    233,831    202,844
 Seven years later.........                                                                                    235,236    208,112
 Eight years later.........                                                                                               209,056
 Nine years later..........
 Ten years later...........
Re-estimated liability as
 of:
 End of year...............   1,155,290    1,130,748    877,546    838,667    460,375    275,008    229,049    200,756    170,957
 One year later............                1,107,588    922,080    836,775    550,409    308,501    252,236    243,259    186,898
 Two years later...........                             925,922    868,438    545,955    316,250    249,013    248,372    207,511
 Three years later.........                                        854,987    547,179    304,281    250,817    247,053    214,738
 Four years later..........                                                   537,968    305,022    247,245    248,687    220,695
 Five years later..........                                                              295,975    249,853    248,559    217,892
 Six years later...........                                                                         243,015    250,176    219,196
 Seven years later.........                                                                                    246,661    219,002
 Eight years later.........                                                                                               219,478
 Nine years later..........
 Ten years later...........
Cumulative redundancy
 (deficiency)..............               $   23,160   $(48,376)  $(16,320)  $(77,593)  $(20,967)  $(13,966)  $(45,905)  $(48,521)

<Caption>
                               1993       1992
                             --------   ---------
<S>                          <C>        <C>
Balance sheet reserves:....  $144,178   $ 129,503
Reserve adjustments from
 acquisition and
 disposition of
 subsidiaries..............        --          --
                             --------   ---------
   Adjusted reserves.......   144,178     129,503
Cumulative paid as of:
 One year later............    82,538      83,574
 Two years later...........   126,290     130,379
 Three years later.........   157,509     158,973
 Four years later..........   176,472     182,193
 Five years later..........   195,269     192,512
 Six years later...........   197,147     213,052
 Seven years later.........   203,075     215,280
 Eight years later.........   207,474     221,403
 Nine years later..........   208,049     225,706
 Ten years later...........               226,143
Re-estimated liability as
 of:
 End of year...............   144,178     129,503
 One year later............   163,967     162,827
 Two years later...........   183,015     176,817
 Three years later.........   203,137     194,419
 Four years later..........   211,546     215,531
 Five years later..........   218,182     222,746
 Six years later...........   214,498     234,115
 Seven years later.........   216,820     231,269
 Eight years later.........   216,627     233,995
 Nine years later..........   216,542     233,865
 Ten years later...........               233,921
Cumulative redundancy
 (deficiency)..............  $(72,364)  $(104,418)
</Table>

     The gross redundancy for 2001 resulted from the following items:

     - A $21.5 million reduction in gross losses from the September 11 terrorist
       attack and a $14.0 million reduction in gross losses from the Total Oil
       Company loss. Both of these losses were substantially reinsured and thus
       they had no material net effect.

     - $36.2 million in negative development due to late reporting of an
       aggregate program that we no longer write. As this program is
       substantially reinsured, there was no material net effect.

     - A $7.7 million charge related to certain business included in
       discontinued lines.

     - $31.5 million in other positive development spread across the group life,
       accident and health, aviation and London market account lines of
       business. On average these losses were 55% ceded, which created net
       positive development of approximately $14.5 million.

     The gross deficiencies reflected in the table for 2000 and 1999 result from
late reported loss information received during 2001. These losses primarily came
from assumed reinsurance business written by one of our insurance companies.
However, as these policies were substantially reinsured, there was no material
effect to our net earnings.

     The gross deficiencies reflected in the table for the years prior to 1999
result from three principal conditions:

     - The development of large claims on individual policies which were either
       reported late or for which reserves were increased as subsequent
       information became available. However, as these policies were
       substantially reinsured, there was no material effect to our net
       earnings.

                                        20
<PAGE>

     - During 1999, in connection with the insolvency of one of our reinsurers
       and the commutation of all liabilities with another, we re-evaluated all
       loss reserves and incurred but not reported loss reserves related to
       business placed with these reinsurers to determine the ultimate losses we
       might conservatively expect. These reserves were then used as the basis
       for the determination of the provision for reinsurance recorded in 1999.

     - For the years prior to 1997, the runoff of the retrocessional excess of
       loss business, which we underwrote between 1988 and 1991, experienced
       gross development. This development was due primarily to the delay in
       reporting of losses by the London insurance market, coupled with the
       unprecedented number of catastrophe losses during that period. This
       business was substantially reinsured and there was no material effect to
       our net earnings.

     This loss development triangle shows development in loss reserves on a net
basis (in thousands):
<Table>
<Caption>
                                2002         2001         2000        1999       1998       1997       1996       1995       1994
                             ----------   ----------   ----------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
<S>                          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Gross reserves.............  $1,155,290   $1,130,748   $  944,117   $871,104   $460,511   $275,008   $229,049   $200,756   $170,957
Less reinsurance
 recoverables..............     697,972      817,651      694,245    597,498    341,599    155,374    111,766    101,497     95,279
                             ----------   ----------   ----------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
Reserves, net of
 reinsurance...............     457,318      313,097      249,872    273,606    118,912    119,634    117,283     99,259     75,678
Reserve adjustments from
 acquisition and
 disposition of
 subsidiaries..............          --           --       (6,048)    (3,343)      (410)        --         --         --         --
Effect on loss reserves of
 1999 write off of
 reinsurance
 recoverables..............          --           --           --         --     63,851     15,008      2,636      1,442         51
                             ----------   ----------   ----------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
Adjusted reserves, net of
 reinsurance...............     457,318      313,097      243,824    270,263    182,353    134,642    119,919    100,701     75,729
Cumulative paid, net of
 reinsurance, as of:
 One year later............                  126,019      102,244    145,993     56,052     48,775     47,874     41,947     36,500
 Two years later...........                               139,659    174,534    103,580     64,213     66,030     56,803     49,283
 Three years later.........                                          185,744    113,762     80,227     72,863     64,798     56,919
 Four years later..........                                                     121,293     81,845     81,620     67,355     60,441
 Five years later..........                                                                 84,986     81,968     72,627     61,781
 Six years later...........                                                                            82,681     73,501     66,591
 Seven years later.........                                                                                       73,792     66,410
 Eight years later.........                                                                                                  66,749
 Nine years later..........
 Ten years later...........
Re-estimated liability, net
 of reinsurance, as of:
 End of year...............     457,318      313,097      243,824    270,263    182,353    134,642    119,919    100,701     75,729
 One year later............                  306,318      233,111    260,678    186,967    120,049    116,145     95,764     72,963
 Two years later...........                               222,330    254,373    175,339    116,745    101,595     94,992     74,887
 Three years later.........                                          244,650    171,165    110,673     97,353     85,484     76,474
 Four years later..........                                                     163,349    107,138     95,118     80,890     73,660
 Five years later..........                                                                103,243     93,528     79,626     69,528
 Six years later...........                                                                            91,413     79,968     70,642
 Seven years later.........                                                                                       78,614     70,278
 Eight years later.........                                                                                                  70,060
 Nine years later..........
 Ten years later...........
Cumulative redundancy
 (deficiency)..............               $    6,779   $   21,494   $ 25,613   $ 19,004   $ 31,399   $ 28,506   $ 22,087   $  5,669

<Caption>
                               1993       1992
                             --------   --------
<S>                          <C>        <C>
Gross reserves.............  $144,178   $129,503
Less reinsurance
 recoverables..............    82,289     81,075
                             --------   --------
Reserves, net of
 reinsurance...............    61,889     48,428
Reserve adjustments from
 acquisition and
 disposition of
 subsidiaries..............        --         --
Effect on loss reserves of
 1999 write off of
 reinsurance
 recoverables..............        --         --
                             --------   --------
Adjusted reserves, net of
 reinsurance...............    61,889     48,428
Cumulative paid, net of
 reinsurance, as of:
 One year later............    29,258     18,978
 Two years later...........    41,207     32,733
 Three years later.........    46,576     36,536
 Four years later..........    51,536     38,480
 Five years later..........    53,110     40,327
 Six years later...........    53,879     40,550
 Seven years later.........    58,353     41,133
 Eight years later.........    58,713     45,552
 Nine years later..........    60,658     45,837
 Ten years later...........               47,693
Re-estimated liability, net
 of reinsurance, as of:
 End of year...............    61,889     48,428
 One year later............    59,659     45,812
 Two years later...........    60,079     44,964
 Three years later.........    62,224     46,129
 Four years later..........    64,377     48,993
 Five years later..........    64,103     50,785
 Six years later...........    59,408     50,585
 Seven years later.........    60,960     46,071
 Eight years later.........    60,729     47,629
 Nine years later..........    62,874     47,407
 Ten years later...........               49,460
Cumulative redundancy
 (deficiency)..............  $   (985)  $ (1,032)
</Table>

     We believe that our loss reserves are adequate to provide for all material
net incurred losses.

                                        21
<PAGE>

     The following table provides a reconciliation of the gross liability of
loss and loss adjustment expenses on the basis of generally accepted accounting
principles in the United States for the three years ended December 31, 2002 (in
thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                       2002         2001        2000
                                                    ----------   ----------   --------
<S>                                                 <C>          <C>          <C>
Reserves for loss and loss adjustment expense at
  beginning of year...............................  $1,130,748   $  944,117   $871,104
Reserve adjustments from acquisition and
  disposition of subsidiaries.....................      82,289      (69,725)     1,709
Incurred loss and loss adjustment expense:
  Provision for loss and loss adjustment expense
     for claims occurring in the current year.....     627,412    1,019,311    775,538
  Increase (decrease) in estimated loss and loss
     adjustment expense for claims occurring in
     prior years(1)...............................     (23,160)      44,534     (1,892)
                                                    ----------   ----------   --------
Incurred loss and loss adjustment expense.........     604,252    1,063,845    773,646
                                                    ----------   ----------   --------
Loss and loss adjustment expense payments for
  claims occurring during:
  Current year....................................     273,277      407,210    277,963
  Prior years.....................................     388,722      400,279    424,379
                                                    ----------   ----------   --------
Loss and loss adjustment expense payments.........     661,999      807,489    702,342
                                                    ----------   ----------   --------
Reserves for loss and loss adjustment expense at
  end of the year.................................  $1,155,290   $1,130,748   $944,117
                                                    ==========   ==========   ========
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Changes in loss and loss adjustment expense reserves (on the basis of
    generally accepted accounting principles) for losses occurring in prior
    years reflect the gross effect of the resolution of losses for other than
    the reserve value and the subsequent adjustments of loss reserves.

     This table provides a reconciliation of the liability for loss and loss
adjustment expense, net of reinsurance ceded, on the basis of generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States for the three years ended December
31, 2002 (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         2002       2001       2000
                                                       --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                    <C>        <C>        <C>
Reserves for loss and loss adjustment expense at
  beginning of year..................................  $313,097   $249,872   $273,606
Reserve adjustments from acquisition and disposition
  of subsidiaries....................................    79,558        285        514
Incurred loss and loss adjustment expense:
  Provision for loss and loss adjustment expense for
     claims occurring in the current year............   313,270    278,103    208,055
  Increase (decrease) in estimated loss and loss
     adjustment expense for claims occurring in prior
     years(2)........................................    (6,779)   (10,713)    (9,585)
                                                       --------   --------   --------
Incurred loss and loss adjustment expense............   306,491    267,390    198,470
                                                       --------   --------   --------
Loss and loss adjustment expense payments for claims
  occurring during:
  Current year.......................................   115,809    102,206     76,725
  Prior years........................................   126,019    102,244    145,993
                                                       --------   --------   --------
Loss and loss adjustment expense payments............   241,828    204,450    222,718
                                                       --------   --------   --------
Reserves for loss and loss adjustment expense at end
  of the year........................................  $457,318   $313,097   $249,872
                                                       ========   ========   ========
</Table>

                                        22
<PAGE>

- ---------------

(2) Changes in loss and loss adjustment expense reserves (on the basis of
    generally accepted accounting principles) for losses occurring in prior
    years reflect the net effect of the resolution of losses for other than the
    reserve value and the subsequent adjustments of loss reserves.

     Although we experienced a gross loss deficiency during 2001, the business
was substantially reinsured and, therefore, there was no material effect to our
insurance companies on a net loss basis.

     During 2002, we had net loss and loss adjustment expense redundancy of $6.8
million relating to prior year losses compared to redundancies of $10.7 million
in 2001 and $9.6 million in 2000. The 2002 redundancy resulted from a deficiency
of $7.7 million due to a third quarter charge related to certain business
included in discontinued lines, offset by a net redundancy of $14.5 million from
all other sources. Deficiencies and redundancies in the reserves occur as we
continually review our loss reserves with our actuaries, increasing or reducing
loss reserves as a result of such reviews and as losses are finally settled and
claims exposures are reduced. We believe we have provided for all material net
incurred losses.

     We have no material exposure to environmental pollution losses, because
Houston Casualty Company only began writing business in 1981 and its policies
normally contain pollution exclusion clauses which limit pollution coverage to
"sudden and accidental" losses only, thus excluding intentional (dumping) and
seepage claims. Policies issued by HCC Life Insurance Company, Avemco Insurance
Company and U.S. Specialty Insurance Company, because of the types of risks
covered, are not considered to have significant environmental exposures. We do
not expect to experience any material development in reserves for environmental
pollution claims. Likewise, we have no material exposure to asbestos claims.

INVESTMENTS

     Insurance company investments must comply with applicable regulations which
prescribe the type, quality and concentration of investments. These regulations
permit investments, within specified limits and subject to certain
qualifications, in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds,
and preferred and common equity securities. As of December 31, 2002, we had $1.2
billion of investment assets. The majority of our investment assets are held by
our insurance companies. All of our securities are classified as available for
sale and are recorded at market value.

     Our investment policy is determined by our Board of Directors and our
Investment and Finance Committee and is reviewed on a regular basis. We continue
to engage a nationally prominent investment advisor, New England Asset
Management, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., to oversee our investments
and to make recommendations to our Board's Investment and Finance Committee.
Although we generally intend to hold fixed income securities to maturity, we
regularly re-evaluate our position based upon market conditions. As of December
31, 2002, our fixed income securities had a weighted average maturity of 4.2
years and a weighted average duration of 3.5 years. Our financial statements
reflect an unrealized gain on fixed income securities available for sale as of
December 31, 2002, of $33.8 million.

     We have maintained a substantial level of cash and liquid short-term
instruments in our insurance companies in order to maintain the ability to fund
losses of our insureds. Our underwriting agencies and intermediaries typically
have short-term investments, which are fiduciary funds held on behalf of others.
As of December 31, 2002, we had cash and short-term investments of approximately
$347.5 million, of which $239.6 million were in our underwriting agencies and
intermediaries.

                                        23
<PAGE>

     This table shows a profile of our investments. The table shows the average
amount of investments, income earned, and the yield thereon for the periods
indicated (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         2002        2001       2000
                                                      ----------   --------   --------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>        <C>
Average investments, at cost........................  $1,005,541   $789,860   $643,721
Net investment income(1)............................      37,769     39,638     39,836
Average short-term yield(1).........................         2.2%       4.3%       6.6%
Average long-term yield(1)..........................         4.8%       5.6%       6.1%
Average long-term tax equivalent yield(1)...........         5.4%       6.4%       7.4%
Weighted average combined tax equivalent yield(1)...         4.6%       5.6%       7.1%
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Excluding realized and unrealized capital gains and losses.

     This table summarizes, by type, the estimated market value of our
investments as of December 31, 2002 (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                           PERCENT OF
                                                                AMOUNT       TOTAL
                                                              ----------   ----------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
Short-term investments......................................  $  307,215       26%
U.S. Treasury securities....................................      96,546        8
Obligations of states, municipalities and political
  subdivisions..............................................      49,230        4
Special revenue fixed income securities.....................     210,238       18
Corporate fixed income securities...........................     244,276       21
Asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities.................     149,873       13
Foreign government securities...............................      91,385        8
Marketable equity securities................................      15,609        2
Other investments...........................................       3,264       --
                                                              ----------      ---
          TOTAL INVESTMENTS.................................  $1,167,636      100%
                                                              ==========      ===
</Table>

     This table summarizes, by rating, the market value of our investments in
fixed income securities as of December 31, 2002 (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                         PERCENT OF
                                                               AMOUNT      TOTAL
                                                              --------   ----------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
AAA.........................................................  $469,841       56%
AA..........................................................   159,447       19
A...........................................................   179,726       21
BBB.........................................................    32,534        4
                                                              --------      ---
          TOTAL FIXED INCOME SECURITIES.....................  $841,548      100%
                                                              ========      ===
</Table>

                                        24
<PAGE>

     The table set forth below indicates the expected maturity distribution of
the estimated market value of our fixed income securities as of December 31,
2001 (dollars in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                         PERCENT OF
                                                               AMOUNT      TOTAL
                                                              --------   ----------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
One year or less............................................  $ 66,673        8%
One year to five years......................................   326,561       39
Five years to ten years.....................................   135,984       16
Ten years to fifteen years..................................    82,488       10
More than fifteen years.....................................    79,969        9
                                                              --------      ---
  Securities with fixed maturities..........................   691,675       82
Asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities.................   149,873       18
                                                              --------      ---
          TOTAL FIXED INCOME SECURITIES.....................  $841,548      100%
                                                              ========      ===
</Table>

     The weighted average life of our structured securities is five years. The
value of our portfolio of fixed income securities is inversely correlated to
changes in market interest rates. In addition, some of our fixed income
securities have call or prepayment options. This could subject us to a
reinvestment risk should interest rates fall or issuers call their securities
and we are forced to invest the proceeds at lower interest rates. We mitigate
this risk by investing in securities with varied maturity dates, so that only a
portion of the portfolio will mature at any point in time. Some of our
asset-backed securities are subject to re-evaluation and additional specialized
impairment tests. Under this guidance, these securities have to be written down
in value if certain tests are met. Any write down is recouped prospectively
through net investment income, if contractual cash flows are ultimately
received. The total amount of securities held by us as of December 31, 2002 that
would be subject to these tests and potential write downs is $9.4 million.

2% CONVERTIBLE NOTES AND BANK LOAN

     In a public offering on August 23, 2001, we issued an aggregate $172.5
million principal amount of 2% Convertible Notes due in 2021. Our debt
securities are rated A by Standard & Poor's (3rd of 10 ratings). Each $1
thousand principal amount of notes is convertible into 31.25 shares of our
common stock, which represents an initial conversion price of $32.00 per share.
The initial conversion price is subject to change under certain conditions.
Interest is to be paid by us on March 1 and September 1 each year. Holders may
surrender notes for conversion into shares of our common stock in any calendar
quarter if, as of the last day of the preceding calendar quarter, the closing
sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30
consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the quarter is more
than 120% ($38.40 per share) of the conversion price per share of our common
stock on the last trading day of the quarter. We can redeem the notes for cash
at any time on or after September 1, 2006. Holders of the notes may require us
to repurchase the notes on September 1, 2004, 2006, 2008, 2011 and 2016. If the
holders exercise this option, we may choose to pay the purchase price in cash,
in shares of our common stock, or a combination thereof. On September 1, 2002,
the first repurchase date of the notes, $49 thousand of the notes were tendered
to us and we repurchased them with cash. We used the proceeds from this offering
to repay our remaining indebtedness under our bank facility, assist in financing
the recent acquisitions, make a $60.0 million capital contribution to our
insurance companies and for general corporate purposes.

     On December 17, 1999, we entered into a $300.0 million Revolving Loan
Facility with a group of banks. At our request, the amount available under the
facility was reduced to $200.0 million by an amendment on June 6, 2001. We can
borrow up to the maximum allowed by the facility on a revolving basis until the
facility expires on December 17, 2004. The facility is collateralized in part by
the pledge of our insurance companies stock and guarantees entered into by our
underwriting agencies and intermediaries. The facility agreement contains
certain restrictive covenants, which we believe are typical for similar
financing arrangements. As of December 31, 2002, there was an outstanding
balance of $53.0 million on this facility bearing interest at an average
interest rate of 3.2%.

                                        25
<PAGE>

REGULATION

     The business of insurance is extensively regulated by the government. At
this time, the insurance business in the United States is regulated primarily by
the individual states. However, a form of federal financial services
modernization legislation enacted in 1999 is expected to result in additional
federal regulation of the insurance industry. In addition, some insurance
industry trade groups are actively lobbying for legislation that would allow an
option for a separate federal charter for insurance companies. The full extent
to which the federal government will determine to directly regulate the business
of insurance has not been determined by lawmakers. Also, various foreign
governments regulate our international operations.

     Our business depends on our compliance with applicable laws and regulations
and our ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for our operations. We
devote a significant effort toward obtaining and maintaining our licenses and
compliance with a diverse and complex regulatory structure. In all
jurisdictions, the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or
interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, regulatory authorities are
vested with broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals
and to implement regulations governing the business and operations of insurers
and insurance agents.

  INSURANCE COMPANIES

     Our insurance companies, in common with other insurers, are subject to
regulation and supervision by the states and by other jurisdictions in which
they do business. Regulation by the states varies, but generally involves
regulatory and supervisory powers of a state insurance official. The regulation
and supervision of our insurance operations relates primarily to:

     - approval of policy forms and premium rates;

     - licensing of insurers and their agents;

     - periodic examinations of our operations and finances;

     - prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition
       required to be filed;

     - requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders;

     - requiring certain methods of accounting;

     - requiring reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes;

     - restrictions on the ability of our insurance companies to pay dividends
       to us;

     - restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments;

     - restrictions on transactions between insurance companies and their
       affiliates;

     - restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; and

     - standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements (which
       is a measure developed by the National Association of Insurance
       Commissioners and used by state insurance regulators to identify
       insurance companies that potentially are inadequately capitalized.)

     In general, state insurance regulations are intended primarily for the
protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. The state insurance
departments monitor compliance with regulations through periodic reporting
procedures and examinations. The quarterly and annual financial reports to the
state insurance regulators utilize accounting principles which are different
from the generally accepted accounting principles we use in our reports to
shareholders. Statutory accounting principles, in keeping with the intent to
assure the protection of policyholders, are generally based on a liquidation
concept while generally accepted accounting principles are based on a
going-concern concept.

     Houston Casualty Company is domiciled in Texas. It operates on an admitted
basis in Texas and may write reinsurance on all lines of business that it may
write on a direct basis. Houston Casualty Company is an

                                        26
<PAGE>

accredited reinsurer in 39 states and an approved surplus lines insurer or is
otherwise permitted to write surplus lines insurance in 49 states, three United
States territories and the District of Columbia. When a reinsurer obtains
accreditation from a particular state, insurers within that state are permitted
to obtain statutory credit for risks ceded to the reinsurer. Surplus lines
insurance is offered by non-admitted companies on risks which are not insured by
admitted companies. All surplus lines insurance is required to be written
through licensed surplus lines insurance brokers, who are required to be
knowledgeable of and follow specific state laws prior to placing a risk with a
surplus lines insurer.

     Houston Casualty Company's branch office in London, England is subject to
regulation by regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom. Avemco Insurance
Company is domiciled in Maryland and operates as a licensed admitted insurer in
all states and the District of Columbia. U.S. Specialty Insurance Company is
domiciled in Texas and operates as a licensed admitted insurer in all states and
the District of Columbia. HCC Life Insurance Company is domiciled in Indiana,
and operates as a licensed admitted insurer in 41 states and the District of
Columbia. HCC Specialty Insurance Company is domiciled in Oklahoma and operates
on a surplus lines basis in Texas. HCC Europe is domiciled in Spain and operates
on the equivalent of an "admitted" basis throughout the European Union and
operates in selected other countries as permitted under local regulations.

     State insurance regulations also affect the payment of dividends and other
distributions by insurance companies to their shareholders. Generally, insurance
companies are limited by these regulations to the payment of dividends above a
specified level. Dividends in excess of those thresholds are "extraordinary
dividends" and subject to prior regulatory approval.

  UNDERWRITING AGENCIES AND INTERMEDIARIES

     In addition to the regulation of insurance companies, the states impose
licensing and other requirements on the insurance agency and service operations
of our other subsidiaries. These regulations relate primarily to:

     - advertising and business practice rules;

     - contractual requirements;

     - financial security;

     - licensing as agents, brokers, intermediaries, managing general agents or
       third party administrators;

     - limitations on authority; and

     - recordkeeping requirements.

     The manner of operating our underwriting agency and intermediary activities
in particular states may vary according to the licensing requirements of the
particular state, which may require, among other things, that we operate in the
state through a local corporation. In a few states, licenses are issued only to
individual residents or locally-owned business entities. In such cases, we may
have arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in the
state. The majority of states, however, have recently enacted legislation in
response to the Federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act that streamlines and makes more
uniform the licensing requirements.

  STATUTORY ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES

     The principal differences between statutory accounting principles and
generally accepted accounting principles, the method by which we report our
financial results to our shareholders are:

     - a liability is recorded for certain reinsurance recoverables under
       statutory accounting principles, whereas under generally accepted
       accounting principles there is no such provision unless the recoverables
       are deemed to be doubtful of collectibility;

     - under statutory accounting principles, life insurance companies record
       investment related liabilities, the asset valuation reserve and interest
       maintenance reserve, whereas there is not such liability under generally
       accepted accounting principles;

                                        27
<PAGE>

     - certain assets which are considered "non-admitted assets" are eliminated
       from a balance sheet prepared in accordance with statutory accounting
       principles but are included in a balance sheet prepared in accordance
       with generally accepted accounting principles;

     - only some of the deferred tax assets are recognized under statutory
       accounting principles;

     - fixed-income investments classified as available for sale are recorded at
       market value for generally accepted accounting principles and at
       amortized cost under statutory accounting principles;

     - outstanding losses and unearned premium are recorded on a gross basis
       under generally accepted accounting principles and on a net basis under
       statutory accounting principles; and

     - under statutory accounting principles, policy acquisition costs are
       expensed as incurred and under generally accepted accounting principles
       such costs are deferred and amortized to expense as the related premium
       is earned.

     The National Association of Insurance Commissioners adopted Statements of
Statutory Accounting Principles in March, 1998, which became effective on
January 1, 2001, through their adoption by the individual states. The cumulative
effect of codification increased the statutory policyholders' surplus of our
insurance companies by approximately $8.9 million. Our use of statutory
accounting practices prescribed by state regulatory authorities caused a $1.5
million increase in our insurance companies' aggregate statutory policyholders'
surplus as of December 31, 2002 compared to amounts that would have been
recorded under the codification rules of the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners. The statutory policyholders' surplus of each of our insurance
companies is significantly in excess of regulatory risk-based capital
requirements.

  INSURANCE HOLDING COMPANY ACTS

     Because we are an insurance holding company, we are subject to the
insurance holding company system regulatory requirements of the states of
Arkansas, Indiana, Maryland, Oklahoma and Texas. Under these regulations, we are
required to report information regarding our capital structure, financial
condition and management. We are also required to provide prior notice to, or
seek the prior approval of insurance regulatory authorities of certain
agreements and transactions between our affiliated companies. These agreements
and transactions must satisfy certain regulatory requirements.

  RISK-BASED CAPITAL

     The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has developed a formula
for analyzing insurance companies called risk-based capital. The risk-based
capital formula is intended to establish minimum capital thresholds that vary
with the size and mix of a company's business and assets. It is designed to
identify companies with capital levels that may require regulatory attention. As
of December 31, 2002, each of our domestic insurance companies' total adjusted
capital is significantly in excess of the authorized control level risk-based
capital.

  INSURANCE REGULATORY INFORMATION SYSTEM

     The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has also developed a
rating system, the Insurance Regulatory Information System, primarily intended
to assist state insurance departments in overseeing the financial condition of
all insurance companies operating within their respective states. The Insurance
Regulatory Information System consists of eleven key financial ratios that
address various aspects of each insurer's financial condition and stability. Our
insurance companies' Insurance Regulatory Information System ratios generally
fall within the usual prescribed ranges except in satisfactorily explainable
circumstances such as when there is a large reinsurance transaction, capital
change, merger or planned growth.

                                        28
<PAGE>

  TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE ACT

     In 2002, the Federal Terrorism Risk Insurance Act was enacted for the
purpose of ensuring the availability of insurance coverage for terrorist acts in
the United States. The law establishes a financial "backstop" program through
the end of 2005 to assist the commercial property and casualty insurance
industry in providing coverage related to future acts of terrorism within the
United States.

     Under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, we are required to offer
terrorism coverage to our commercial policyholders in certain lines of business
written in the United States, for which we may, when warranted, charge an
additional premium. The policyholders may or may not accept such coverage. This
law also established a deductible that each insurer would have to meet before
U.S. Federal reimbursement would occur. For 2003, our deductible is
approximately $11.2 million based on 7% of 2002 subject premium as defined under
the applicable regulations. Thereafter, the Federal government would provide
reimbursement for 90% of our insured, covered insured losses up to the maximum
amount set out in the Act.

  PENDING OR PROPOSED LEGISLATION

     In recent years, state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that
modify and, in many cases, increase state authority to regulate insurance
companies and insurance holding company systems. State insurance regulators are
members of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which seeks to
promote uniformity of, and to enhance the state regulation of, insurance. In
addition, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and state
insurance regulators, as part of the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners' state insurance department accreditation program and in response
to new federal laws, have re-examined existing state laws and regulations,
specifically focusing on insurance company investments, issues relating to the
solvency of insurance companies, licensing and market conduct issues,
streamlining agent licensing and policy form approvals, adoption of privacy
rules for handling policyholder information, interpretations of existing laws,
the development of new laws, and the definition of extraordinary dividends.

     In recent years, a variety of measures have been proposed at the federal
level to reform the current process of federal and state regulation of the
financial services industries in the United States, which include the banking,
insurance and securities industries. These measures, which are often referred to
as financial services modernization, have as a principal objective the
elimination or modification of current regulatory barriers to cross-industry
combinations involving banks, securities firms and insurance companies. A form
of financial services modernization legislation was enacted at the federal level
in 1999 through the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. That federal legislation was
expected to have significant implications on the banking, insurance and
securities industries and to result in more cross-industry consolidations among
banks, insurance companies and securities firms and increased competition in
many of the areas of our operations. Such wide-spread cross-industry
consolidation has not occurred to date. It also mandated the adoption of laws
allowing reciprocity among the states in the licensing of agents and, along with
other federal laws, mandated the adoption of laws and regulations dealing with
the protection of the privacy of policyholder information. Also, the federal
government has conducted investigations of the current condition of the
insurance industry in the United States to determine whether to impose overall
federal regulation of insurers. In the past several years there have been a
number of recommendations that the industry's anti-trust exemption be removed
and the industry placed under federal regulation. If so, we believe state
regulation of the insurance business would likely continue. This could result in
an additional layer of federal regulation.

     We do not know at this time the full extent to which these federal or state
legislative or regulatory initiatives will or may affect our operations, and no
assurance can be given that they would not, if adopted, have a material adverse
effect on our business or its results of operations.

EMPLOYEES

     As of December 31, 2002 we had 1,096 employees. The employees include six
executive officers, 24 senior management, 94 management and 972 other personnel.
Of this number, 353 are employed by our insurance companies, 501 are employed by
our underwriting agencies, 128 are employed by our intermediaries, and 114 are
employed at the corporate headquarters and elsewhere. We are not a party to any
collective
                                        29
<PAGE>

bargaining agreement and have not experienced work stoppages or strikes as a
result of labor disputes. We consider our employee relations to be good.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     Our principal and executive offices are located in Houston, Texas, in a
building owned by Houston Casualty Company. We also maintain offices in over 25
locations elsewhere in the United States, England and Spain. The majority of
these additional locations are in leased facilities.

     Our principal office facilities are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
SUBSIDIARY                                 LOCATION                SQ. FT.   LEASE TERMINATION DATE
- ----------                                 --------                -------   ----------------------
<S>                                        <C>                     <C>       <C>
HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Houston
  Casualty Company                         Houston, Texas          51,000          Owned
Houston Casualty Company                   Houston, Texas          77,000          Owned
Avemco Insurance Company                   Frederick, Maryland     40,000          Owned
U.S. Specialty Insurance Company Aviation
  Division                                 Dallas, Texas           40,000          Leased*
Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc.        Mount Kisco, New York   38,000          Owned
</Table>

- ---------------

* Lease termination date is March 31, 2004

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     In addition to the matters discussed in the Reinsurance Ceded section
contained in Item 1, Business, we are party to numerous lawsuits and other
proceedings that arise in the normal course of our business. Many of such
lawsuits and other proceedings involve claims under policies that we underwrite
as an insurer or reinsurer, the liabilities for which, we believe have been
adequately included in our loss reserves. Also, from time to time, we are a
party to lawsuits and other proceedings which relate to disputes over
contractual relationships with third parties, or which involve alleged errors
and omissions on the part of our subsidiaries. In addition, we are presently
engaged in litigation initiated by the appointed liquidator of a former
reinsurer concerning payments made to us prior to the date of the appointment of
the liquidator. The disputed payments were made by the now insolvent reinsurer
in connection with a commutation agreement. Our understanding is that such
litigation is one of a number of similar actions brought by the liquidator. We
intend to vigorously contest the action. We believe the resolution of any such
lawsuits will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

     We have received substantial assessments from a state health insurance
association, which was established by the state to provide health insurance to
"high-risk" or otherwise uninsured individuals within that state. The expenses
of the association are currently funded principally through assessments on
insurers. With the current assessment, the association changed the calculation
method for the amount of the assessment, which resulted in a significant
increase in the amount of our assessment ($5.2 million). We and other insurers
are presently contesting the change in the assessment methodology. We believe we
will receive relief from the current assessment and that any amount we may
ultimately have to pay will not be material to our financial position and
results of operations, after taking into consideration credits we would receive
against other taxes in the state.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the
fourth quarter of 2002.

                                        30
<PAGE>

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK

     Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker
symbol "HCC".

     The intra-day high and low sales prices for quarterly periods during the
period January 1, 2001 through December 31, 2002, as reported by the New York
Stock Exchange were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          2002              2001
                                                     ---------------   ---------------
                                                      HIGH     LOW      HIGH     LOW
                                                     ------   ------   ------   ------
<S>                                                  <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>
First quarter......................................  $28.95   $24.90   $26.88   $20.50
Second quarter.....................................   28.50    24.70    29.65    23.26
Third quarter......................................   26.60    19.11    26.67    21.21
Fourth quarter.....................................   25.70    22.37    29.20    25.15
</Table>

     On March 14, 2003, the last reported sales price of our common stock as
reported by the New York Stock Exchange was $25.25 per share.

SHAREHOLDERS

     We have one class of authorized capital stock: 250.0 million shares of
common stock, par value $1.00 per share. As of March 14, 2003, there were 62.7
million shares of issued and outstanding common stock held by 924 shareholders
of record; however, we believe there are in excess of 12,000 beneficial owners.

DIVIDEND POLICY

     Beginning in June, 1996, we announced a planned quarterly program of paying
cash dividends to shareholders. We paid a cash dividend of $0.02 per share in
July, 1996 and in each succeeding quarter through the first quarter of 1997. We
have increased the quarterly cash dividend in each year and beginning in
September, 2002, our quarterly dividend was $0.065 per share. Our Board of
Directors may review our dividend policy from time to time, and any
determination with respect to future dividends will be made in light of
regulatory and other conditions at that time, including our earnings, financial
condition, capital requirements, loan covenants, and other related factors.
Under the terms of our bank loan, we are prohibited from paying dividends in
excess of an agreed upon maximum amount in any fiscal year. That limitation
should not affect our ability to pay dividends in a manner consistent with our
past practice and current expectations.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The selected consolidated financial data set forth below has been derived
from the Consolidated Financial Statements. All information contained herein
should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements, the
related notes thereto and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Report.

                                        31
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                        FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)(1)
                                              ----------------------------------------------------
                                                2002       2001       2000       1999       1998
                                              --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
<S>                                           <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
STATEMENT OF EARNINGS DATA:
Revenue
  Net earned premium........................  $505,521   $342,787   $267,647   $141,362   $143,100
  Management fees...........................    77,082     61,795     96,058     90,713     74,045
  Commission income.........................    41,572     43,412     49,886     58,233     40,804
  Net investment income.....................    37,769     39,638     39,836     30,946     29,342
  Net realized investment gain (loss).......       453        393     (5,321)    (4,164)       845
  Other operating income....................     6,985     17,436     25,497     28,475     22,268
                                              --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
          Total revenue.....................   669,382    505,461    473,603    345,565    310,404

Expense
  Loss and loss adjustment expense, net.....   306,491    267,390    198,470    109,650     91,302
  Operating expense:
       Policy acquisition costs, net........    63,274     27,923     23,743      8,177     10,978
       Compensation expense.................    80,495     69,762     83,086     79,196     57,227
       Provision for reinsurance............        --         --         --     43,462         --
       Other operating expense..............    47,642     71,119     53,274     53,273     36,558
                                              --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
          Total operating expense...........   191,411    168,804    160,103    184,108    104,763
  Interest expense..........................     8,301      8,884     20,347     12,964      6,021
                                              --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
          Total expense.....................   506,203    445,078    378,920    306,722    202,086
                                              --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
          Earnings before income tax
            provision.......................   163,179     60,383     94,683     38,843    108,318
  Income tax provision......................    57,351     30,186     37,202     12,271     35,208
                                              --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
          Net earnings before accounting
            change..........................   105,828     30,197     57,481     26,572     73,110
Cumulative effect of accounting change(2)...        --         --     (2,013)        --         --
                                              --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
          Net earnings......................  $105,828   $ 30,197   $ 55,468   $ 26,572   $ 73,110
                                              ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE DATA:
     Earnings before accounting change......  $   1.70   $   0.52   $   1.13   $   0.53   $   1.49
     Cumulative effect of accounting
       change(2)............................        --         --      (0.04)        --         --
                                              --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
     Net earnings...........................  $   1.70   $   0.52   $   1.09   $   0.53   $   1.49
                                              ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
     Weighted average shares outstanding....    62,225     58,321     50,742     50,058     48,917
                                              ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE DATA:
     Earnings before accounting change......  $   1.68   $   0.51   $   1.11   $   0.52   $   1.46
     Cumulative effect of accounting
       change(2)............................        --         --      (0.04)        --         --
                                              --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
     Net earnings...........................  $   1.68   $   0.51   $   1.07   $   0.52   $   1.46
                                              ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
     Weighted average shares outstanding....    62,936     59,619     51,619     50,646     49,933
                                              ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
Cash dividends declared, per share..........  $  0.255   $  0.245   $   0.22   $   0.20   $   0.16
                                              ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
Amounts adjusted for the non-amortization of
  goodwill(3):
     Adjusted net earnings..................  $105,828   $ 41,584   $ 67,302   $ 31,980   $ 74,856
                                              ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
     Adjusted basic earnings per share......  $   1.70   $   0.71   $   1.33   $   0.64   $   1.53
                                              ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
     Adjusted diluted earnings per share....  $   1.68   $   0.70   $   1.30   $   0.63   $   1.50
                                              ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
</Table>

                                        32
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            DECEMBER 31,
                                               (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
                                   --------------------------------------------------------------
                                      2002         2001         2000         1999         1998
                                   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
BALANCE SHEET DATA:
Total investments................  $1,167,636   $  885,659   $  711,113   $  581,322   $  525,646
Premium, claims and other
  receivables....................     753,527      665,965      609,716      636,671      382,885
Reinsurance recoverables.........     798,934      899,128      789,412      736,485      372,672
Ceded unearned premium...........     164,224       71,140      114,469      133,657      149,568
Goodwill and intangible assets...     350,086      328,815      266,015      263,687       88,043
Total assets.....................   3,704,151    3,219,120    2,790,755    2,679,737    1,709,643
Loss and loss adjustment expense
  payable........................   1,155,290    1,130,748      944,117      871,104      460,511
Unearned premium.................     331,050      179,530      190,550      188,524      201,050
Notes payable....................     230,027      181,928      212,133      242,546      121,600
Shareholders' equity.............     882,907      763,453      530,930      458,439      440,430
Book value per share(4)..........       14.15        12.40        10.29         9.12         8.94
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Certain amounts in the 2001, 2000, 1999, and 1998 selected consolidated
    financial data have been reclassified to conform to the 2002 presentation.
    Such reclassifications had no effect on our net earnings, shareholders'
    equity, or cash flows.

(2) During 2000, we changed certain of our revenue recognition methods for our
    underwriting agencies and intermediaries to agree to guidance contained in
    Securities and Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin Number 101
    entitled "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements". See Note (1) in the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(3) During 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS")
    No. 142 entitled "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets", which required that
    goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets no longer be amortized. The
    adjusted amounts presented are amounts that we would have reported had we
    adopted SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 1998.

(4) Book value per share is calculated by dividing the sum of outstanding shares
    plus contractually issuable shares into total shareholders' equity.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

     We primarily receive our revenue from earned premium derived from our
insurance company operations, management fees generated by our underwriting
agency operations, commission income produced by our intermediary operations,
investment income from all of our operations and other operating income. Our
core underwriting activities involve providing group life, accident and health,
aviation, London market account, global financial products and other specialty
lines of business, each of which is marketed by our insurance companies and our
underwriting agencies either directly to customers or through a network of
independent or affiliated agents and brokers.

     During the past several years, we have substantially increased our
shareholders' equity through issuing equity securities and through retaining our
earnings, thereby enabling us to increase the underwriting capacity of our
insurance companies. With this additional equity, we increased underwriting
activity across many of our lines of business, emphasizing lines of business and
individual opportunities with the most favorable underwriting characteristics at
a particular point in the insurance cycle. As an insurer, we also purchase
reinsurance for each of our lines of business. We purchase different types of
reinsurance in amounts we consider appropriate for each of our lines of business
based upon market conditions and the level of risk we wish to retain.

                                        33
<PAGE>

     Market conditions improved during 2000, 2001 and 2002 across all of our
lines of business. This improvement accelerated after the September 11, 2001
terrorist attack and highly publicized corporate governance failures and
continued throughout 2002 with significant rate increases particularly evident
in our global financial products line of business. We plan to continue to expand
our underwriting activities, in response to these hardening market conditions.

     During 2001 and 2002 we acquired the following companies in transactions
that were recorded using the purchase method of accounting. Accordingly, the
results of operations and cash flows of these companies are included in our
underwriting results beginning on the effective date of each transaction.

<Table>
<Caption>
COMPANY                                             SEGMENT         EFFECTIVE DATE ACQUIRED
- -------                                       -------------------   -----------------------
<S>                                           <C>                   <C>
Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc.           Underwriting Agency   October 22, 2001
ASU International, LLC                        Underwriting Agency   October 30, 2001
HCC Global Financial Products LLC
  (formerly MAG Global Financial Products)    Underwriting Agency   October 1, 2002
Dickson Manchester & Company Limited          Underwriting Agency   December 24, 2002
HCC Europe, (formerly St. Paul Espana)        Insurance Company     December 31, 2002
</Table>

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following table sets forth certain premium revenue information for the
three years ended December 31, 2002 (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                      2002         2001        2000
                                                   ----------   ----------   ---------
<S>                                                <C>          <C>          <C>
Direct...........................................  $  904,737   $  783,124   $ 676,730
Reinsurance assumed..............................     254,512      226,951     290,727
                                                   ----------   ----------   ---------
  Gross written premium..........................   1,159,249    1,010,075     967,457
Reinsurance ceded................................    (613,338)    (637,117)   (683,669)
                                                   ----------   ----------   ---------
  Net written premium............................     545,911      372,958     283,788
Change in unearned premium.......................     (40,390)     (30,171)    (16,141)
                                                   ----------   ----------   ---------
  Net earned premium.............................  $  505,521   $  342,787   $ 267,647
                                                   ==========   ==========   =========
</Table>

     The following table sets forth the relationships of certain income
statement items as a percent of total revenue for the three years ended December
31, 2002:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              2002    2001    2000
                                                              -----   -----   -----
<S>                                                           <C>     <C>     <C>
Net earned premium..........................................   75.5%   67.8%   56.5%
Management fees.............................................   11.5    12.2    20.3
Commission income...........................................    6.2     8.6    10.5
Net investment income.......................................    5.7     7.8     8.4
Net realized investment gain (loss).........................    0.1     0.1    (1.1)
Other operating income......................................    1.0     3.5     5.4
                                                              -----   -----   -----
  Total revenue.............................................  100.0   100.0   100.0
Loss and loss adjustment expense, net.......................   45.8    52.9    41.9
Net operating expense.......................................   28.6    33.4    33.8
Interest expense............................................    1.2     1.7     4.3
                                                              -----   -----   -----
  Earnings before income tax provision......................   24.4    12.0    20.0
Income tax provision........................................    8.6     6.0     7.9
                                                              -----   -----   -----
  Net earnings before accounting change.....................   15.8%    6.0%   12.1%
                                                              =====   =====   =====
</Table>

                                        34
<PAGE>

 Year Ended December 31, 2002 Versus Year Ended December 31, 2001

     Total revenue increased 32% to $669.4 million for 2002 from $505.5 million
in 2001. The revenue increase in the insurance company segment resulted from
organic growth in our existing lines of business, the addition of our new global
financial products line of business, and increased premium retention. The
revenue in the underwriting agency segment increased due to organic growth and
acquisitions made in 2002 and late 2001, but the increase was partially offset
by reduced revenue in the intermediary and other operations segments as a result
of market conditions and the sale or other disposition of various operations in
2001.

     Net investment income decreased to $37.8 million for 2002 from $39.6
million in 2001. This decrease was due to the reduction in interest rates,
substantially offset by the higher level of invested assets which resulted from
cash flow provided by operating activities and capital contributions made to our
insurance company subsidiaries. We expect investment assets to continue to
increase which, even without an increase in market interest rates, should
produce a growth in investment income in 2003.

     The year 2001 was adversely affected as we experienced the largest loss to
our insurance company operations in our history due to the terrorist attack on
September 11, with incurred net losses of $35.0 million. In 2001, we also
recorded a charge totaling $37.3 million related to our primary workers'
compensation line of business and other lines of business that we decided to
cease writing. Included in this charge was $15.0 million related to the
impairment of goodwill associated with our primary workers' compensation line of
business.

     Compensation expense increased to $80.5 million during 2002 from $69.8
million in 2001. Much of this increase was due to the underwriting agency
subsidiaries acquired in 2002 and late 2001, somewhat offset by a decrease from
operations sold or otherwise disposed of during late 2001 and efficiencies
gained from the consolidation of certain of our underwriting agencies into our
insurance company operations.

     Other operating expense decreased to $47.6 million during 2002 compared to
$71.1 million in 2001, primarily as a result of the reduction in the
amortization of goodwill, operations sold or disposed of, somewhat offset by the
effect of acquisitions in 2002 and late 2001, and the goodwill impairment charge
in 2001. Currency conversion gains amount to $1.2 million in 2002 compared to
$0.3 million in 2001.

     Interest expense was $8.3 million for 2002 compared to $8.9 million in
2001. Included in 2002 is $2.9 million representing the amortization of
underwriting discounts and other costs of our August 2001 issuance of 2%
convertible notes, compared to $1.5 million of similar amortization in 2001.
These costs were fully amortized at the end of August 2002.

     Income tax expense was $57.4 million for 2002 compared to $30.2 million in
2001. Our effective tax rate was 35.1% in 2002. The unusually high tax rate for
2001 results from the write off related to the impairment of goodwill, which was
not deductible for income tax purposes.

     Net earnings increased to $105.8 million, or $1.68 per diluted share, for
2002 from $30.2 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, in 2001. The increase in
net earnings resulted from increased revenue and an improved underwriting
performance by the insurance company segment, net of a charge in 2002 related to
a discontinued line of business ($5.0 million or $0.08 per share). Other events
affecting the comparison include losses from the September 11 terrorist attack
recorded during 2001 ($22.8 million or $0.38 per share), the charge for lines of
business we decided to cease writing during 2001 ($29.6 million or $0.50 per
share) and the amortization of goodwill in 2001, ($11.4 million or $0.19 per
share) prior to our adoption of SFAS No. 142.

     Our book value per share was $14.15 as of December 31, 2002, up from $12.40
as of December 31, 2001. Net earnings and the unrealized gain on available for
sale securities contributed to the increase in book value per share.

                                        35
<PAGE>

SEGMENTS

  INSURANCE COMPANIES

     The following tables provide information by line of business (in
thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                GROSS        NET        NET       NET
                                               WRITTEN     WRITTEN     EARNED    LOSS
                                               PREMIUM     PREMIUM    PREMIUM    RATIO
                                              ----------   --------   --------   -----
<S>                                           <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>
For the year ended December 31, 2002:
Group life, accident and health.............  $  503,263   $244,554   $240,070    62.2%
Aviation....................................     212,518     99,826    100,960    46.3
London market account.......................     199,816    113,925     89,260    51.5
Global financial products...................     178,653     43,731     23,102    46.4
Other specialty lines.......................      32,563     25,621     22,337   101.1
                                              ----------   --------   --------   -----
                                               1,126,813    527,657    475,729    57.8
Discontinued lines..........................      32,436     18,254     29,792   105.0
                                              ----------   --------   --------   -----
TOTALS......................................  $1,159,249   $545,911   $505,521    60.6%
                                              ==========   ========   ========
Expense ratio...............................                                      25.4
                                                                                 -----
Combined ratio..............................                                      86.0%
                                                                                 =====
For the year ended December 31, 2001:
Group life, accident and health.............  $  502,086   $146,220   $143,851    67.5%
Aviation....................................     198,015     98,249     91,377    62.5
London market account.......................     133,579     54,056     43,360    59.4
Global financial products...................          46         44          4    25.0
Other specialty lines.......................      15,556     14,346     15,120    73.5
                                              ----------   --------   --------   -----
                                                 849,282    312,915    293,712    65.1
Discontinued lines..........................     160,793     60,043     49,075   155.5
                                              ----------   --------   --------   -----
TOTALS......................................  $1,010,075   $372,958   $342,787    78.0%
                                              ==========   ========   ========
Expense ratio...............................                                      25.7
                                                                                 -----
Combined ratio..............................                                     103.7%
                                                                                 =====
</Table>

     Gross written premium increased 15% to $1.2 billion for 2002 from $1.0
billion in 2001. This increase was 33% before the discontinued lines of
business. The increase resulted from organic growth and premium rate increases
in our London market account line of business, plus our global financial
products line of business not previously written, offset by the decrease in
discontinued lines of business. Gross written premium is expected to continue to
increase in 2003.

     Net written premium for 2002 increased 46% to $545.9 million from $373.0
million in 2001, as our insurance companies have increased their overall
retentions, in addition to the effect of the changes in gross premium described
above. Net earned premium also increased 47% to $505.5 million for the same
reasons. Increases in net written and net earned premiums were 69% and 62%,
respectively, before the discontinued lines of business. Increases in net
written and net earned premium are expected to continue in 2003.

     Net loss and loss adjustment expense was $306.5 million for 2002 compared
to $267.4 million in 2001. The 2001 net loss expense included $35.0 million from
the September 11 terrorist attack and $18.8 million from the charge for lines of
business we decided to cease writing. Because of these items and generally
better underwriting results in 2002 as a result of higher pricing and improved
policy terms and conditions, the net loss ratio was greatly improved at 60.6%
for 2002 compared to 78.0% in 2001, on substantially increased earned premiums.
The loss ratios for the continuing lines, with the exception of the specialty
lines, also improved for

                                        36
<PAGE>

these reasons. The loss ratio in the other specialty lines increased as a result
of some adverse development on policies, which were subsequently not renewed.
During the third quarter of 2002, we also recorded a charge in the amount of
$7.7 million related to certain business included in discontinued lines. This
business was acquired as part of our purchase of The Centris Group, Inc. in 1999
and was of a type that we have not historically written. The gross loss ratio
was 58.6% in 2002 compared to 105.5% in 2001. The 2001 gross loss ratio was high
because we recorded gross losses of $55.0 million due to the Petrobras
production platform, $141.0 million due to the September 11 terrorist attack and
$49.0 million due to the Total Oil Company loss. Additionally, in 2002, as a
result of further evaluation, we reduced our gross losses from the September 11
terrorist attack by $21.5 million and reduced the gross losses from the Total
loss by $14.0 million. Offsetting this positive gross development was $36.2
million of negative development due to late reporting of an aggregate program
that we no longer write. As the adjustments related to gross losses that were
substantially reinsured, there was no material net effect.

     During 2002, we had net loss and loss adjustment expense redundancy of $6.8
million relating to prior year losses compared to a redundancy of $10.7 million
in 2001 and we had gross loss and loss adjustment expense redundancy of $23.2
million compared to a deficiency of $44.5 million in 2001. The gross deficiency
for 2001 resulted from late reported loss information received during 2001,
primarily from assumed reinsurance business written by one of our insurance
companies. There was no material net effect on our earnings as that business was
substantially reinsured. The deficiencies and redundancies result from our
continued review of our loss reserves with our actuaries and the increase or
reduction of reserves as losses are finally settled and claims exposures are
reduced. We continue to believe we have provided for all material net incurred
losses.

     The tables below show the composition of net and gross incurred loss and
loss adjustment expense (amounts in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                 NET INCURRED LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE
                                                 ---------------------------------------------
                                                         2002                    2001
                                                 ---------------------   ---------------------
                                                  AMOUNT    LOSS RATIO    AMOUNT    LOSS RATIO
                                                 --------   ----------   --------   ----------
<S>                                              <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>
September 11 terrorist attack..................  $     --        --%     $ 35,000      10.2%
2001 charge for lines of business we ceased
  writing......................................        --        --        18,799       5.5
2002 third quarter charge......................     7,674       1.5            --        --
Other prior year development...................   (14,453)     (2.9)      (11,963)     (3.5)
All other incurred loss and loss adjustment
  expense......................................   313,270      62.0       225,554      65.8
                                                 --------      ----      --------      ----
Net incurred loss and loss adjustment
  expense......................................  $306,491      60.6%     $267,390      78.0%
                                                 ========      ====      ========      ====
</Table>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                               GROSS INCURRED LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE
                                               -----------------------------------------------
                                                       2002                     2001
                                               ---------------------   -----------------------
                                                AMOUNT    LOSS RATIO     AMOUNT     LOSS RATIO
                                               --------   ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                            <C>        <C>          <C>          <C>
September 11 terrorist attack................  $(21,500)     (2.1)%    $  140,962      14.0%
Petrobras production platform................        --        --          55,000       5.4
Total Oil Company loss.......................   (14,000)     (1.4)         49,000       4.9
2001 charge for lines of business we ceased
  writing....................................        --        --          36,784       3.6
2002 third quarter charge....................     7,674       0.8              --        --
Aggregate program development................    36,170       3.5              --        --
Other prior year development.................   (31,504)     (3.1)         40,367       4.0
All other incurred loss and loss adjustment
  expense....................................   627,412      60.9         741,732      73.6%
                                               --------      ----      ----------     -----
Gross incurred loss and loss adjustment
  expense....................................  $604,252      58.6%     $1,063,845     105.5%
                                               ========      ====      ==========     =====
</Table>

     Policy acquisition costs, which are net of commissions on reinsurance
ceded, increased to $63.3 million during 2002, from $27.9 million in 2001. This
increase is due to the higher earned premium and the reduction

                                        37
<PAGE>

in ceding commissions as a result of our retaining more business. Included in
the 2001 amount is $2.2 million from the charge for lines of business we decided
to cease writing. The expense ratio was substantially unchanged at 25.4% for
2002 compared to 2001 which, when added to our greatly improved loss ratio,
produced a substantially lower combined ratio of 86.0% for 2002 compared to
103.7% in 2001.

     Net earnings of our insurance companies increased to $68.2 million in 2002
from a net loss of $2.9 million in 2001, due to increased revenue and improved
underwriting results in 2002. The 2001 results include the effects from the
terrorist attack on September 11 and the charge for lines of business we decided
to cease writing. There was $2.1 million (net of income tax) of goodwill
amortization recorded in 2001. Barring future catastrophic events, we expect
this trend to continue into 2003.

  UNDERWRITING AGENCIES

     Management fees increased 25% to $77.1 million for 2002, compared to $61.8
million in 2001. The underwriting agencies acquired in 2002 and late 2001
accounted for much of the increase together with organic growth, partially
offset by a decrease in management fees from our other underwriting agencies as
we continued the consolidation of certain other underwriting agency operations
into our insurance companies. Net earnings of our underwriting agencies
increased to $25.3 million for 2002 from $17.2 million in 2001 as a result of
increased revenue and the adoption of SFAS No. 142, somewhat offset by the
integration of certain underwriting agencies into our insurance companies. There
was $5.9 million (net of income tax) of goodwill amortization recorded in 2001.
We expect further improvement in 2003 due to our acquisitions in late 2002 and
organic growth.

  INTERMEDIARIES

     Commission income decreased to $41.6 million for 2002, compared to $43.4
million in 2001 due to general market conditions and less ceded reinsurance
being placed on behalf of our insurance companies as they increased their
retentions. Net earnings of our intermediaries decreased to $7.6 million for
2002 compared to $8.7 million in 2001. There was $3.4 million (net of income
tax) of goodwill amortization recorded in 2001 compared to none in 2002 due to
the adoption of SFAS No. 142. We anticipate returning to growth in commission
income in 2003 as our non-affiliated business grows.

  OTHER OPERATIONS

     The decrease in other operating income to $7.0 million during 2002 from
$17.4 million in 2001 was principally due to the disposition or closure of
certain operations during 2001 and the resultant gains totaling $8.2 million
from certain of those dispositions. Net earnings of other operations decreased
to $3.1 million in 2002 from $7.1 million in 2001 for the same reasons. Period
to period comparisons may vary substantially depending on other operating
investments or dispositions thereof in any given period. We anticipate new
strategic investments and possibly a service company acquisition in 2003, which
would provide growth in this revenue.

  CORPORATE

     The net income of the corporate segment was $2.9 million for 2002 compared
to a net loss of $1.0 million in 2001. This improvement resulted from lower
interest expense due primarily to lower interest rates.

 Year Ended December 31, 2001 Versus Year Ended December 31, 2000

     Total revenue increased 7% to $505.5 million for 2001 compared to 2000. The
increase in the insurance company segment revenue resulting from increased
business, greater retention levels and higher investment income was offset
primarily by a reduction in the underwriting agency segment revenue as we
consolidated the operations of three of our underwriting agencies into the
operations of our insurance companies on January 1, 2001.

                                        38
<PAGE>

     Net investment income was $39.6 million for 2001 compared to $39.8 million
in 2000. The positive effect on investment income of our higher level of
invested assets was offset by a significant decrease in interest rates in 2001.
During 2001, we recorded a net realized investment gain of $0.4 million,
compared to a loss of $5.3 million in 2000. During 2001 we recognized a $2.4
million realized loss from the write down of five investments to their estimated
fair market value compared to a similar write down of $5.1 million from one
equity investment during 2000. The loss from write downs during 2001 was offset
by other gains recorded on investments sold.

     During 2001, we experienced three significant gross losses. The largest
loss was as a result of the terrorist attack on September 11, which produced the
biggest loss to our insurance company operations in our history. Although we had
no involvement in the insurance coverages of the airlines involved, we had
significant exposure in our accident and health reinsurance account. Our
estimates of ultimate exposure were developed through a review of policy
coverages, consideration of the effect on the estimate if the attack was
considered multiple events rather than a single event, and communications from
our clients and producers. We also had participations in property coverage on
the World Trade Center and some of the surrounding buildings. In addition, we
anticipate some claims from other business written in the New York City area. We
also received some reported claims and estimates of losses for others. We
utilized this information together with known coverage and reinstatement premium
information to establish our gross and net losses reserve of $141.0 million and
$35.0 million, respectively. A charge for the net amount has been included in
our 2001 consolidated financial statements. The other two losses were the
Petrobras (Brazilian offshore energy production platform) and Total (chemical
factory near Toulouse, France) incidents, which produced gross losses of $55.0
million and $49.0 million, respectively. Because these policies were
substantially reinsured, the net losses were not material to our results of
operations.

     During 2001, we recorded a charge totaling $37.3 million related to lines
of business that we decided to cease writing, mainly our primary workers'
compensation line of business. The composition of this charge is $18.8 million
for loss and loss adjustment expense, $2.2 million for net policy acquisition
costs and $16.3 million for other operating expense. Included in other operating
expense is $15.0 million related to the impairment of goodwill associated with
our primary workers' compensation line of business. The fair value of this line
of business was calculated based upon the present value of future expected cash
flows.

     Compensation expense decreased to $69.8 million for 2001 from $83.1 million
in 2000. The decrease is due principally to the disposition of non-core
subsidiaries, the subsequent closing or reduction of some operations of an
acquired company and efficiencies gained from the consolidation of some of our
underwriting agency operations with those of our insurance companies.

     Other operating expense for 2001 included $16.3 million from charges
related to lines of business that we decided to cease writing. Excluding these
charges, other operating expense in 2001 was somewhat reduced for the same
reasons as compensation expense, but to a much lesser extent, and the decrease
was offset by a general increase in expenses in our operating subsidiaries as
business grew. In addition, guarantee fund and other assessments increased $3.5
million in 2001 compared to 2000. Other operating expenses for 2000 also
included a credit of $0.8 million reflecting the reversal of some restructuring
charges recorded during the previous year, whereas during 2001 we recorded $0.2
million in merger expense resulting from an acquisition. Currency conversion
gains amounted to $0.3 million in 2001 compared to losses of $0.3 million in
2000.

     Interest expense was $8.9 million for 2001 down from $20.3 million in 2000.
This decrease resulted from our use of the proceeds from our March, 2001 public
offering of common stock and part of our August, 2001 offering of 2% convertible
notes to pay off our debt under the bank facility, lower interest rates and the
low interest rate on our newly issued convertible notes.

     Income tax expense on earnings before the change in accounting was $30.2
million for 2001 down from $37.2 million for 2000 primarily due to the reduction
in pre-tax income. The unusual effective tax rate for 2001 of 50% , compared to
39% for 2000, primarily results from the charge for the impairment of goodwill,
which was not deductible for income tax purposes.

                                        39
<PAGE>

     Net earnings before the change in accounting was $30.2 million, or $0.51
per diluted share, for 2001 compared to $57.5 million, or $1.11 per diluted
share, in 2000 before the cumulative effect of an accounting change. This
decrease primarily results from the after tax loss from the September 11
terrorist attack of $22.8 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, and the after tax
charge for lines of business we decided to cease writing of $29.6 million, or
$0.50 per diluted share.

     Our book value per share was $12.40 as of December 31, 2001, up
substantially from $10.29 as of December 31, 2000.

SEGMENTS

  INSURANCE COMPANIES

     The following tables provide information by line of business (in
thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                GROSS        NET        NET       NET
                                               WRITTEN     WRITTEN     EARNED    LOSS
                                               PREMIUM     PREMIUM    PREMIUM    RATIO
                                              ----------   --------   --------   -----
<S>                                           <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>
For the year ended December 31, 2001:
Group life, accident and health.............  $  502,086   $146,220   $143,851    67.5%
Aviation....................................     198,015     98,249     91,377    62.5
London market account.......................     133,579     54,056     43,360    59.4
Global financial products...................          46         44          4    25.0
Other specialty lines.......................      15,556     14,346     15,120    73.5
                                              ----------   --------   --------   -----
                                                 849,282    312,915    293,712    65.1
Discontinued lines..........................     160,793     60,043     49,075   155.5
                                              ----------   --------   --------   -----
  TOTALS....................................  $1,010,075   $372,958   $342,787    78.0%
                                              ==========   ========   ========
Expense ratio...............................                                      25.7
                                                                                 -----
Combined ratio..............................                                     103.7%
                                                                                 =====
For the year ended December 31, 2000:
Group life, accident and health.............  $  422,384   $109,005   $109,077    74.4%
Aviation....................................     191,089     79,794     73,695    70.2
London market account.......................      83,521     22,292     16,234    74.1
Global financial products...................          --         --         --      --
Other specialty lines.......................      15,906     14,552     14,552    40.9
                                              ----------   --------   --------   -----
                                                 712,900    225,643    213,558    70.6
Discontinued lines..........................     254,557     58,145     54,089    88.0
                                              ----------   --------   --------   -----
  TOTALS....................................  $  967,457   $283,788   $267,647    74.2%
                                              ==========   ========   ========
Expense ratio...............................                                      21.0
                                                                                 -----
Combined ratio..............................                                      95.2%
                                                                                 =====
</Table>

     Gross written premium increased to $1.0 billion for 2001 from $967.5
million in 2000 with strong growth in the group life, accident and health and
London market account lines of business, as rates continued to rise. Gross
written premium growth was not our focus in 2001, as we were able to grow our
revenue simply by retaining more of the business. Net written premium for 2001
increased 31% to $373.0 million compared to the previous year, as our insurance
companies increased retentions on many of their lines of business as
underwriting profitability improved. Net earned premium increased 28% to $342.8
million for the same reason. Increases in net written premium and net earned
premium were 39% and 38%, respectively, before the discontinued lines of
business.

                                        40
<PAGE>

     Loss and loss adjustment expense increased to $267.4 million for 2001
compared to $198.5 million in 2000 substantially due to losses and expenses
arising from the September 11 loss and the charge related to lines of business
we decided to cease writing. The net loss ratio was 78.0% for 2001 compared to
74.2% in 2000. The group life, accident and health, aviation and London market
account loss ratios improved, in spite of losses sustained from the September
11, 2001 terrorist attack, due generally to rate increases and better terms and
conditions. The other specialty lines loss ratio increased between years as a
result of adverse development on policies, which were subsequently not renewed.
The discontinued lines loss ratio increased as a result of the charge related to
lines of business we decided to cease writing and the September 11, 2001 loss.
The gross loss ratio was 105.5% in 2001 compared to 79.4% for 2000. The
Petrobras and Total claims were substantially reinsured and did not have a
material effect on our net loss ratio or net earnings. The combined ratio was
103.7% in 2001 compared to 95.2% for 2000. The expense ratio increased in 2001
to 25.7% from 21.0% in 2000 principally as a result of reduced ceding
commissions as we retained more profitable business.

     During 2001, we had net loss and loss adjustment expense redundancy of
$10.7 million relating to prior year losses compared to a redundancy of $9.6
million in 2000 and we had gross loss and loss adjustment expense deficiency of
$44.5 million compared to a redundancy of $1.9 million in 2000. The gross
deficiency for 2001 resulted from late reported loss information received during
2001. These losses primarily came from assumed reinsurance business written by
one of our insurance companies. The other deficiencies and redundancies result
from our continued review of our loss reserves with our actuaries and the
increase or reduction of the loss reserves as losses are finally settled and
claims exposures are reduced.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                 NET INCURRED LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE
                                                 ---------------------------------------------
                                                         2001                    2000
                                                 ---------------------   ---------------------
                                                  AMOUNT    LOSS RATIO    AMOUNT    LOSS RATIO
                                                 --------   ----------   --------   ----------
<S>                                              <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>
September 11 terrorist attack..................  $ 35,000      10.2%     $     --        --%
2001 charge for lines of business we ceased
  writing......................................    18,799       5.5            --        --
Other prior year development...................   (11,963)     (3.5)       (9,585)     (3.6)
All other incurred loss and loss adjustment
  expense......................................   225,554      65.8       208,055      77.8
                                                 --------      ----      --------      ----
Net incurred loss and loss adjustment
  expense......................................  $267,390      78.0%     $198,470      74.2%
                                                 ========      ====      ========      ====
</Table>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                               GROSS INCURRED LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE
                                               -----------------------------------------------
                                                        2001                     2000
                                               -----------------------   ---------------------
                                                 AMOUNT     LOSS RATIO    AMOUNT    LOSS RATIO
                                               ----------   ----------   --------   ----------
<S>                                            <C>          <C>          <C>        <C>
September 11 terrorist attack................  $  140,962      14.0%     $     --        --%
Petrobras production platform................      55,000       5.4            --        --
Total Oil Company loss.......................      49,000       4.9            --        --
2001 charge for lines of business we ceased
  writing....................................      36,784       3.6            --        --
Other prior year development.................      40,367       4.0        (1,892)     (0.2)
All other incurred loss and loss adjustment
  expense....................................     741,732      73.6       775,538      79.6
                                               ----------     -----      --------      ----
Gross incurred loss and loss adjustment
  expense....................................  $1,063,845     105.5%     $773,646      79.4%
                                               ==========     =====      ========      ====
</Table>

     Policy acquisition costs, which are net of ceding commissions on
reinsurance ceded, increased somewhat to $27.9 million during 2001 compared to
2000. During 2001, our insurance companies charged higher policy issuance fees
on certain lines of business which are recorded as a reduction in acquisition
costs. This reduction in costs is offset by the increase in policy acquisition
costs resulting from higher earned premium and part of the charge from lines of
business we decided to cease writing.

     The net loss of our insurance companies was $2.9 million in 2001 compared
to net income of $24.2 million for 2000. The 2001 results include after tax
losses from the September 11 terrorist attack of $22.8 million and the charge
for lines of business we decided to cease writing of $29.4 million.

                                        41
<PAGE>

  UNDERWRITING AGENCIES

     Management fees decreased to $61.8 million for 2001 compared to $96.1
million in 2000. Much of the decrease is the result of our consolidation of the
operations of three of our underwriting agencies into the operations of our
insurance companies effective January 1, 2001. Additional decreases are due to
lines of business either sold or exited and increased retentions of our
insurance companies. Net earnings of our underwriting agencies decreased to
$17.2 million for 2001 from $21.4 million in 2000 for the same reasons.

  INTERMEDIARIES

     Commission income was $43.4 million for 2001 compared to $49.9 million in
2000. Commission income decreased due to general market conditions and less
ceded reinsurance being placed on behalf of our insurance companies as they
increased their retentions. Net earnings of our intermediaries decreased to $8.7
million for 2001 compared to $11.2 million in 2000. The decrease in net earnings
was partly caused by our acquisition of The Schanen Consulting Group, LLC which
was not subject to income taxes during 2000 prior to our ownership, but
reflected in our historical results due to pooling-of-interest accounting, and
less commission income as a result of the mix of business, which had a lower
gross margin during the current year

  OTHER OPERATIONS

     The decrease in other operating revenue to $17.4 million for 2001 from
$25.5 million in 2000 results principally from the disposition or closure of
certain non-core operations. During 2001, we recorded gains of $8.2 million from
the sale of other operating investments compared to $5.7 million for 2000. The
increase in gains was somewhat offset by loss of revenue included in the 2000
period related to operations that have since been closed or disposed of. Net
earnings of other operations were $7.1 million in 2001 up from $6.0 million in
2000 for the same reasons. Period to period comparisons may vary substantially
depending on other operating investments, or dispositions of such investments,
in any given period.

  CORPORATE

     The net loss of the corporate segment was $1.0 million for 2001 compared to
a net loss of $4.7 million in 2000. This improvement resulted from the reduction
of interest expense as we paid off our debt under the bank facility by using the
proceeds from the March, 2001 public offering of common stock and the August,
2001 offering of 2% convertible notes, lower bank interest rates and the low
interest rate on our newly issued 2% convertible notes. Also included in the
amounts for 2000 were the costs of the closing of some operations of an acquired
company.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     We receive substantial cash from premiums, reinsurance recoverables, and
management fee and commission income and, to a lesser extent, investment income,
and proceeds from sales and redemptions of investments and other assets. Our
principal cash outflows are for the payment of claims and loss adjustment
expenses, payment of premiums to reinsurers, purchase of investments, debt
service, and payment of policy acquisition costs, operating expenses, income and
other taxes and dividends. Variations in operating cash flows can occur due to
timing differences in either the payment of claims and the collection of related
recoverables or the collection of receivables and the payment of related payable
amounts. We limit our liquidity exposure by holding funds, letters of credit and
other security such that net balances due to us are less than the gross balances
shown in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.

     We maintain a substantial level of cash and liquid short-term investments
which are used to meet anticipated payment obligations. Our consolidated cash
and investment portfolio increased $305.4 million, or 34% during 2002, and
totaled $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2002, of which $347.5 million was cash
and short-term investments. The increase in investments resulted primarily from
operating cash flows and the $50.0 million in capital contributions we made to
our insurance companies in 2002. Total assets increased to $3.7 billion as of
December 31, 2002.

                                        42
<PAGE>

     Our investment portfolio includes a high percentage of liquid investments
and generates a significant amount of investment income, which serves as a
source of cash flow. The average tax equivalent yield on investments was 4.6% in
2002, compared to 5.6% in 2001. The weighted average maturity of our fixed
income securities is 4.2 years and weighted average duration of the portfolio
was 3.5 years, both as of December 31, 2002. Over 96% of our fixed income
securities were rated A or better by Standard & Poor's Corporation. The value of
our portfolio of fixed income securities is inversely correlated to changes in
market interest rates. In addition, some of our fixed income securities have
call or prepayment options. This could subject us to reinvestment risk should
interest rates fall or issuers call their securities and we reinvest the
proceeds at lower interest rates. We mitigate this risk by investing in
securities with varied maturity dates, so that only a portion of our portfolio
will mature at any point in time.

     On March 6, 2001, we sold 6.9 million shares of our common stock in a
public offering at a price of $23.35 per share. Net proceeds from the offering
amounted to $152.4 million after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions
and offering expenses and were used to pay down our bank facility.

     In a public offering on August 23, 2001, we issued an aggregate $172.5
million principal amount of 2% Convertible Notes due in 2021. Each $1 thousand
principal amount of notes is convertible into 31.25 shares of our common stock,
which represents an initial conversion price of $32.00 per share. The initial
conversion price is subject to change under certain conditions. Interest is to
be paid by us on March 1 and September 1 each year. Holders may surrender notes
for conversion into shares of our common stock in any calendar quarter if, as of
the last day of the preceding calendar quarter, the closing sale price of our
common stock for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive
trading days ending on the last trading day of the quarter is more than 120%
($38.40 per share) of the conversion price per share of our common stock on the
last trading day of the quarter. We can redeem the notes for cash at any time on
or after September 1, 2006. Holders of the notes may require us to repurchase
the notes on September 1, 2004, 2006, 2008, 2011 and 2016. If the holders
exercise this option, we may choose to pay the purchase price in cash, in shares
of our common stock, or a combination thereof. On September 1, 2002, the first
repurchase date of the notes, $49 thousand of the notes were tendered to us and
we repurchased them with cash. We used the proceeds from this offering to repay
our remaining indebtedness under our bank facility, assist in financing recent
acquisitions, make a $60.0 million capital contribution to our insurance
companies and for general corporate purposes.

     On December 17, 1999, we entered into a $300.0 million Revolving Loan
Facility with a group of banks. At our request, the amount available under the
facility was reduced to $200.0 million by an amendment on June 6, 2001. We can
borrow up to the maximum amount allowed by the facility on a revolving basis
until the facility expires on December 17, 2004. The facility is collateralized
in part by the pledge of our insurance companies' stock and guarantees entered
into by our underwriting agencies and intermediaries. The facility agreement
contains certain restrictive covenants, which we believe are typical for similar
financing arrangements. As of December 31, 2002, there was an outstanding
balance of $53.0 million on this facility bearing interest at an average rate of
3.2%.

     On December 31, 2001 we filed Form S-3 with the United States Securities
and Exchange Commission, which provides a shelf registration for an aggregate of
$750.0 million of our securities available to be issued. These securities may be
debt securities, equity securities or a combination thereof.

     On March 25, 2003, we sold an aggregate $125.0 million principal amount of
1.3% Convertible Notes due in 2023 in a public offering. Each $1 thousand
principal amount of notes is convertible into 29.4377 shares of our common
stock, which represents an initial conversion price of $33.97 per share. Holders
may surrender notes for conversion into shares of our common stock if, as of the
last day of the preceding calendar quarter, the closing sale price of our common
stock for at least 20 consecutive trading days during the period of 30
consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of that quarter is more
than 130% ($44.16 per share) of the conversion price per share of our common
stock. Holders of the notes may require us to repurchase the notes on April 1,
2009, 2014 and 2019. If the holders exercise this option, we may choose to pay
the purchase price in cash, in shares of our common stock, or in a combination
thereof. We plan to use the

                                        43
<PAGE>

proceeds from this offering to pay down existing indebtedness under our bank
facility, assist in financing future acquisitions and strategic investments and
for general corporate purposes.

     At December 31, 2002, certain of our subsidiaries maintained revolving
lines of credit with a bank in the combined maximum amount of $26.8 million
available through December 17, 2004. Advances under the lines of credit are
limited to amounts required to fund draws, if any, on letters of credit issued
by the bank on behalf of the subsidiaries and short-term direct cash advances.
The lines of credit are collateralized by securities having an aggregate market
value of up to $33.5 million, the actual amount of collateral at any one time
being 125% of the aggregate amount outstanding. Interest on the lines is payable
at the bank's prime rate of interest (4.25% at December 31, 2002) for draws on
the letters of credit and prime less 1% on short-term cash advances. As of
December 31, 2002, letters of credit totaling $12.1 million had been issued to
insurance companies by the bank on behalf of our subsidiaries, with total
securities of $15.2 million collateralizing the lines.

     The following is a summary of our contractual cash payment obligations as
of December 31, 2002 (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           PAYMENTS BY DUE DATE
                                               --------------------------------------------
                                     TOTAL      2003     2004-2005   2006-2007   THEREAFTER
                                    --------   -------   ---------   ---------   ----------
<S>                                 <C>        <C>       <C>         <C>         <C>
Convertible notes.................  $172,451   $    --    $    --     $   --      $172,451
Bank facility.....................    53,000        --     53,000         --            --
Other notes payable...............     4,576     2,610        404        404         1,158
Operating leases..................    29,991     8,687     13,150      6,832         1,322
                                    --------   -------    -------     ------      --------
  Total obligations...............  $260,018   $11,297    $66,554     $7,236      $174,931
                                    ========   =======    =======     ======      ========
</Table>

     See preceding paragraphs and Notes (6) and (10) in Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning these
obligations. The convertible notes have various put dates as discussed above.

     The following is a summary of our various commitments (in thousands) as of
December 31, 2002, all of which expire during 2004 or 2005:

<Table>
<S>                                                           <C>
Outgoing letters of credit..................................  $12,140
Mortgage guarantee..........................................   11,140
                                                              -------
  Total commitments.........................................  $23,280
                                                              =======
</Table>

     We have sold businesses in the past. In connection with these sales, we
have provided indemnifications to the buyers, which we believe are typical for
transactions of this nature, based upon the type of business sold. Certain of
these indemnifications have no limit. It is not possible to estimate the maximum
potential amount under these indemnifications as our performance under the
indemnifications and our ultimate liability are based upon the occurrence of
future events which may or may not occur. We currently have a liability in the
amount of $6.2 million recorded for performance under one such indemnification.
This indemnification was given by a company we acquired, prior to its
acquisition, in connection with a sale of one of its subsidiaries.

     The principal assets of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. are the shares of
capital stock of our insurance companies. Historically, we have not relied on
dividends from our insurance companies to meet the obligations of the parent
holding company, which are primarily outstanding debt and debt service
obligations, dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses, but, rather, we
have had sufficient cash flow from our underwriting agencies and intermediaries
to meet our cash flow requirements. The payment of dividends by our insurance
companies is subject to regulatory restrictions and will depend on the surplus
and future earnings of these subsidiaries.

     Property and casualty insurance companies domiciled in the State of Texas
are limited in the payment of dividends to their shareholders in any
twelve-month period, without the prior written consent of the Commissioner of
Insurance, to the greater of statutory net income for the prior calendar year or
10% of their

                                        44
<PAGE>

statutory policyholders' surplus as of the prior year end. During 2003, Houston
Casualty Company's ordinary dividend capacity will be approximately $40.0
million and U.S. Specialty Insurance Company's ordinary dividend capacity will
be approximately $11.0 million.

     Avemco Insurance Company is limited by the State of Maryland in the amount
of dividends which it may pay in any twelve-month period, without prior
regulatory approval, to the lesser of its statutory net investment income
excluding realized capital gains for the prior calendar year or 10% of its
statutory policyholders' surplus as of the prior year end. During 2003, Avemco
Insurance Company's ordinary dividend capacity will be zero as a result of a
special approved dividend paid in 2002.

     HCC Life Insurance Company is limited by the laws of the State of Indiana
in the amount of dividends it may pay in any twelve-month period, without prior
regulatory approval, to the greater of its statutory net gain from operations
for the prior calendar year or 10% of its policyholders' surplus as of the prior
year end. Dividends may only be paid out of statutory unassigned surplus funds.
During 2003, HCC Life Insurance Company's ordinary dividend capacity will be
approximately $6.0 million.

     We have a reserve of $7.1 million as of December 31, 2002 for potential
collectibility issues and associated expenses related to reinsurance
recoverables. The adverse economic environment in the worldwide insurance
industry, the decline in the market value of investments in equity securities
and the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001 have placed great pressure on
reinsurers and the results of their operations. Ultimately, these conditions
could affect reinsurers' solvency. Historically, there have been insolvencies
following a period of competitive pricing in the industry. While we believe that
the reserve is adequate based on currently available information, conditions may
change or additional information might be obtained which may result in a future
change in the reserve. We periodically review our financial exposure to the
reinsurance market and the level of our reserve and continue to take actions in
an attempt to mitigate our exposure to possible loss.

     A number of reinsurers have delayed or suspended the payment of amounts
recoverable under certain reinsurance contracts to which we are a party. Such
delays have affected, although not materially to date, the investment income of
our insurance companies, but not to any extent their liquidity. We limit our
liquidity exposure by holding funds, letters of credit or other security such
that net balances due are significantly less than the gross balances shown in
our consolidated balance sheets. In some instances, the reinsurers have withheld
payment without reference to a substantive basis for the delay or suspension. In
other cases, the reinsurers have claimed they are not liable for payment to us
of all or part of the amounts due under the applicable reinsurance agreement. We
believe these claims are without merit and expect to collect the full amounts
recoverable. We are currently in negotiations with most of these parties, but if
such negotiations do not result in a satisfactory resolution of the matters in
question, we may seek or be involved in a judicial or arbitral determination of
these matters. In some cases, the final resolution of such disputes through
arbitration or litigation may extend over several years. In this regard, as of
December 31, 2002, our insurance companies had initiated two litigation
proceedings against reinsurers. As of such date, our insurance companies had an
aggregate amount of $5.8 million which had not been paid to us under the
agreements and we estimate that there could be up to an additional $10.7 million
of incurred losses and loss expenses and other balances due under the subject
agreements.

     Regulatory guidelines suggest that a property and casualty insurer's annual
statutory gross written premium should not exceed 900% of its statutory
policyholders' surplus and net written premium should not exceed 300% of its
statutory policyholders' surplus. However, industry standards and rating agency
criteria place these ratios at 300% and 200%, respectively. Our property and
casualty insurance companies have maintained premium to surplus ratios generally
lower than such guidelines. For the year ended December 31, 2002, our statutory
gross written premium to policyholders' surplus was 222.1%. For the year ended
December 31, 2002, our statutory net written premium to policyholders' surplus
was 104.1%. As of December 31, 2002, each of our domestic insurance companies'
total adjusted capital was significantly in excess of the authorized control
level risk-based capital level prescribed by the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners.

                                        45
<PAGE>

IMPACT OF INFLATION

     Our operations, like those of other property and casualty insurers, are
susceptible to the effects of inflation, as premiums are established before the
ultimate amounts of loss and loss adjustment expense are known. Although we
consider the potential effects of inflation when setting premium rates, for
competitive reasons, such premiums may not fully offset the effects of
inflation. However, because the majority of our business is comprised of lines
which have relatively short lead times between the occurrence of an insured
event, reporting of the claims to us and the final settlement of the claims, the
effects of inflation are minimized.

     A portion of our revenue is related to healthcare insurance and reinsurance
products that are subject to the effects of the underlying inflation of
healthcare costs. Such inflation in the costs of healthcare tends to generate
increases in premiums for medical stop-loss coverage, resulting in greater
revenue, but also higher claim payments. Inflation also may have a negative
impact on insurance and reinsurance operations by causing higher claim
settlements than may originally have been estimated without an immediate
increase in premiums to a level necessary to maintain profit margins. We do not
specifically provide for inflation when setting underwriting terms and claim
reserves, although we do consider trends. We continually review claim reserves
to assess their adequacy and make necessary adjustments.

     Inflation can also affect interest rates. Any significant increase in
interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our
investments. In addition, the interest rate payable under our $200.0 million
bank loan fluctuates with that of the market. Any significant increase in
interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, depending
on the amount borrowed on our bank facility.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS

     We underwrite risks which are denominated in a number of foreign
currencies. As a result, we have receivables and payables in foreign currencies
and we establish and maintain loss reserves with respect to our insurance
policies in their respective currencies. Our net earnings could be impacted by
exchange rate fluctuations affecting these balances. Our principal area of
exposure is with respect to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the major
European currencies (particularly the British pound sterling and the Euro) and
the U.S. dollar. We constantly monitor the balance between our receivables and
payables and loss reserves to mitigate the potential exposure should an
imbalance be expected to exist for other than a short period of time. For the
year ended December 31, 2002, our gain from currency conversion was $1.2 million
compared to a gain of $0.3 million in 2001 and a loss of $0.3 million in 2000.

     On a limited basis, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts as a
hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. Rattner Mackenzie Limited has
revenue streams in U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars but incurs expenses in
British pound sterling. To mitigate the foreign exchange risk, from time to time
we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts expiring at staggered
times. As of December 31, 2002, we had no foreign currency forward contracts
outstanding. The foreign currency forward contracts are used to convert currency
at a known rate in an amount which either approximates or is less than monthly
expenses. Thus, the effect of these transactions is to limit the foreign
currency exchange risk of the recurring monthly expenses. We utilize these
foreign currency forward contracts strictly as a cash flow hedge against
existing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations rather than as a form of
speculative or trading investment.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and
assumptions when applying our accounting policies. Those of our accounting
policies that we consider to be most significant and the estimates and
assumptions we make in the application of those accounting policies are
discussed below.

                                        46
<PAGE>

 EARNED PREMIUM, POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS AND CEDING COMMISSIONS

     All of the property and casualty policies written by our insurance
companies qualify as short-duration contracts as defined by current accounting
literature. Written premium, net of reinsurance, is primarily included in
earnings on a pro rata basis over the lives of the related policies. However,
for certain types of business, it is recognized over the period of risk in
proportion to the amount of insurance risk provided. Policy acquisition costs,
including commissions, taxes, fees and other direct costs of underwriting
policies, less ceding commissions allowed by reinsurers, including expense
allowances, are deferred and charged or credited to earnings proportionate to
the premium earned. Historical and current loss and loss adjustment expense
experience and anticipated investment income are considered in determining
premium deficiencies and the recoverability of deferred policy acquisition
costs.

 LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE

     Our net loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are composed of reserves
for reported losses and reserves for incurred but not reported losses less a
reduction for reinsurance recoverable related to those reserves. Reserves are
recorded on an undiscounted basis, except for reserves acquired in transactions
recorded using the purchase method of accounting. The reserves for reported
losses related to our direct business and certain reinsurance assumed are
initially set by our claims personnel or independent claims adjusters hired by
us and subject to our review with a goal of setting the reserves at the ultimate
expected loss amount as soon as possible as information becomes available.
Reserves for reported losses with respect to other reinsurance assumed are
recorded based upon information supplied to us by the ceding company. Our claims
personnel monitor these reinsurance assumed reserves on a current basis and
audit ceding companies' claims to ascertain that claims are being recorded
currently and that net reserves are being set at levels that properly reflect
the liability related to the claims. Our actuaries, in conjunction with our
claims personnel, determine the amount of our incurred but not reported reserves
as well as review the reported claim reserves for positive or adverse
development. Reserves are estimates and changed conditions can cause changes in
the estimates. However, we believe that our review process is effective such
that any required changes are recognized in the period of change as soon as the
need for the change is evident. Reinsurance recoverables offset our gross
reserves based upon the contractual terms of our reinsurance agreements.

     Losses in our group life and accident and health, aviation, London market
accounts and other specialty lines of business are recorded and paid relatively
quickly. There is not a significant amount of long-tailed liability exposure in
these lines of business. Therefore, reserves can be determined and recorded with
a higher degree of accuracy and significant development should not be expected
with respect to losses in these lines of business. There is some reinsurance
assumed in these lines of business, but, as discussed above, we monitor the
assumed reported losses closely. Losses related to our global financial products
line of business are reported relatively quickly but can develop over time as,
especially with respect to directors and officers liability business where we
write excess of loss risks, reported losses which are adjusted by the primary
underwriter on the risk may not initially appear to be serious but can develop
and affect our excess layer over time. We believe that we have adequately
reserved for this eventuality. Our discontinued line of business contains both
direct business and assumed business. Some of the losses in this line are
administered by others, subject to our review. It is possible that there can be
development in the loss reserves in this line of business as the business is in
run off and some of it is subject to late reporting by those administering the
claims. We monitor these reserves carefully on a current basis and believe that
they are properly set based upon the information we have at this time.

     We have insignificant exposure to asbestos and environment policy
liabilities as we did not begin business until 1981 and the type of business we
wrote contained pollution exclusions or was not of the type that subjected us to
those types of risks.

     The table below shows our recorded reserves as of December 31, 2002 (in
thousands) by line of business compared to the high and low ends of the reserve
range as determined by our reserving actuaries. Based upon

                                        47
<PAGE>

our historical reserving techniques and the fact that our net reserves have
historically shown positive development, we believe that there will not be any
negative development in our consolidated reserves:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                  RECORDED     LOW END OF        HIGH END OF
                                                  RESERVES   ACTUARIAL RANGE   ACTUARIAL RANGE
                                                  --------   ---------------   ---------------
<S>                                               <C>        <C>               <C>
LINES OF BUSINESS
  Group life, accident and health...............  $ 95,130      $ 81,940          $ 98,411
  Aviation......................................    72,345        63,451            76,110
  London market accounts........................    91,824        77,441            95,993
  Global financial products.....................    22,035        19,057            24,081
  Other specialty lines.........................    15,584        14,031            16,751
                                                  --------      --------          --------
                                                   296,918       255,920           311,346
  Discontinued lines............................   160,400       152,006           193,135
                                                  --------      --------          --------
     Total net reserves.........................  $457,318      $407,926          $504,481
                                                  ========      ========          ========
</Table>

 REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES

     We constantly review the collectibility of the reinsurance recoverables of
our insurance companies and record a reserve for potentially uncollectible
reinsurance. Our estimates utilized to calculate the reserve are evaluated on a
current basis but are subject to change and this could affect the level of the
reserve required. We believe, based upon periodic detail reviews of our disputed
and aged recoverables, that we have sufficiently provided for potential losses
that are currently evident. See also Item 3, Legal Proceedings and the
Reinsurance Ceded section contained in Item 1, Business.

 MANAGEMENT FEES AND COMMISSION INCOME

     When there is no significant future servicing obligation, management fees
and commission income from our underwriting agencies and intermediaries,
respectively, are recognized on the revenue recognition date, which is the later
of the effective date of policy, the date when the premium can be reasonably
established, or the date when substantially all the services relating to the
insurance placement have been rendered to the client. Profit commissions based
upon the profitability of business written are recorded as revenue at the end of
each accounting period based upon the respective formula calculation. Such
amounts are adjusted should experience change. When additional services are
required, the service revenue is deferred and recognized over the service
period. We also record an allowance for estimated return commissions which may
be required to be paid upon the early termination of policies. These policies
are consistent with policies that have become generally accepted accounting
principles for insurance agents and brokers and with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin Number 101 entitled "Revenue Recognition
in Financial Statements."

 DEFERRED TAXES

     We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences
between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and
liabilities. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and
establish a valuation allowance based on our history of earnings, expectations
for future earnings, taxable income in carry back years and the expected timing
of the reversals of existing temporary differences. Although realization is not
assured, we believe it is more likely than not that we will be able to realize
the benefit of our deferred tax assets, with the exception of the benefit of
certain pre-acquisition tax loss carryforwards for which valuation allowances
have been provided. If there is a material change in the tax laws such that the
actual effective tax rate changes or the time periods within which the
underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible change, we will
need to reevaluate our assumptions which could result in a change in the
valuation allowance required.

                                        48
<PAGE>

  VALUATION OF GOODWILL

     We assess the impairment of goodwill annually or sooner if an event occurs
or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of
a reporting unit below its carrying amount. In determining the fair value of a
reporting unit, we utilize the expected cash flow approach as set forth in FASB
Concepts Statement No. 7. This approach utilizes a risk-free rate of interest,
estimates of future cash flows and probabilities as to the occurrence of the
future cash flows. We utilize our budgets and projection of future operations
based upon historical and expected industry trends to estimate our future cash
flows and the probability of their occurring as projected. Based upon our last
impairment test, the fair value of each of our reporting units exceeded its
carrying amount by a substantial margin.

  OTHER THAN TEMPORARY IMPAIRMENTS ON INVESTMENTS

     Declines in the market value of invested assets below cost are evaluated
for other than temporary impairment losses on a quarterly basis. Impairment
losses for declines in value of fixed maturity investments and equity securities
below cost attributable to issuer-specific events are based upon all relevant
facts and circumstances for each investment and are recognized when appropriate.
For fixed maturity investments with unrealized losses due to market conditions
or industry-related events where we have the positive intent and ability to hold
the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow a market recovery or to
maturity, declines in value below cost are not assumed to be other than
temporary. Our policy for equity securities is to recognize impairment losses on
specific securities that have had continuous material unrealized losses for more
than three consecutive quarters or less, due to market conditions or
industry-related events. As of December 31, 2002, we had gross unrealized losses
on fixed income and marketable equity securities of $1.5 million (.2% of
aggregate market value) compared to $1.7 million (.3% of aggregate market value)
as of December 31, 2001.

EFFECTS OF RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 146 entitled
"Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities" was issued in
July, 2002 and will become effective for us on January 1, 2003. SFAS No. 146
will spread out the reporting of expenses related to restructurings and is a
change to existing guidance. The commitment to a plan to exit an activity or
dispose of long-lived assets will no longer be enough to record a one-time
charge for most anticipated costs. Instead, companies will record exit or
disposal costs when they are incurred and can be measured at fair value and the
liability will be subsequently adjusted for changes in estimated cash flow. We
do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 146 to have a material effect on our
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

     Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation ("FIN") No. 45 entitled
"Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others . . ." was issued on November 25,
2002. The provision for initial recognition and measurement are effective on a
prospective basis for guarantees that are issued or modified after December 31,
2002 and disclosure requirements were effective for periods ending after
December 15, 2002. We have complied with the disclosure requirements in these
financial statements and do not believe that the recognition and measurement
provisions will have a material effect on our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

     FIN No. 46 entitled "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities", which is
an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 entitled "Consolidated
Financial Statements" addresses consolidation by business enterprises of
variable interest entities which have certain characteristics. FIN No. 46
requires consolidation of a qualifying variable interest entity when a party has
a controlling financial interest regardless of whether or not the party has a
majority voting interest. FIN No. 46 is immediately effective for qualifying
variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003 and applicable to such
entities created prior to February 1, 2003 by the end of our third fiscal
quarter in 2003. We are currently studying FIN No. 46 for applicability to us.
At the present time we believe FIN No. 46 will only be applicable to one entity
in which we have an investment. We invested in a partnership, which owns a
building which is rented to unaffiliated parties, as a long term investment. The
partnership is not material to our financial position, results of

                                        49
<PAGE>

operations or cash flows. We have a maximum exposure to loss of $14.1 million
with respect to this entity as a result of our investment and our guarantee of
the partnership's debt.

     Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 00-21 entitled "Revenue
Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables" is effective for revenue arrangements
entered into in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003 or alternatively
can be applied retroactively. EITF Issue No. 00-21 addressed how to determine
whether an arrangement involving multiple deliverables contains more than one
unit of accounting. EITF Issue No. 00-21 also addresses how arrangement
consideration should be measured and allocated to the separate units of
accounting in the arrangement. We do not believe that this EITF Issue No. 00-21
will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or
cash flows as the issues in EITF Issue No. 00-21 have been previously addressed
when we adopted Securities and Exchange Commissions' Staff Accounting Bulletin
101.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

     Our principal assets and liabilities are financial instruments which are
subject to the market risk of potential losses from adverse changes in market
rates and prices. Our primary market risk exposures are: interest rate risk on
fixed income securities and interest expense on variable rate debt, equity risk
on marketable equity securities, credit risk on reinsurance recoverables and
foreign currency exchange rate risk.

     To manage the exposures of our investment risks, we generally invest in
investment grade securities with characteristics of duration and liquidity to
reflect the underlying characteristics of the insurance liabilities of our
insurance companies. We have not historically used derivatives to manage any of
our investment related market risks.

     Caution should be used in evaluating overall market risk utilizing the
information below. Actual results could differ materially from estimates below
for a variety of reasons, including, among other things:

     - amounts and balances on which the estimates are based are likely to
       change over time;

     - assumptions used in the models may prove to be inaccurate;

     - market changes could be different from market changes assumed below; and

     - not all factors and balances are taken into account.

 INTEREST RATE RISK

     The value of our portfolio of fixed income securities is inversely
correlated to changes in the market interest rates. In addition, some of our
fixed income securities have call or prepayment options. This could subject us
to reinvestment risk should interest rates fall or issuers call their securities
and we reinvest the proceeds at lower interest rates. We attempt to mitigate
this risk by investing in securities with varied maturity dates, so that only a
portion of the portfolio will mature at any point in time. The fair value of our
fixed income securities as of December 31, 2002 was $841.5 million and was
$525.4 million as of December 31, 2001. If market interest rates were to change
1%, (e.g. from 5% to 6%) the fair value of our fixed income securities would
change approximately $29.5 million as of December 31, 2002. This compares to
change in value of $21.0 million as of December 31, 2001 for the same 1% change
in market interest rates. The change in fair value was determined using duration
modeling assuming no prepayments.

     Our $200.0 million bank loan is subject to variable interest rates. Thus,
our interest expense on this loan is directly correlated to market interest
rates. As of December 31, 2002, we had $53.0 million in debt outstanding under
the bank loan. At that debt level, the 1% change in market interest rates would
have changed interest expense by $0.5 million. As of December 31, 2001, there
was no balance outstanding under our bank loan and our 2% convertible notes are
not subject to interest rate changes.

 EQUITY RISK

     Our portfolio of marketable equity securities is subject to equity price
risk due to market changes. The fair value of our marketable equity securities
(including the amounts, if any, of insurance related equity

                                        50
<PAGE>

securities designated as trading securities and included in other assets) as of
December 31, 2002 was $25.7 million, compared to $16.6 million as of December
31, 2001. The balance at December 31, 2002 includes mutual fund securities with
a value of $10.5 million. These mutual funds are invested heavily in fixed
income securities but represent marketable equity securities for reporting
purposes. If the market price of all marketable equity securities were to change
by 10% as of these dates, the fair value of our portfolio of marketable equity
securities would have changed $2.6 million as of December 31, 2002 and $1.7
million as of December 31, 2001.

 FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK

     The table below shows the net amounts of significant foreign currency
balances at December 31, 2002 and 2001 converted to U.S. dollars. It also shows
the expected dollar change in fair value that would occur if exchange rates
changed 10% from exchange rates in effect at those times (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                     2002                          2001
                                          ---------------------------   ---------------------------
                                                        HYPOTHETICAL                  HYPOTHETICAL
                                          U.S. DOLLAR    10% CHANGE     U.S. DOLLAR    10% CHANGE
                                          EQUIVALENT    IN FAIR VALUE   EQUIVALENT    IN FAIR VALUE
                                          -----------   -------------   -----------   -------------
<S>                                       <C>           <C>             <C>           <C>
British Pound Sterling..................    $7,617          $762          $2,366          $237
Euro....................................     3,518           352             313            31
Canadian Dollar.........................     1,815           182           1,651           165
</Table>

     See Foreign Exchange Rate Fluctuations section contained in Item 7,
Management's Discussion and Analysis, and Notes (1) and (9) in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The financial statements and financial statement schedules listed in the
accompanying index are filed as part of this Report.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES

     None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     For information regarding Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant, reference is made to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement for
its Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2002, and which is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     For information regarding Executive Compensation, reference is made to the
Registrant's definitive proxy statement for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders,
which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days
after December 31, 2002, and which is incorporated herein by reference.

                                        51
<PAGE>

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

                      EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                        NUMBER OF SECURITIES
                                                                                       REMAINING AVAILABLE FOR
                                          NUMBER OF SECURITIES    WEIGHTED AVERAGE      FUTURE ISSUANCE UNDER
                                           TO BE ISSUED UPON      EXERCISE PRICE OF      EQUITY COMPENSATION
                                              EXERCISE OF            OUTSTANDING          PLANS (EXCLUDING
                                          OUTSTANDING OPTIONS,    OPTIONS, WARRANTS    SECURITIES REFLECTED IN
PLAN CATEGORY                             WARRANTS AND RIGHTS        AND RIGHTS              COLUMN (A))
- -------------                             --------------------   -------------------   -----------------------
                                                  (A)                    (B)                     (C)
<S>                                       <C>                    <C>                   <C>
Equity compensation plans approved by
  security holders......................      6.3 million              $21.03                0.9 million
Equity compensation plans not approved
  by security holders(1)(2).............      0.1 million               16.40                         --
                                              -----------              ------                -----------
     TOTAL..............................      6.4 million              $20.99                0.9 million
                                              ===========              ======                ===========
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) On December 16, 1999 the Board of Directors of the Company approved the
    issuance of an aggregate of 35,000 stock options to the then serving members
    of the Board of Directors. Such options were exercisable upon issuance and
    were granted on January 5, 2000 at a per share exercise price of $12.0625
    (the closing price of HCC's common stock on the NYSE on January 5, 2000) and
    expire on January 5, 2005.

(2) On March 27, 2001, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
    approved the issuance of 20,000 options to James C. Flagg, a member of the
    Board of Directors. Such options vest over a period of three years and have
    an exercise price of $24.00 (the closing price of HCC's Common Stock on the
    NYSE on March 29, 2001). The options expire March 29, 2007.

     For additional information regarding Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management, reference is made to the Registrant's
definitive proxy statement for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December
31, 2002, and which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     For information regarding Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
reference is made to the Registrant's definitive proxy statement for its Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2002, and which is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 14. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

     (a)  Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.

     Within the 90 days prior to the date of this report, we carried out an
evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14. Based upon that evaluation, the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them to
material information relating to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and its
subsidiaries required to be included in our periodic SEC filings.

     (b)  Changes in internal controls.

     There have been no significant changes in our internal controls or in other
factors which could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the
date we carried out our evaluation.

                                        52
<PAGE>

                                    PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)  Exhibits

     The exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to Exhibits are filed as part
of this Report.

     (b)  Financial Statement Schedules

     The financial statements and financial statement schedules listed in the
accompanying Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules are filed
as part of this Report.

     (c)  Reports on Form 8-K

     On November 8, 2002, we reported on Form 8-K our announcement of operating
results for the third quarter of 2002.

     On December 13, 2002, we reported on Form 8-K the text material used for an
investors' conference.

                                        53
<PAGE>

                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.
                                                (Registrant)

<Table>
<S>                                                      <C>
Dated: March 27, 2003                                                     By: /s/ STEPHEN L. WAY
- ------------------------                                     ----------------------------------------------------
                                                                             (Stephen L. Way)
                                                                        Chairman of the Board and
                                                                         Chief Executive Officer
</Table>

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

<Table>
<Caption>
                       NAME                                        TITLE                       DATE
                       ----                                        -----                       ----
<S>     <C>                                          <C>                                  <C>

                /s/ STEPHEN L. WAY                        Chairman of the Board of        March 27, 2003
 ------------------------------------------------    Directors, Chief Executive Officer   --------------
                 (Stephen L. Way)                    and President (Principal Executive
                                                                  Officer)


              /s/ FRANK J. BRAMANTI*                              Director                March 27, 2003
 ------------------------------------------------                                         --------------
               (Frank J. Bramanti)


             /s/ PATRICK B. COLLINS*                              Director                March 27, 2003
 ------------------------------------------------                                         --------------
               (Patrick B. Collins)


               /s/ JAMES R. CRANE*                                Director                March 27, 2003
 ------------------------------------------------                                         --------------
                 (James R. Crane)


             /s/ J. ROBERT DICKERSON*                             Director                March 27, 2003
 ------------------------------------------------                                         --------------
              (J. Robert Dickerson)


             /s/ EDWARD H. ELLIS, JR.                Director, Executive Vice President   March 27, 2003
 ------------------------------------------------    and Chief Financial Officer (Chief   --------------
              (Edward H. Ellis, Jr.)                        Accounting Officer)


            /s/ JAMES C. FLAGG, PH.D.*                            Director                March 27, 2003
 ------------------------------------------------                                         --------------
             (James C. Flagg, Ph.D.)


             /s/ EDWIN H. FRANK, III*                             Director                March 27, 2003
 ------------------------------------------------                                         --------------
              (Edwin H. Frank, III)


             /s/ ALLAN W. FULKERSON*                              Director                March 27, 2003
 ------------------------------------------------                                         --------------
               (Allan W. Fulkerson)


               /s/ WALTER J. LACK*                                Director                March 27, 2003
 ------------------------------------------------                                         --------------
                 (Walter J. Lack)
</Table>

                                        54
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                       NAME                                        TITLE                       DATE
                       ----                                        -----                       ----

<S>     <C>                                          <C>                                  <C>

            /s/ MICHAEL A. F. ROBERTS*                            Director                March 27, 2003
 ------------------------------------------------                                         --------------
             (Michael A. F. Roberts)


 *By:               /s/ STEPHEN L. WAY                                                    March 27, 2003
        -----------------------------------------                                         --------------
                      Stephen L. Way
                     Attorney-in-fact
</Table>

                                        55
<PAGE>

            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES

<Table>
<S>                                                            <C>
Report of Independent Accountants...........................    F-1
Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2001 and 2000...    F-2
Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the three years
  ended December 31, 2001...................................    F-3
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the
  three years ended December 31, 2001.......................    F-4
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
  for the three years ended December 31, 2001...............    F-5
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years
  ended December 31, 2001...................................    F-6
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................    F-7

SCHEDULES:
Report of Independent Accountants on Financial Statement
  Schedules.................................................    S-1
Schedule 1  Summary of Investments other than Investments in
  Related Parties...........................................    S-2
Schedule 2  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant...    S-3
Schedule 3  Supplementary Insurance Information.............    S-8
Schedule 4  Reinsurance.....................................    S-9
Schedule 5  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts...............   S-10
</Table>

     Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted because they are
either not required, not applicable, or the required information is shown in the
Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto or other Schedules.

                                        56
<PAGE>

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.

     In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the
related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, changes in
shareholders' equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2002, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 1, 2000 the Company changed its method of revenue recognition for
certain contracts as prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission's
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 entitled "Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements". Additionally, as discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements, effective January 1, 2002 the Company changed its method of
accounting for goodwill as prescribed by Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 142 entitled "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets".

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Houston, Texas
March 21, 2003

                                       F-1
<PAGE>

                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                   DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -----------------------
                                                                 2002         2001
                                                              ----------   ----------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
                                       ASSETS
Investments:
  Fixed income securities, at market (cost:
     2002 -- $807,772; 2001 -- $513,674)....................  $  841,548   $  525,428
  Marketable equity securities, at market (cost:
     2002 -- $15,815; 2001 -- $16,431)......................      15,609       16,569
  Short-term investments, at cost, which approximates
     market.................................................     307,215      338,904
  Other investments, at estimated fair value (cost:
     2002 -- $3,264; 2001 -- $4,400)........................       3,264        4,758
                                                              ----------   ----------
       Total investments....................................   1,167,636      885,659
Cash........................................................      40,306       16,891
Restricted cash and cash investments........................     189,396      138,545
Premium, claims and other receivables.......................     753,527      665,965
Reinsurance recoverables....................................     798,934      899,128
Ceded unearned premium......................................     164,224       71,140
Ceded life and annuity benefits.............................      78,951       83,013
Deferred policy acquisition costs...........................      68,846       32,071
Goodwill....................................................     335,288      315,318
Other assets................................................     107,043      111,390
                                                              ----------   ----------
       Total assets.........................................  $3,704,151   $3,219,120
                                                              ==========   ==========
                                     LIABILITIES
Loss and loss adjustment expense payable....................  $1,155,290   $1,130,748
Life and annuity policy benefits............................      78,951       83,013
Reinsurance balances payable................................     166,659       88,637
Unearned premium............................................     331,050      179,530
Deferred ceding commissions.................................      49,963       16,681
Premium and claims payable..................................     749,523      717,159
Notes payable...............................................     230,027      181,928
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities....................      59,781       57,971
                                                              ----------   ----------
       Total liabilities....................................   2,821,244    2,455,667
Shareholders' Equity
  Common stock, $1.00 par value; 250.0 million shares
     authorized; (shares issued and outstanding:
     2002 -- 62,358; 2001 -- 61,438)........................      62,358       61,438
  Additional paid-in capital................................     416,406      402,089
  Retained earnings.........................................     383,378      293,426
  Accumulated other comprehensive income....................      20,765        6,500
                                                              ----------   ----------
       Total shareholders' equity...........................     882,907      763,453
                                                              ----------   ----------
       Total liabilities and shareholders' equity...........  $3,704,151   $3,219,120
                                                              ==========   ==========
</Table>

                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                       F-2
<PAGE>

                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------------------
                                                                2002        2001        2000
                                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>         <C>
REVENUE
Net earned premium..........................................  $505,521    $342,787    $267,647
Management fees.............................................    77,082      61,795      96,058
Commission income...........................................    41,572      43,412      49,886
Net investment income.......................................    37,769      39,638      39,836
Net realized investment gain (loss).........................       453         393      (5,321)
Other operating income......................................     6,985      17,436      25,497
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     Total revenue..........................................   669,382     505,461     473,603
EXPENSE
Loss and loss adjustment expense, net.......................   306,491     267,390     198,470
Operating expense:
  Policy acquisition costs, net.............................    63,274      27,923      23,743
  Compensation expense......................................    80,495      69,762      83,086
  Other operating expense...................................    47,642      71,119      53,274
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     Total operating expense................................   191,411     168,804     160,103
Interest expense............................................     8,301       8,884      20,347
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     Total expense..........................................   506,203     445,078     378,920
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     Earnings before income tax provision...................   163,179      60,383      94,683
Income tax provision........................................    57,351      30,186      37,202
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     Earnings before cumulative effect of accounting
       change...............................................   105,828      30,197      57,481
     Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of deferred
       tax effect of $1,335.................................        --          --      (2,013)
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     NET EARNINGS...........................................  $105,828    $ 30,197    $ 55,468
                                                              ========    ========    ========
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE DATA:
     Earnings before accounting change......................  $   1.70    $   0.52    $   1.13
     Cumulative effect of accounting change.................        --          --       (0.04)
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     Net earnings...........................................  $   1.70    $   0.52    $   1.09
                                                              ========    ========    ========
     Weighted average shares outstanding....................    62,225      58,321      50,742
                                                              ========    ========    ========
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE DATA:
     Earnings before accounting change......................  $   1.68    $   0.51    $   1.11
     Cumulative effect of accounting change.................        --          --       (0.04)
                                                              --------    --------    --------
     Net earnings...........................................  $   1.68    $   0.51    $   1.07
                                                              ========    ========    ========
     Weighted average shares outstanding....................    62,936      59,619      51,619
                                                              ========    ========    ========
</Table>

                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                       F-3
<PAGE>

                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ----------------------------------
                                                                 2002        2001        2000
                                                              ----------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>         <C>
Net earnings................................................   $105,828     $30,197     $55,468
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
  Foreign currency translation adjustment...................         50        (279)       (172)
  Gains (losses) in fair value of foreign currency forward
     contracts recorded as a cash flow hedge, net of income
     tax charge (benefit) of $(13) in 2002 and $13 in
     2001...................................................        (24)         24          --
  Investment gains (losses):
     Investment gains during the year, net of income tax
       charge of $8,040 in 2002, $1,137 in 2001, and $2,386
       in 2000..............................................     14,533       2,297       4,118
     Less reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses
       included in net earnings, net of income tax (charge)
       benefit of $(159) in 2002, $(138) in 2001, and $1,862
       in 2000..............................................       (294)       (255)      3,459
                                                               --------     -------     -------
  Other comprehensive income................................     14,265       1,787       7,405
                                                               --------     -------     -------
     COMPREHENSIVE INCOME...................................   $120,093     $31,984     $62,873
                                                               ========     =======     =======
</Table>

                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                       F-4
<PAGE>

                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002, 2001 AND 2000
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                          ACCUMULATED
                                                 ADDITIONAL                  OTHER           TOTAL
                                       COMMON     PAID-IN     RETAINED   COMPREHENSIVE   SHAREHOLDERS'
                                        STOCK     CAPITAL     EARNINGS   INCOME (LOSS)      EQUITY
                                       -------   ----------   --------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                    <C>       <C>          <C>        <C>             <C>
BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1999......  $49,836    $175,363    $235,932      $(2,692)       $458,439
Net earnings.........................       --          --      55,468           --          55,468
Other comprehensive income...........       --          --          --        7,405           7,405
1,267 shares of common stock issued
  for exercise of options, including
  tax benefit of $3,627..............    1,266      19,596          --           --          20,862
Issuance of 145 shares of
  contractually issuable common
  stock..............................      145        (145)         --           --              --
Issuance of 95 shares of contingently
  issuable common stock..............       95       1,145          --           --           1,240
Contractual grant of pooled company
  common stock by a shareholder prior
  to acquisition.....................       --       1,040          --           --           1,040
Dividends to shareholders of pooled
  company prior to acquisition.......       --          --      (2,593)          --          (2,593)
Cash dividends declared, $0.22 per
  share..............................       --          --     (10,931)          --         (10,931)
                                       -------    --------    --------      -------        --------
BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2000......   51,342     196,999     277,876        4,713         530,930
Net earnings.........................       --          --      30,197           --          30,197
Other comprehensive income...........       --          --          --        1,787           1,787
6,900 shares of common stock issued
  in public offering, net of costs...    6,900     145,505          --           --         152,405
2,715 shares of common stock issued
  upon exercise of options including
  income tax benefit of $12,312......    2,715      50,023          --           --          52,738
300 shares of common stock issued for
  purchased companies................      300       8,031          --           --           8,331
Issuance of 114 shares of
  contractually issuable common
  stock..............................      114        (114)         --           --              --
Issuance of 67 shares of contingently
  issuable common stock..............       67       1,645          --           --           1,712
Cash dividends declared, $0.245 per
  share..............................       --          --     (14,647)          --         (14,647)
                                       -------    --------    --------      -------        --------
BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2001......   61,438     402,089     293,426        6,500         763,453
Net earnings.........................       --          --     105,828           --         105,828
Other comprehensive income...........       --          --          --       14,265          14,265
817 shares of common stock issued for
  exercise of options, including tax
  benefit of $4,030..................      817      14,420          --           --          15,237
Issuance of 103 shares of
  contractually issuable common
  stock..............................      103        (103)         --           --              --
Cash dividends declared, $0.255 per
  share..............................       --          --     (15,876)          --         (15,876)
                                       -------    --------    --------      -------        --------
BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002......  $62,358    $416,406    $383,378      $20,765        $882,907
                                       =======    ========    ========      =======        ========
</Table>

                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                       F-5
<PAGE>

                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                            ---------------------------------
                                                              2002        2001        2000
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                                         <C>         <C>         <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net earnings............................................  $ 105,828   $  30,197   $  55,468
  Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash
     provided by operating activities:
     Change in premium, claims and other receivables......    (41,330)    (33,976)     30,501
     Change in reinsurance recoverables...................    103,870    (191,552)    (52,007)
     Change in ceded unearned premium.....................    (88,940)     28,254      19,188
     Change in loss and loss adjustment expense payable...    (57,747)    262,056      72,311
     Change in reinsurance balances payable...............     70,672     (29,837)     17,052
     Change in unearned premium...........................    122,811      (1,676)      2,689
     Change in premium and claims payable, net of
       restricted cash....................................    (57,317)     22,530     (20,727)
     Gains on dispositions of other operating
       investments........................................         --      (8,171)     (5,739)
     Depreciation, amortization and impairments...........     10,808      34,926      19,908
     Other, net...........................................      6,467      (7,011)       (820)
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
       Cash provided by operating activities..............    175,122     105,740     137,824
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Sales of fixed income securities........................    217,370     140,763     137,175
  Maturity or call of fixed income securities.............     53,918      45,754      34,341
  Sales of equity securities..............................      3,958       5,408       7,969
  Dispositions of other operating investments.............         --      19,965      27,803
  Change in short-term investments........................     84,799     (43,986)    (69,400)
  Cash paid for companies acquired, net of cash
     received.............................................    (39,227)    (95,952)     (8,909)
  Cost of investments acquired............................   (505,099)   (292,926)   (244,586)
  Purchases of property and equipment and other...........     (5,782)    (12,283)     (9,535)
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
       Cash used by investing activities..................   (190,063)   (233,257)   (125,142)
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from notes payable, net of costs...............     76,000     174,058      26,700
  Sale of common stock, net of costs......................     11,207     192,831      17,235
  Payments on notes payable...............................    (31,969)   (222,116)    (57,042)
  Dividends paid and other, net...........................    (16,882)    (14,356)    (12,409)
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
       Cash provided (used) by financing activities.......     38,356     130,417     (25,516)
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
       Net change in cash.................................     23,415       2,900     (12,834)
       Cash as of beginning of year.......................     16,891      13,991      26,825
                                                            ---------   ---------   ---------
       Cash as of end of year.............................  $  40,306   $  16,891   $  13,991
                                                            =========   =========   =========
</Table>

                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                       F-6
<PAGE>

                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

(1)  GENERAL INFORMATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING POLICIES

     HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("we" or "our"), include
domestic and foreign property and casualty and life insurance companies,
underwriting agencies and intermediaries. Through our subsidiaries, we provide
specialized property and casualty and life and health insurance to commercial
customers in the areas of group life, accident and health, aviation, our London
market account (which includes energy, marine, property and some accident and
health), global financial products (which includes directors and officers
liability, errors and omissions, employment practices liability and surety) and
other specialty lines of insurance. Our principal insurance companies are
Houston Casualty Company in Houston, Texas, and London, England; HCC Life
Insurance Company in Houston, Texas; U.S. Specialty Insurance Company in
Houston, Texas; Avemco Insurance Company in Frederick, Maryland; and HCC Europe
in Madrid, Spain. Our underwriting agencies provide underwriting management and
claims servicing for insurance and reinsurance companies, in specialized lines
of business within the life, accident and health and property and casualty
insurance sectors. Our principal agencies are HCC Benefits Corporation in
Atlanta, Georgia, Costa Mesa, California, Wakefield, Massachusetts, Minneapolis,
Minnesota and Dallas, Texas; ASU International, LLC in Woburn, Massachusetts,
and London, England; HCC Global Financial Products, LLC in Farmington,
Connecticut, Barcelona, Spain and London, England; Dickson Manchester & Company
Limited in London, England; and Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc. in Mount
Kisco, New York. Effective January 1, 2001 and 2002, we consolidated the
operations of three and one of our agencies, respectively, with certain of our
insurance companies. Our intermediaries provide brokerage, consulting and other
intermediary services to insurance and reinsurance companies, commercial
customers and individuals in the same lines of business as the insurance
companies and underwriting agencies operate. Our principal intermediaries are
HCC Risk Management Corporation in Houston, Texas; HCC Employee Benefits, Inc.
in Houston, Texas and Atlanta, Georgia; and Rattner Mackenzie Limited in London,
England. During 2001, we sold the last of our service operations. Our service
companies performed various insurance related services for insurance companies.

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States requires us to make
estimates and assumptions. This affects amounts reported in our financial
statements and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

     A description of the significant accounting and reporting policies we
utilize in preparing our consolidated financial statements is as follows:

  Principles of Consolidation

     Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all our
subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation.

  Investments

     Fixed income securities and marketable equity securities are classified as
available for sale and are carried at quoted market value, if readily
marketable, or at management's estimated fair value, if not readily marketable.
The change in unrealized gain or loss with respect to these securities is
recorded as a component of other comprehensive income, net of the related
deferred income tax effects, if any. Fixed income securities available for sale
are purchased with the original intent to hold to maturity, but they may be
available for sale if market conditions warrant, or if our investment policies
dictate, in order to maximize our investment yield. Short-term investments and
restricted short-term investments are carried at cost, which approximates market
value.

                                       F-7
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     For the asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities portion of the fixed
income portfolio, we recognize income using a constant effective yield based on
anticipated prepayments and the estimated economic life of the securities. When
actual prepayments differ significantly from anticipated prepayments, the
estimated economic life is recalculated and the remaining unamortized premium or
discount is amortized prospectively over the remaining economic life. Some of
our asset-backed securities are subject to re-evaluation and additional
specialized impairment tests. Under this guidance, these securities have to be
written down in value if certain tests are met. Any write down is recouped
prospectively through net investment income, if contractual cash flows are
ultimately received. The total amount of securities held by us as of December
31, 2002 that would be subject to these tests and potential write down is $9.4
million.

     The realized gain or loss on investment transactions is determined on an
average cost basis and included in earnings on the trade date. When impairment
of the value of an investment is considered other than temporary, the decrease
in value is reported in earnings as a realized investment loss and a new cost
basis is established.

  Property and Equipment

     Property and equipment are carried at cost, net of accumulated depreciation
and included in other assets on our consolidated balance sheets. Depreciation
expense is provided using the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives of the related assets. Amortization of leasehold improvements is provided
using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful life or
the term of the respective lease. Costs incurred in developing or purchasing
management information systems are capitalized and included in property and
equipment. These costs are amortized over their estimated useful lives from the
dates the systems are placed in service. Upon disposal of assets, the cost and
related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and the resulting
gain or loss is included in earnings. Estimated useful lines of major classes of
our property and equipment are as follows: buildings and improvements 30-45
years; furniture, fixtures and equipment 3-20 years; management information
systems 3-10 years. Depreciation of property and equipment was approximately
$7.5 million, $7.0 million and $6.9 million for the years ended December 31,
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

     We review the carrying value of all long-lived assets, including property
and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortization, if the facts and
circumstances suggest they may be impaired. If this review indicates that the
carrying value will not be recoverable, as determined based on projected
undiscounted future cash flows, the carrying value is reduced to its estimated
fair value, which is then depreciated or amortized over the remaining useful
life, as indicated during the review.

  Earned Premium, Policy Acquisition Costs and Ceding Commissions

     All of the property and casualty policies written by our insurance
companies qualify as short-duration contracts as defined by current accounting
literature. Written premium, net of reinsurance, is primarily included in
earnings on a pro rata basis over the lives of the related policies. However,
for certain types of business, it is recognized over the period of risk in
proportion to the amount of insurance risk provided. Policy acquisition costs,
including commissions, taxes, fees and other direct costs of underwriting
policies, less ceding commissions allowed by reinsurers, including expense
allowances, are deferred and charged or credited to earnings proportionate to
the premium earned. Historical and current loss and loss adjustment expense
experience and anticipated investment income are considered in determining
premium deficiencies and the recoverability of deferred policy acquisition
costs.

                                       F-8
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

  Management Fees and Commission Income

     When there is no significant future servicing obligation, management fees
and commission income from our underwriting agencies and intermediaries,
respectively, are recognized on the revenue recognition date, which is the later
of the effective date of policy, the date when the premium can be reasonably
established, or the date when substantially all the services relating to the
insurance placement have been rendered to the client. Profit commissions based
upon the profitability of business written are recorded as revenue at the end of
each accounting period based upon the respective formula calculation. Such
amounts are adjusted should experience change. When additional services are
required, the service revenue is deferred and recognized over the service
period. We also record an allowance for estimated return commissions which may
be required to be paid upon the early termination of policies.

     Effective January 1, 2000, we changed certain of our revenue recognition
methods for our agencies and intermediaries to agree with guidance contained in
Securities and Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 entitled
"Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements". Previously, our agencies and
intermediaries recognized revenue in conformity with principles that
historically had been considered generally accepted accounting principles for
insurance agents and brokers. We had recognized return commissions when the
event occurred that caused the return and accrued a liability for future
servicing costs, when significant, instead of deferring revenue. The after-tax
cumulative non-cash charge resulting from the adoption of Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 101 was $2.0 million.

  Other Operating Income

     Historically, we have had two primary sources of other operating income,
which is included in our other operations segment. The first source is a variety
of insurance related services, principally claims adjusting services. This
source is not expected to be significant in future years as our last remaining
service subsidiary was sold in September, 2001. These revenues were recorded
when the service was performed. The second source is income from and gains or
losses from the disposition of investments made in this segment. These
investments principally consist of positions in insurance related businesses
which are synergistic to our business. Income from these investments is
recognized as earned or utilizing the equity basis of accounting if the
investment qualifies and the gains or losses from the sale of investments are
recognized upon consummation of a sale transaction. More recently there has also
been a small portfolio of marketable equity securities that have been designated
trading securities and included in other assets on our consolidated balance
sheets. Realized gains and losses, unrealized gains and losses and dividend
income on these trading securities are all included in other operating income.

  Premium and Other Receivables

     We use the gross method for reporting receivables and payables on brokered
transactions. We review the collectibility of our receivables on a current basis
and provide an allowance for doubtful accounts if we deem that there are
accounts which are doubtful of collection. The amount of the allowance as of
December 31, 2002 and 2001 was $2.3 million and $2.8 million, respectively. Our
estimate of the level of the allowance could change as conditions change in the
future.

  Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Payable

     Loss and loss adjustment expense payable by our insurance companies is
based on estimates of payments to be made for reported losses, incurred but not
reported losses and anticipated receipts from salvage and subrogation. Reserves
are recorded on an undiscounted basis, except for reserves acquired in
transactions recorded using the purchase method of accounting. The discount on
those reserves is not material. Estimates for reported losses are based on all
available information, including reports received from ceding companies on
                                       F-9
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

assumed business. Estimates for incurred but not reported losses are based both
on our experience and the industry's experience. While we believe that amounts
included in our financial statements are adequate, such estimates may be more or
less than the amounts ultimately paid when the claims are settled. We
continually review the estimates with our actuaries and any changes are
reflected in the period of the change.

  Reinsurance

     We record all reinsurance recoverables and ceded unearned premiums as
assets and deferred ceding commissions as a liability. All such amounts are
recorded in a manner consistent with the underlying reinsured contracts. We also
record a reserve for uncollectible reinsurance. Our estimates utilized to
calculate the reserve are subject to change and this could affect the level of
the reserve required.

  Goodwill and Intangible Assets

     In connection with our acquisition of subsidiaries prior to July 1, 2001,
accounted for as purchases, the excess of cost over fair value of net assets
acquired was being amortized using the straight-line method over periods from
twenty to forty years. This amortization was discontinued effective December 31,
2001 in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No.
142 entitled "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." Goodwill resulting from
acquisitions completed on or after July 1, 2001 was also not being amortized in
accordance with SFAS No. 142. See Note (2) for the effects of these changes.
Other identified intangible assets are amortized over their respective useful
lives.

     Prior to our adoption of SFAS No. 142, our accounting policy regarding the
assessment of the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill was to review
the carrying value of the assets if the facts and circumstances suggested that
it might be impaired. If this review indicated that the carrying value would not
be recoverable, as determined based on projected undiscounted future cash flows,
the carrying value was reduced to its estimated fair value.

     With our adoption of SFAS No. 142, beginning January 1, 2002, we assess the
impairment of goodwill annually or sooner if an event occurs or circumstances
change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit
below its carrying amount. In determining the fair value of a reporting unit, we
utilize the expected cash flow approach as set forth in FASB Concepts Statement
No. 7. This approach utilizes a risk-free rate of interest, estimates of future
cash flows and probabilities as to the occurrence of the future cash flows. We
utilize our budgets and projection of future operations based upon historical
and expected industry trends to estimate our future cash flows and the
probability of their occurring as projected. Based upon our last impairment
test, the fair value of each of our reporting units exceeded its carrying amount
by a substantial margin.

  Cash and Short-term Investments

     Cash consists of cash in banks, generally in operating accounts. We
classify certificates of deposit, corporate demand notes receivable, commercial
paper and money market funds as short-term investments. Short-term investments
are classified as investments in our consolidated balance sheets as they relate
principally to our investment activities.

     As of December 31, 2002 and 2001 we included $175.7 million and $189.2
million, respectively, of certain fiduciary funds in short-term investments.
These are funds held by underwriting agencies or intermediaries for the benefit
of insurance or reinsurance clients. We earn the interest on these funds.

     We generally maintain our cash deposits in major banks and invest our
short-term investments in institutional money-market funds and in investment
grade commercial paper and repurchase agreements.

                                       F-10
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

These securities typically mature within ninety days and, therefore, bear
minimal risk. We have not experienced any losses on our cash deposits or our
short-term investments.

  Restricted Cash and Cash Investments

     Our agencies withhold premium funds for the payment of claims. These funds
are shown as restricted cash and cash investments in our consolidated balance
sheets. The corresponding liability is included within premium and claims
payable in our consolidated balance sheets. These amounts are considered
fiduciary funds and interest earned on these funds accrues to the benefit of the
insurance companies for whom the agencies write business. Therefore, we do not
include these amounts as cash in our consolidated statements of cash flows.

  Foreign Currency

     The functional currency of some of our foreign subsidiaries and branches is
the U.S. dollar. Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies are
translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet
date. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange
in effect on the date the transaction occurs. Transaction gains and losses are
recorded in earnings and included in other operating expenses. Our foreign
currency transactions are principally denominated in British pound sterling and
the Euro. For the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, the gain (loss)
from currency conversion was $1.2 million, $0.3 million and $(0.3) million,
respectively.

     A foreign branch of one subsidiary has a functional currency of Canadian
dollars. Recent acquisitions have added subsidiaries with functional currencies
of the Euro and British pound sterling. The cumulative translation adjustment,
representing the effect of translating these subsidiaries' assets and
liabilities into U.S. dollars, is included in the foreign currency translation
adjustment within accumulated other comprehensive income.

     We periodically enter into foreign exchange forward contracts as a hedge
against future cash flows payable in foreign currencies. To the extent the
foreign exchange forward contracts qualify for cash flow hedge accounting
treatment, the gain or loss due to changes in fair value is not recognized in
our statement of earnings until realized, at which time the gain or loss is
recognized along with the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item. To the
extent the foreign currency forward contracts do not qualify for cash flow hedge
accounting treatment, the gain or loss due to changes in fair value is
recognized in our consolidated statements of earnings, but is generally offset
by changes in value of the underlying exposure.

  Income Tax

     We file a consolidated Federal income tax return and include the foreign
subsidiaries' income to the extent required by law. Deferred income tax is
accounted for using the liability method, which reflects the tax impact of
temporary differences between the bases of assets and liabilities for financial
reporting purposes and such bases as measured by tax laws and regulations. Due
to our history of earnings, expectations for future earnings, and taxable income
in carry back years, we expect to be able to fully realize the benefit of any
net deferred tax asset.

  Earnings Per Share

     Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding during the year divided into net earnings. Diluted earnings
per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
plus the potential common shares outstanding during the year divided into net
earnings. Outstanding common stock options, when dilutive, are considered to be
potential common stock for

                                       F-11
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

the purpose of the diluted calculation. The treasury stock method is used to
calculate potential common stock outstanding due to options. Contingent shares
to be issued are included in the earnings per share computation when the
underlying conditions for issuance have been met.

  Stock Options

     We account for stock options granted to employees using the intrinsic value
method of APB Opinion No. 25 entitled "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees". All options have been granted at fixed exercise prices at the market
price of our common stock at the grant date. Because of that, no stock-based
employee compensation cost is reflected in our reported net income. Options vest
over a period of up to seven years and expire four to ten years after grant
date. The following table illustrates the effects on net income and earnings per
share (and related assumptions) if we had used the fair value method of SFAS No.
123 entitled "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" for the three years ended
December 31, 2002:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           2002      2001      2000
                                                         --------   -------   -------
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>       <C>
Reported net earnings..................................  $105,828   $30,197   $55,468
Stock-based compensation using the fair value method,
  net of income tax....................................    (6,159)   (4,426)   (4,689)
                                                         --------   -------   -------
Pro forma net earnings.................................  $ 99,669   $25,771   $50,779
                                                         ========   =======   =======
Reported basic earnings per share......................  $   1.70   $  0.52   $  1.09
Fair value stock-based compensation....................     (0.10)    (0.08)    (0.09)
                                                         --------   -------   -------
Pro forma basic earnings per share.....................  $   1.60   $  0.44   $  1.00
                                                         ========   =======   =======
Reported diluted earnings per share....................  $   1.68   $  0.51   $  1.07
Fair value stock-based compensation....................     (0.10)    (0.08)    (0.09)
                                                         --------   -------   -------
Pro forma diluted earnings per share...................  $   1.58   $  0.43   $  0.98
                                                         ========   =======   =======
</Table>

     For the purposes of the above presentation, we estimate the fair value of
each option grant on the grant date using the Black-Scholes single option
pricing model. The table below average fair value of options granted for the
three years ended December 31, 2002 and the related assumptions used in the
model:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         2002        2001        2000
                                                       --------    --------    --------
<S>                                                    <C>         <C>         <C>
Fair value of options granted........................  $   7.05    $   7.66    $   4.51
Risk free interest rate..............................       3.5%        4.4%        6.4%
Expected volatility factor...........................        .3          .3          .3
Dividend yield.......................................      1.14%       0.91%       0.89%
Expected option life.................................   5 years     5 years     4 years
</Table>

  Guarantee Fund and Other Assessments

     Certain of our insurance companies are subject to guarantee fund and other
assessments in states where we are licensed. In some cases, the states allow for
recoveries of assessments as premium tax offsets, but only over a period of
years. We generally accrue the liability when an insolvency or other event
occurs that indicates a liability exists and the premium on which the assessment
will be based has been written. We recognize an asset for the premium tax offset
based on in-force policies. During the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and
2000, we incurred a net expense for guarantee fund and other assessments of $4.7
million, $4.5 million, and $1.0 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2002
and 2001, accrued guarantee fund and

                                       F-12
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

other assessments were $3.3 million and $2.2 million, respectively, and
recognized future premium tax offsets were $0.9 million and $0.8 million,
respectively.

  Effects of Recent Accounting Pronouncements

     SFAS No. 146 entitled "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
Disposal Activities" was issued in July, 2002 and will become effective for us
on January 1, 2003. SFAS No. 146 will spread out the reporting of expenses
related to restructurings and is a change to existing guidance. The commitment
to a plan to exit an activity or dispose of long-lived assets will no longer be
enough to record a one-time charge for most anticipated costs. Instead,
companies will record exit or disposal costs when they are incurred and can be
measured at fair value and the liability will be subsequently adjusted for
changes in estimated cash flow. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 146 to
have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash
flows.

     Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation ("FIN") No. 45 entitled
"Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others . . ." was issued on November 25,
2002. The provision for initial recognition and measurement are effective on a
prospective basis for guarantees that are issued or modified after December 31,
2002 and disclosure requirements were effective for periods ending after
December 15, 2002. We have complied with the disclosure requirements in these
financial statements and do not believe that the recognition and measurement
provisions will have a material effect on our financial position, result of
operations or cash flows.

     FIN No. 46 entitled "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities", which is
an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 entitled "Consolidated
Financial Statements" addresses consolidation by business enterprises of
variable interest entities which have certain characteristics. FIN No. 46
requires consolidation of a qualifying variable interest entity when a party has
a controlling financial interest regardless of whether or not the party has a
majority voting interest. FIN No. 46 is immediately effective for qualifying
variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003 and applicable to such
entities created prior to February 1, 2003 by the end of our third fiscal
quarter in 2003. We are currently studying FIN No. 46 for applicability to us.
At the present time we believe FIN No. 46 will only be applicable to one entity
in which we have an investment. We invested in a partnership, which owns a
building which is rented to unaffiliated parties, as a long term investment. The
partnership is not material to our financial position, results of operations or
cash flows. We have a maximum exposure to loss of $14.1 million with respect to
this entity as a result of our investment and our guarantee of the partnership's
debt.

     Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 00-21 entitled "Revenue
Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables" is effective for revenue arrangements
entered into in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003 or alternatively
can be applied retroactively. EITF Issue No. 00-21 addressed how to determine
whether an arrangement involving multiple deliverables contains more than one
unit of accounting. EITF Issue No. 00-21 also addresses how arrangement
consideration should be measured and allocated to the separate units of
accounting in the arrangement. We do not believe that this EITF Issue No. 00-21
will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or
cash flows as the issues in EITF Issue No. 00-21 have been previously addressed
when we adopted Securities and Exchange Commissions' Staff Accounting Bulletin
101.

  Unusual Loss Events

     During 2001, we experienced three significant gross losses. The first loss
was the September 11 terrorist attack which produced the largest loss to our
insurance company operations in our history. We recorded gross and net loss
reserves of $141.0 million and $35.0 million, respectively. The other two losses
were the Petrobras (Brazilian offshore energy production platform) and Total
(chemical factory near Toulouse, France) incidents, which produced gross losses
of $55.0 million and $49.0 million, respectively. Because these two
                                       F-13
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

losses were substantially reinsured, the net losses were not material to our
results of operations. The Petrobras loss was paid during 2001 and the Total
loss was paid during 2002. All reinsurance recoverables related to both losses
have been collected.

  Other Information

     During 2001, we recorded a charge totaling $37.3 million related to lines
of business that we decided to cease writing, mainly our primary workers'
compensation line of business. The composition of this charge is $18.8 million
for loss and loss adjustment expense, $2.2 million for net policy acquisition
costs and $16.3 million for other operating expense. Included in other operating
expense is $15.0 million related to the impairment of goodwill. The fair value
of this line of business was calculated based upon the present value of future
expected cash flows.

  Reclassifications

     Certain amounts in the 2001 and 2000 consolidated financial statements have
been reclassified to conform with the 2002 presentation. Such reclassifications
had no effect on our shareholders' equity, net earnings or cash flows.

(2)  GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

     SFAS No. 142 entitled "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" was issued in
June, 2001, and became effective for us on January 1, 2002. SFAS No. 142
requires goodwill to be tested for impairment at a level referred to as a
reporting unit. After the initial adoption, goodwill of a reporting unit will be
tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event
occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair
value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. SFAS No. 142 also requires
the discontinuance of the amortization of goodwill effective January 1, 2002 and
that goodwill recognized for acquisitions which were consummated after July 1,
2001 not be amortized. During 2002 we determined our reporting units and
completed our initial and first annual goodwill impairment testing and
determined we did not have to record an impairment charge.

                                       F-14
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     The tables below reconcile net earnings and earnings per share we reported
for the three years ended December 31, 2002 to adjusted amounts that we would
have reported had we adopted SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2000 instead of January
1, 2002:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           2002      2001      2000
                                                         --------   -------   -------
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>       <C>
Net earnings:
  Reported net earnings................................  $105,828   $30,197   $55,468
  Add back goodwill amortization.......................        --    11,924    12,606
  Add back license amortization........................        --       555       317
  Less tax benefit from goodwill amortization..........        --    (1,092)   (1,089)
                                                         --------   -------   -------
     ADJUSTED NET EARNINGS.............................  $105,828   $41,584   $67,302
                                                         ========   =======   =======
Basic earnings per share:
  Reported basic earnings per share....................  $   1.70   $  0.52   $  1.09
  Add back amortization, net of tax effect.............        --      0.19      0.24
                                                         --------   -------   -------
     ADJUSTED BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE.................  $   1.70   $  0.71   $  1.33
                                                         ========   =======   =======
Diluted earnings per share:
  Reported diluted earnings per share..................  $   1.68   $  0.51   $  1.07
  Add back amortization, net of tax effect.............        --      0.19      0.23
                                                         --------   -------   -------
     ADJUSTED BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE.................  $   1.68   $  0.70   $  1.30
                                                         ========   =======   =======
</Table>

     The following tables show the balances of our intangible assets, which are
included in other assets on our consolidated balance sheets:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2002      2001
                                                              -------   -------
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>
Intangible assets not subject to amortization -- insurance
  company and other licenses................................  $ 6,792   $ 6,792
                                                              =======   =======
Intangible assets subject to amortization:
  Gross amounts recorded....................................  $12,080   $10,231
  Less accumulated amortization.............................   (4,074)     (722)
                                                              -------   -------
     NET INTANGIBLE ASSETS SUBJECT TO AMORTIZATION..........  $ 8,006   $ 9,509
                                                              =======   =======
</Table>

     Amortization of intangible assets which are subject to amortization under
SFAS No. 142 amounted to $3.4 million, $0.5 million and $0.1 million for the
years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 respectively. Substantially all of
our intangible assets subject to amortization were acquired in our acquisitions
in 2001 and 2002. Estimated amortization expense for 2003 and future years is as
follows:

<Table>
<S>                                                           <C>
2003........................................................  $2,658
2004........................................................   1,841
2005........................................................   1,336
2006........................................................     730
2007........................................................     638
Thereafter..................................................     803
                                                              ------
          TOTAL ESTIMATED AMORTIZATION......................  $8,006
                                                              ======
</Table>

                                       F-15
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

(3)  ACQUISITIONS

     During 2001 and 2002, we completed several acquisitions. The acquired
companies are well known in their respective lines of business, having excellent
reputations and workforces with significant expertise. They were generally
acquired to diversify into new specialty lines of business or grow existing
lines of business. These business combinations have been recorded using the
purchase method of accounting. The results of operations of these businesses
have been included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on the
effective date of each transaction. The following table provides some additional
information on these transactions (our initial cash consideration includes our
out of pocket expenses):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                            GOODWILL
                                                                                         DEDUCTIBLE FOR
                                                         INITIAL CASH      GOODWILL        INCOME TAX
                                      EFFECTIVE DATE     CONSIDERATION    RECOGNIZED        PURPOSES
                                     -----------------   -------------   -------------   --------------
<S>                                  <C>                 <C>             <C>             <C>
Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc.  October 22, 2001    $63.0 million   $53.6 million      No
ASU International, LLC               October 30, 2001     29.2 million    23.7 million     Yes
HCC Global Financial Products, LLC
  (formerly MAG Global Financial
     Products)                       October 1, 2002       6.9 million              --     Yes
Dickson Manchester & Company
  Limited                            December 24, 2002    17.0 million    10.8 million      No
HCC Europe (formerly St. Paul
  Espana)                            December 31, 2002    18.9 million    10.8 million      No
</Table>

     The initial consideration given for Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc.
also included 0.3 million shares of our common stock. The value of our common
stock given as consideration was determined based on closing market price on the
day the acquisition was completed. In addition, we will pay up to a maximum of
$20.4 million with respect to one of the acquisitions made during 2001 if
certain earnings targets are reached through December 31, 2004. The purchase
agreements for two of the 2002 acquisitions have clauses requiring additional
consideration based on pre-tax earnings through September 30, 2007 for one and
December 31, 2005 for the other. Any contingent consideration paid will be
recorded as an increase to goodwill. We are still in the process of completing
the purchase price allocations for the 2002 acquisitions, as we are still
gathering some of the information needed to make the required calculations. Any
subsequent net adjustment will result in a change to recorded goodwill and,
additionally, in the case of the acquisition of HCC Europe, we have not yet
completed the final determination of the purchase price, which will be based
upon an agreed-upon final closing date balance sheet as per the stock purchase
agreement.

                                       F-16
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     The following table summarizes the combined estimated fair values of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed at the respective dates of acquisition:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2002       2001
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Total investments...........................................  $131,280   $ 47,650
Premium and other receivables...............................    46,232     30,506
Reinsurance recoverables....................................     3,676         --
Other policy related assets.................................     5,808         --
Goodwill and intangible assets..............................    23,816     83,957
All other assets............................................     6,937     33,710
                                                              --------   --------
          Total assets acquired.............................   217,749    195,823
Loss and loss adjustment expense payable....................    82,289         --
Premium and claims payable..................................    39,816     44,883
Other policy related liabilities............................    37,419         --
Notes payable...............................................     3,530     12,735
All other liabilities.......................................    11,813     37,724
                                                              --------   --------
          Total liabilities.................................   174,867     95,342
                                                              --------   --------
          Net assets acquired...............................  $ 42,882   $100,481
                                                              ========   ========
</Table>

     Currently identified intangible assets from the 2002 acquisitions consisted
of employment and non-compete agreements with an assigned value of $1.9 million
with a five year average amortization period. We are still in the process of
completing the purchase price allocations for the 2002 acquisitions, as we are
still gathering some of the information needed to make the required calculation.
It is probable that additional identified intangible assets will be recorded
during completion of this process.

     The following unaudited pro forma summary presents information as if the
purchase acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of 2002 and 2001, after
giving effect to certain adjustments, including amortization of goodwill (for
2001 pro forma only) and intangible assets, increased interest expense from debt
issued to fund the acquisitions and income taxes. The pro forma summary is for
information purposes only, does not necessarily reflect the actual results that
would have occurred, nor is it necessarily indicative of future results of the
combined companies. During 2001, Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc. paid
approximately $33.0 million in bonuses to employees and related employment taxes
immediately prior to the completion of the acquisition. During 2002, HCC Europe
reported a net underwriting loss of approximately $16.7 million due to increases
in their loss reserves.

<Table>
<Caption>
UNAUDITED PROFORMA INFORMATION                                  2002       2001
- ------------------------------                                --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Revenue.....................................................  $731,468   $591,908
Net earnings................................................   102,960     13,318
Basic earnings per share....................................      1.65       0.23
Diluted earnings per share..................................      1.64       0.22
</Table>

                                       F-17
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

(4)  INVESTMENTS

     Substantially all of our fixed income securities are investment grade; 96%
are rated "A" or better. The cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized gain or
loss and estimated market value of investments in fixed income and marketable
equity securities, all of which are classified as available for sale, are as
follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                              COST OR      GROSS        GROSS      ESTIMATED
                                             AMORTIZED   UNREALIZED   UNREALIZED    MARKET
                                               COST         GAIN         LOSS        VALUE
                                             ---------   ----------   ----------   ---------
<S>                                          <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
December 31, 2002:
Marketable equity securities...............  $ 15,815     $     7      $  (213)    $ 15,609
US Treasury securities.....................    93,620       2,935           (9)      96,546
Obligations of states, municipalities and
  political subdivisions...................   246,364      13,205         (101)     259,468
Corporate fixed income securities..........   232,216      12,739         (679)     244,276
Asset-backed and mortgage-backed
  securities...............................   144,427       5,907         (461)     149,873
Foreign government securities..............    91,145         240           --       91,385
                                             --------     -------      -------     --------
          TOTAL SECURITIES.................  $823,587     $35,033      $(1,463)    $857,157
                                             ========     =======      =======     ========
December 31, 2001:
Marketable equity securities...............  $ 16,431     $   176      $   (38)    $ 16,569
US Treasury securities.....................    70,235       1,242         (109)      71,368
Obligations of states, municipalities and
  political subdivisions...................   200,790       5,513         (645)     205,658
Corporate fixed income securities..........   140,702       4,999         (416)     145,285
Asset-backed and mortgage-backed
  securities...............................    97,684       1,504         (560)      98,628
Foreign government securities..............     4,263         226           --        4,489
                                             --------     -------      -------     --------
          TOTAL SECURITIES.................  $530,105     $13,660      $(1,768)    $541,997
                                             ========     =======      =======     ========
</Table>

     The amortized cost and estimated market value of fixed income securities at
December 31, 2002, by contractual maturity, are shown below. Expected maturities
may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to
call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. The
weighted average life of our asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities is five
years.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                          ESTIMATED
                                                              AMORTIZED    MARKET
                                                                COST        VALUE
                                                              ---------   ---------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
Due in 1 year or less.......................................  $ 65,851    $ 66,673
Due after 1 year through 5 years............................   315,474     326,561
Due after 5 years through 10 years..........................   128,883     135,984
Due after 10 years through 15 years.........................    76,966      82,488
Due after 15 years..........................................    76,171      79,969
                                                              --------    --------
  Securities with fixed maturities..........................   663,345     691,675
Asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities.................   144,427     149,873
                                                              --------    --------
       TOTAL FIXED INCOME SECURITIES........................  $807,772    $841,548
                                                              ========    ========
</Table>

                                       F-18
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     As of December 31, 2002, our insurance companies had deposited fixed income
securities with an amortized cost of approximately $32.0 million (market: $34.0
million) to meet the deposit requirements of various insurance departments.

     All investments in fixed income securities and other investments were
income producing for the twelve months preceding December 31, 2002, except for
one fixed income security valued at $0.5 million. The sources of net investment
income for the three years ended December 31, 2002, are detailed below:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           2002      2001      2000
                                                          -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Fixed income securities.................................  $31,773   $27,234   $22,074
Short-term investments..................................    6,801    12,789    18,085
Marketable equity securities............................      210       294        59
Other investments.......................................       12         4         4
                                                          -------   -------   -------
       Total investment income..........................   38,796    40,321    40,222
Investment expense......................................   (1,027)     (683)     (386)
                                                          -------   -------   -------
       NET INVESTMENT INCOME............................  $37,769   $39,638   $39,836
                                                          =======   =======   =======
</Table>

     Realized pre-tax gain (loss) on the sale or write down of investments is as
follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            GAIN     LOSS       NET
                                                           ------   -------   -------
<S>                                                        <C>      <C>       <C>
For the year ended December 31, 2002:
Fixed income securities..................................  $3,027   $(1,621)  $ 1,406
Marketable equity securities.............................     207      (312)     (105)
Other investments........................................     335    (1,183)     (848)
                                                           ------   -------   -------
          REALIZED GAIN (LOSS)...........................  $3,569   $(3,116)  $   453
                                                           ======   =======   =======
For the year ended December 31, 2001:
Fixed income securities..................................  $3,099   $(1,452)  $ 1,647
Marketable equity securities.............................   1,224    (1,848)     (624)
Other investments........................................     145      (775)     (630)
                                                           ------   -------   -------
          REALIZED GAIN (LOSS)...........................  $4,468   $(4,075)  $   393
                                                           ======   =======   =======
For the year ended December 31, 2000:
Fixed income securities..................................  $1,173   $  (970)  $   203
Marketable equity securities.............................     567    (6,195)   (5,628)
Other investments........................................     104        --       104
                                                           ------   -------   -------
          REALIZED GAIN (LOSS)...........................  $1,844   $(7,165)  $(5,321)
                                                           ======   =======   =======
</Table>

                                       F-19
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     Unrealized pre-tax net gains (losses) on investments for three years ended
December 31, 2002 are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            2002      2001     2000
                                                           -------   ------   -------
<S>                                                        <C>       <C>      <C>
Fixed income securities..................................  $22,022   $  731   $11,916
Marketable equity securities.............................     (344)   2,752       (91)
Other investments........................................      442     (442)       --
                                                           -------   ------   -------
          NET UNREALIZED INVESTMENT GAIN (LOSS)..........  $22,120   $3,041   $11,825
                                                           =======   ======   =======
</Table>

(5)  NOTES PAYABLE

     Notes payable as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 are shown in the table
below. The estimated fair value of our 2% convertible notes ($185.2 million and
$185.9 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively) is based on its
trading market value. For the remainder of our notes payable, the estimated fair
value is based on current rates offered to us for debt with similar terms and
conditions and approximates the carrying value at both balance sheet dates.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2002       2001
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
2% Convertible notes........................................  $172,451   $172,500
Revolving loan facility.....................................    53,000         --
Other debt..................................................     4,576      9,428
                                                              --------   --------
          TOTAL NOTES PAYABLE...............................  $230,027   $181,928
                                                              ========   ========
</Table>

     In a public offering on August 23, 2001, we issued an aggregate $172.5
million principal amount of 2% Convertible Notes due in 2021. Each $1 thousand
principal amount of notes is convertible into 31.25 shares of our common stock,
which represents an initial conversion price of $32.00 per share. The initial
conversion price is subject to change under certain conditions. Interest is to
be paid by us on March 1 and September 1 each year. Holders may surrender notes
for conversion into shares of our common stock in any calendar quarter if, as of
the last day of the preceding calendar quarter, the closing sale price of our
common stock for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive
trading days ending on the last trading day of the quarter is more than 120%
($38.40 per share) of the conversion price per share of our common stock on the
last trading day of the quarter. We can redeem the notes for cash at any time on
or after September 1, 2006. Holders of the notes may require us to repurchase
the notes on September 1, 2004, 2006, 2008, 2011 and 2016. If the holders
exercise this option, we may choose to pay the purchase price in cash, in shares
of our common stock, or a combination thereof. On September 1, 2002, the first
repurchase date of the notes, $49 thousand of the notes were tendered to us and
we repurchased them with cash. We paid $4.4 million in underwriting discounts
and expenses in connection with the offering, which were being amortized from
the issue date until September 1, 2002. We used the proceeds from this offering
to repay our remaining indebtedness under our bank facility, assist in financing
the recent acquisitions, make a $60.0 million capital contribution to our
insurance companies and for general corporate purposes.

     On December 17, 1999, we entered into a $300.0 million Revolving Loan
Facility with a group of banks. At our request, the amount available under the
facility was reduced to $200.0 million by an amendment on June 6, 2001. Interest
expense for 2001 includes a charge of $0.6 million related to the write off of
prepaid loan fees in connection with the amendment. We can borrow up to the
maximum allowed by the facility on a revolving basis until the facility expires
on December 17, 2004. The facility is collateralized in part by the pledge of
our insurance companies' stock and guarantees entered into by our underwriting
agencies and intermediaries. The facility agreement contains certain restrictive
covenants, which we believe are typical for

                                       F-20
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

similar financing arrangements. As of December 31, 2002 the weighted average
interest rate on the outstanding balance was 3.2%.

     At December 31, 2002, certain of our subsidiaries maintained revolving
lines of credit with a bank in the combined maximum amount of $26.8 million
available through December 17, 2004. Advances under the lines of credit are
limited to amounts required to fund draws, if any, on letters of credit issued
by the bank on behalf of the subsidiaries and short-term direct cash advances.
The lines of credit are collateralized by securities having an aggregate market
value of up to $33.5 million, the actual amount of collateral at any one time
being 125% of the aggregate amount outstanding. Interest on the lines is payable
at the bank's prime rate of interest (4.25% at December 31, 2002) for draws on
the letters of credit and prime less 1% on short-term cash advances. As of
December 31, 2002, letters of credit totaling $12.1 million had been issued to
insurance companies by the bank on behalf of our subsidiaries, with total
securities of $15.2 million collateralizing the lines.

(6)  INCOME TAX

     As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, we had current income taxes receivable of
$3.9 million and $15.5 million, respectively, included in other assets in the
consolidated balance sheets. The components of the income tax provision for the
three years ended December 31, 2002 are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           2002      2001      2000
                                                          -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Current.................................................  $48,111   $35,055   $26,948
Deferred................................................    9,240    (4,869)    8,919
                                                          -------   -------   -------
          TOTAL INCOME TAX PROVISION....................  $57,351   $30,186   $35,867
                                                          =======   =======   =======
</Table>

                                       F-21
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     The net deferred tax liability and asset are included in accounts payable
and accrued liabilities and other assets, respectively, in our consolidated
balance sheets. The composition of deferred tax assets and liabilities as of
December 31, 2002 and 2001, is as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2002      2001
                                                              --------   -------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Federal tax net operating loss carryforwards................  $  5,370   $10,117
State tax net operating loss carryforwards..................     5,671     5,464
Excess of financial unearned premium over tax...............     9,746     6,555
Effect of loss reserve discounting and salvage and
  subrogation accrual for tax...............................    10,544     9,897
Excess of financial accrued expenses over tax...............     1,960     4,918
Allowance for bad debts, not deductible for tax.............     3,346     2,788
Foreign branch net operating loss carryforwards.............     2,169     2,568
Valuation allowance.........................................   (11,547)  (10,435)
                                                              --------   -------
          Total assets......................................    27,259    31,872
Unrealized gain on increase in value of securities available
  for sale (shareholders' equity)...........................    12,170     3,717
Deferred policy acquisition costs, net of ceding
  commissions, deductible for tax...........................     4,653     2,256
Amortizable goodwill for tax................................    11,061     5,256
Property and equipment depreciation and other items.........     9,850     4,165
                                                              --------   -------
          Total liabilities.................................    37,734    15,394
                                                              --------   -------
          NET DEFERRED TAX ASSET (LIABILITY)................  $(10,475)  $16,478
                                                              ========   =======
</Table>

     Changes in the valuation allowance account applicable to deferred tax
assets result primarily from the acquisition and expiration of net operating
losses and other tax attributes related to acquired subsidiaries. The changes
for the three years ended December 31, 2002 are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           2002      2001      2000
                                                          -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Balance, beginning of year..............................  $10,435   $ 9,666   $12,091
Change during year......................................    1,112       769    (2,425)
                                                          -------   -------   -------
          BALANCE, END OF YEAR..........................  $11,547   $10,435   $ 9,666
                                                          =======   =======   =======
</Table>

     As of December 31, 2002, we have Federal tax net operating loss
carryforwards of approximately $14.7 million that will expire in varying amounts
through the year 2021. Future use of these carryforwards is subject to statutory
limitations due to prior changes of ownership. There are valuation allowances in
the amount of $4.3 million recorded with respect to these loss carryforwards
that would reduce goodwill if the carryforwards are realized. In addition, we
have approximately $6.8 million of Federal tax loss carryforwards, principally
from our foreign insurance companies that can be used only against future
taxable income of those entities. There are valuation allowances in the amount
of $0.3 million recorded with respect to these loss carryforwards that would be
credited to income if the carryforwards are realized. Based upon our history of
taxable income in our domestic insurance and other operations and our
projections of future taxable income in our domestic and foreign insurance
operations, we believe it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets
related to our loss carryforwards, for which there are no valuation allowances,
will be realized. We have various state tax net operating loss carryforwards for
which we have established valuation allowances of approximately $5.6 million
covering all of the related tax benefit.

                                       F-22
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     The following table summarizes the differences between our effective tax
rate for financial statement purposes and the Federal statutory rate for the
three years ended December 31, 2002:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           2002      2001      2000
                                                          -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Statutory tax rate......................................     35.0%     35.0%     35.0%
Federal tax at statutory rate...........................  $57,113   $21,134   $31,967
Nontaxable municipal bond interest and dividends
  received deduction....................................   (3,391)   (3,314)   (3,545)
Other non deductible expenses...........................      442       512       620
Non deductible goodwill amortization....................       --     7,781     2,497
State income taxes......................................    2,414     3,259     4,202
Foreign income taxes....................................    2,921     2,915     1,537
Foreign tax credit......................................   (2,597)   (2,968)   (1,826)
Other, net..............................................      449       867       415
                                                          -------   -------   -------
          INCOME TAX PROVISION..........................  $57,351   $30,186   $35,867
                                                          =======   =======   =======
          EFFECTIVE TAX RATE............................     35.1%     50.0%     39.3%
                                                          =======   =======   =======
</Table>

(7)  SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA

     We have classified our activities into four operating business segments
based upon services provided: 1) insurance company operations, 2) underwriting
agency operations, 3) intermediary operations, and 4) other operations. See Note
1 for a description of the services provided by and the principal subsidiaries
included in our insurance company, underwriting agency and intermediary
segments. Our other operations segment performed various insurance related
services and contains insurance related investments made from time to time.
During 2001, we sold the last of our service operations, which will result in a
decrease in other operating income in future years until additional investments,
which are contemplated, are made. Corporate includes general corporate
operations, and those minor operations not included in an operating segment.
Inter-segment revenue consists primarily of management fees of our underwriting
agency segment, commission income of our intermediary segment and service
revenue of our other operations charged to our insurance company segment on
business retained by our insurance companies. Inter-segment pricing (either flat
rate fees or as a percentage premium) approximates what is charged to unrelated
parties for similar services.

     The performance of each of our segments is evaluated by our management
based upon net earnings. Net earnings is calculated after tax and after all
corporate expense allocations, amortization of goodwill, interest expense on
debt incurred at the purchase date and intercompany eliminations have been
charged or credited to our individual segments. The following tables show
information by business segment and geographic location. Geographic location is
determined by physical location of our offices and does not represent the
location of insureds or reinsureds from whom the business was generated.

     Effective January 1, 2001 and 2002, we consolidated the operations of three
and one of our underwriting agencies, respectively, into the operations of our
insurance companies. Policies incepting on or after the effective dates, along
with associated expenses, will be reported in our insurance company segment. The
administration of all policies incepting before the effective dates, which are
now in run off, along with associated expenses, will continue to be reported in
our underwriting agency segment. This consolidation will affect the
comparability of segment information between periods.

     SFAS No. 142, which we adopted effective January 1, 2002, required the
discontinuance of the amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible
assets on a prospective basis. This will affect the

                                       F-23
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

comparability of certain segment information between periods. Pro forma segment
information is shown in the tables for the years ended December 31, 2001 and
2000, as if we had adopted SFAS No. 142 as of January 1, 2000.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                       INSURANCE   UNDERWRITING                    OTHER
                                        COMPANY       AGENCY      INTERMEDIARY   OPERATIONS   CORPORATE    TOTAL
                                       ---------   ------------   ------------   ----------   ---------   --------
<S>                                    <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>         <C>
For the year ended December 31,
  2002:
Revenue:
  Domestic..........................   $449,391      $ 75,653       $24,104        $4,874      $  616     $554,638
  Foreign...........................     91,796         4,487        18,461            --          --      114,744
  Inter-segment.....................         --        31,906           992            --          --       32,898
                                       --------      --------       -------        ------      ------     --------
       Total segment revenue........   $541,187      $112,046       $43,557        $4,874      $  616      702,280
                                       ========      ========       =======        ======      ======
Inter-segment revenue...............                                                                       (32,898)
                                                                                                          --------
       CONSOLIDATED TOTAL REVENUE...                                                                      $669,382
                                                                                                          ========
Net earnings:
  Domestic..........................   $ 62,190      $ 23,180       $ 5,183        $3,052      $2,922     $ 96,527
  Foreign...........................      6,040         2,076         2,390            --          --       10,506
                                       --------      --------       -------        ------      ------     --------
       Total segment net earnings...   $ 68,230      $ 25,256       $ 7,573        $3,052      $2,922      107,033
                                       ========      ========       =======        ======      ======
Inter-segment eliminations..........                                                                        (1,205)
                                                                                                          --------
       CONSOLIDATED NET EARNINGS....                                                                      $105,828
                                                                                                          ========
Other items:
  Net investment income.............   $ 33,587      $  2,954       $   993        $   41      $  194     $ 37,769
  Depreciation and amortization.....      3,153         6,190           350            82       1,033       10,808
  Interest expense (benefit)........       (113)        7,767         2,575            --      (1,928)       8,301
  Capital expenditures..............      2,803         1,208         1,491            --         280        5,782
  Income tax provision..............     33,074        15,499         6,550         1,566       1,368       58,057
  Inter-segment eliminations........                                                                          (706)
                                                                                                          --------
     Consolidated income tax
       provision....................                                                                      $ 57,351
                                                                                                          ========
</Table>

     For 2002, earnings before income taxes was $144.3 million for our domestic
subsidiaries and $18.8 million for our foreign subsidiaries and branches.

                                       F-24
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                      INSURANCE   UNDERWRITING                    OTHER
                                       COMPANY       AGENCY      INTERMEDIARY   OPERATIONS   CORPORATE    TOTAL
                                      ---------   ------------   ------------   ----------   ---------   --------
<S>                                   <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>         <C>
For the year ended December 31,
  2001:
Revenue:
  Domestic..........................  $330,724      $64,848        $23,518       $14,885      $1,426     $435,401
  Foreign...........................    45,098        2,312         22,650            --          --       70,060
  Inter-segment.....................        --       22,619            491         1,967          --       25,077
                                      --------      -------        -------       -------      ------     --------
          Total segment revenue.....  $375,822      $89,779        $46,659       $16,852      $1,426      530,538
                                      ========      =======        =======       =======      ======
Inter-segment revenue...............                                                                      (25,077)
                                                                                                         --------
          CONSOLIDATED TOTAL
            REVENUE.................                                                                     $505,461
                                                                                                         ========
Net earnings (loss):
  Domestic..........................  $  1,020      $16,075        $ 4,382       $ 7,149      $ (979)    $ 27,647
  Foreign...........................    (3,923)       1,137          4,280            --          --        1,494
                                      --------      -------        -------       -------      ------     --------
          Total segment net earnings
            (loss)..................  $ (2,903)     $17,212        $ 8,662       $ 7,149      $ (979)      29,141
                                      ========      =======        =======       =======      ======
  Inter-segment eliminations........                                                                        1,056
                                                                                                         --------
          CONSOLIDATED NET
            EARNINGS................                                                                     $ 30,197
                                                                                                         ========
SFAS No. 142 pro forma adjustments:
  Net effect of goodwill and
     intangible asset
     amortization...................  $  2,142      $ 5,892        $ 3,353       $    --      $   --     $ 11,387
                                      --------      -------        -------       -------      ------     --------
  Pro forma segment net earnings
     (loss).........................  $   (761)     $23,104        $12,015       $ 7,149      $ (979)      40,528
                                      ========      =======        =======       =======      ======
  Inter-segment eliminations........                                                                        1,056
                                                                                                         --------
          PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED NET
            EARNINGS................                                                                     $ 41,584
                                                                                                         ========
Other items:
  Net investment income.............  $ 30,766      $ 5,202        $ 2,771       $    85      $  814     $ 39,638
  Depreciation, amortization and
     impairments....................    20,685        9,783          3,723           256         479       34,926
  Interest expense..................        37        5,198          3,534            15         100        8,884
  Capital expenditures..............     3,049        1,048          1,627           107       6,452       12,283
  Income tax provision..............     2,432       15,604          3,054         3,692       4,756       29,538
  Inter-segment eliminations........                                                                          648
                                                                                                         --------
     Consolidated income tax
       provision....................                                                                     $ 30,186
                                                                                                         ========
</Table>

     During 2001, our insurance company segment recorded two large unusual
items: 1) a $22.8 million (net of income tax) loss due to the terrorist attack
on September 11 and 2) a $29.4 million charge (net of income tax) related to
lines of business we decided to cease writing. Included in the latter amount,
was a $15.0 million charge for the impairment of goodwill, which was not
deductible for income tax purposes. Also during 2001, earnings (loss) before
income taxes was $60.4 million for our domestic subsidiaries and $(0.1) million
for our foreign subsidiaries and branches.

                                       F-25
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                       INSURANCE   UNDERWRITING                    OTHER
                                        COMPANY       AGENCY      INTERMEDIARY   OPERATIONS   CORPORATE    TOTAL
                                       ---------   ------------   ------------   ----------   ---------   --------
<S>                                    <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>         <C>
For the year ended December 31,
  2000:
Revenue:
  Domestic..........................   $276,240      $ 99,808       $31,525       $23,826      $ 1,035    $432,434
  Foreign...........................     15,054         4,446        21,669            --           --      41,169
  Inter-segment.....................         --        16,404           345         1,468           --      18,217
                                       --------      --------       -------       -------      -------    --------
          Total segment revenue.....   $291,294      $120,658       $53,539       $25,294      $ 1,035     491,820
                                       ========      ========       =======       =======      =======
Inter-segment revenue...............                                                                       (18,217)
                                                                                                          --------
          CONSOLIDATED TOTAL
            REVENUE.................                                                                      $473,603
                                                                                                          ========
Net earnings (loss):
  Domestic..........................   $ 27,289      $ 20,771       $ 9,846       $ 5,960      $(4,710)   $ 59,156
  Foreign...........................     (3,094)          672         1,366            --           --      (1,056)
                                       --------      --------       -------       -------      -------    --------
          Total segment net earnings
            (loss)..................   $ 24,195      $ 21,443       $11,212       $ 5,960      $(4,710)     58,100
                                       ========      ========       =======       =======      =======
  Inter-segment eliminations........                                                                          (619)
  Cumulative effect of accounting
     change.........................                                                                        (2,013)
                                                                                                          --------
          CONSOLIDATED NET
            EARNINGS................                                                                      $ 55,468
                                                                                                          ========
SFAS No. 142 pro forma adjustments:
  Net effect of goodwill and
     intangible asset
     amortization...................   $    597      $  7,687       $ 3,522       $    28      $    --    $ 11,834
                                       --------      --------       -------       -------      -------    --------
  Pro forma segment net earnings
     (loss).........................   $ 24,792      $ 29,130       $14,734       $ 5,988      $(4,710)     69,934
                                       ========      ========       =======       =======      =======
  Inter-segment eliminations........                                                                          (619)
  Cumulative effect of accounting
     change.........................                                                                        (2,013)
                                                                                                          --------
          PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED NET
            EARNINGS................                                                                      $ 67,302
                                                                                                          ========
Other items:
  Net investment income.............   $ 27,948      $  7,547       $ 3,335       $   476      $   530    $ 39,836
  Depreciation and amortization.....      3,662        11,926         3,567           385          368      19,908
  Interest expense..................        103         9,222         4,846             2        6,174      20,347
  Capital expenditures..............      3,124         4,651         1,082           219        1,074      10,150
  Income tax provision (benefit)....      8,308        20,900         6,402         3,578       (1,604)     37,584
  Inter-segment eliminations........                                                                          (382)
  Cumulative effect of accounting
     change.........................                                                                        (1,335)
                                                                                                          --------
     Consolidated income tax
       provision....................                                                                      $ 35,867
                                                                                                          ========
</Table>

     For 2000, earnings (loss) before income taxes was $92.7 million for our
domestic subsidiaries and $(1.4) million for our foreign subsidiaries and
branches.

                                       F-26
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     The following tables present revenue by line of business within each of our
operating segments for the three years ended December 31, 2002:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         2002       2001       2000
                                                       --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                    <C>        <C>        <C>
Insurance company:
  Group life, accident and health....................  $240,070   $143,851   $109,077
  Aviation...........................................   100,960     91,377     73,695
  London market account..............................    89,260     43,360     16,234
  Global financial products..........................    23,102          4         --
  Other specialty lines..............................    22,337     15,120     14,552
                                                       --------   --------   --------
                                                        475,729    293,712    213,558
  Discontinued lines.................................    29,792     49,075     54,089
                                                       --------   --------   --------
     TOTAL NET EARNED PREMIUM........................  $505,521   $342,787   $267,647
                                                       ========   ========   ========
Underwriting agency:
  Life, accident and health..........................  $ 44,615   $ 47,857   $ 70,536
  Property and casualty..............................    32,467     13,938     25,522
                                                       --------   --------   --------
     TOTAL MANAGEMENT FEES...........................  $ 77,082   $ 61,795   $ 96,058
                                                       ========   ========   ========
Intermediary:
  Life, accident and health..........................  $ 32,045   $ 33,739   $ 36,795
  Property and casualty..............................     9,527      9,673     13,091
                                                       --------   --------   --------
     TOTAL COMMISSION INCOME.........................  $ 41,572   $ 43,412   $ 49,886
                                                       ========   ========   ========
</Table>

     Assets by business segment and geographic location are shown in the
following tables:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                INSURANCE    UNDERWRITING                    OTHER
                                 COMPANY        AGENCY      INTERMEDIARY   OPERATIONS   CORPORATE     TOTAL
                                ----------   ------------   ------------   ----------   ---------   ----------
<S>                             <C>          <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>         <C>
December 31, 2002:
Domestic......................  $2,068,095     $651,786       $ 47,946       $5,925      $46,477    $2,820,229
Foreign.......................     445,692       61,078        377,152           --           --       883,922
                                ----------     --------       --------       ------      -------    ----------
  Total assets................  $2,513,787     $712,864       $425,098       $5,925      $46,477    $3,704,151
                                ==========     ========       ========       ======      =======    ==========
December 31, 2001:
Domestic......................  $1,696,823     $742,739       $ 75,162       $5,790      $32,875    $2,553,389
Foreign.......................     290,597       36,936        338,198           --           --       665,731
                                ----------     --------       --------       ------      -------    ----------
  Total assets................  $1,987,420     $779,675       $413,360       $5,790      $32,875    $3,219,120
                                ==========     ========       ========       ======      =======    ==========
</Table>

     The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the year end December
31, 2002 are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                          INSURANCE   UNDERWRITING
                                           COMPANY       AGENCY      INTERMEDIARY    TOTAL
                                          ---------   ------------   ------------   --------
<S>                                       <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>
Goodwill as of December 31, 2001........  $130,504      $107,598       $77,216      $315,318
Additions and other adjustments.........    13,700         5,985           285        19,970
                                          --------      --------       -------      --------
Goodwill as of December 31, 2002........  $144,204      $113,583       $77,501      $335,288
                                          ========      ========       =======      ========
</Table>

                                       F-27
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     We are still in the process of completing the purchase price allocations
for the 2002 acquisitions (see Note 2). Any subsequent net adjustment will
result in a change to recorded goodwill.

(8)  REINSURANCE

     In the normal course of business, our insurance companies cede a portion of
their premium to non-affiliated domestic and foreign reinsurers through treaty
and facultative reinsurance agreements. Although the ceding of reinsurance does
not discharge the primary insurer from liability to its policyholder, our
insurance companies participate in such agreements for the purpose of limiting
their loss exposure, protecting them against catastrophic loss and diversifying
their business. The following table represents the effect of such reinsurance
transactions on net premium and loss and loss adjustment expense:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                   LOSS AND LOSS
                                                            WRITTEN     EARNED      ADJUSTMENT
                                                            PREMIUM     PREMIUM       EXPENSE
                                                           ---------   ---------   -------------
<S>                                                        <C>         <C>         <C>
For the year ended December 31, 2002:
Direct business..........................................  $ 904,737   $ 801,851     $ 504,815
Reinsurance assumed......................................    254,512     229,287        99,437
Reinsurance ceded........................................   (613,338)   (525,617)     (297,761)
                                                           ---------   ---------     ---------
       NET AMOUNTS.......................................  $ 545,911   $ 505,521     $ 306,491
                                                           =========   =========     =========
For the year ended December 31, 2001:
Direct business..........................................  $ 783,124   $ 789,893     $ 612,455
Reinsurance assumed......................................    226,951     218,234       451,390
Reinsurance ceded........................................   (637,117)   (665,340)     (796,455)
                                                           ---------   ---------     ---------
       NET AMOUNTS.......................................  $ 372,958   $ 342,787     $ 267,390
                                                           =========   =========     =========
For the year ended December 31, 2000:
Direct business..........................................  $ 676,730   $ 663,458     $ 493,647
Reinsurance assumed......................................    290,727     311,137       279,999
Reinsurance ceded........................................   (683,669)   (706,948)     (575,176)
                                                           ---------   ---------     ---------
       NET AMOUNTS.......................................  $ 283,788   $ 267,647     $ 198,470
                                                           =========   =========     =========
</Table>

     Ceding commissions netted with policy acquisition costs in the consolidated
statements of earnings are $142.0 million, $185.2 million, and $214.7 million
for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

     The table below represents the composition of reinsurance recoverables in
our consolidated balance sheets:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2002       2001
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Reinsurance recoverable on paid losses......................  $108,104   $ 86,653
Reinsurance recoverable on outstanding losses...............   304,220    414,428
Reinsurance recoverable on incurred but not reported
  losses....................................................   393,752    403,223
Reserve for uncollectible reinsurance.......................    (7,142)    (5,176)
                                                              --------   --------
       TOTAL REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES.......................  $798,934   $899,128
                                                              ========   ========
</Table>

                                       F-28
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     Our insurance companies require reinsurers not authorized by their
respective states of domicile to collateralize their reinsurance obligations to
us. The table below shows amounts held by us as collateral plus other credits
available for potential offset as of December 31, 2002 and 2001:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2002       2001
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Payables to reinsurers......................................  $235,727   $199,581
Letters of credit...........................................   141,490    145,796
Cash deposits...............................................     9,384     14,851
                                                              --------   --------
       TOTAL CREDITS........................................  $386,601   $360,228
                                                              ========   ========
</Table>

     The tables below present the calculation of net reserves, net unearned
premium and net deferred policy acquisition costs as of December 31, 2002 and
2001:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                 2002         2001
                                                              ----------   ----------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
Loss and loss adjustment expense payable....................  $1,155,290   $1,130,748
Reinsurance recoverable on outstanding losses...............    (304,220)    (414,428)
Reinsurance recoverable on incurred but not reported
  losses....................................................    (393,752)    (403,223)
                                                              ----------   ----------
       NET RESERVES.........................................  $  457,318   $  313,097
                                                              ==========   ==========
Unearned premium............................................  $  331,050   $  179,530
Ceded unearned premium......................................    (164,224)     (71,140)
                                                              ----------   ----------
       NET UNEARNED PREMIUM.................................  $  166,826   $  108,390
                                                              ==========   ==========
Deferred policy acquisition costs...........................  $   68,846   $   32,071
Deferred ceding commissions.................................     (49,963)     (16,681)
                                                              ----------   ----------
       NET DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS................  $   18,883   $   15,390
                                                              ==========   ==========
</Table>

     In order to reduce our exposure to reinsurance credit risk, we evaluate the
financial condition of our reinsurers and place our reinsurance with a diverse
group of companies and syndicates, which we believe to be financially sound. The
following table shows reinsurance balances relating to our reinsurers with a net
recoverable balance greater than $15.0 million as of December 31, 2002 and 2001.
The total recoverables

                                       F-29
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

column includes paid loss recoverable, outstanding loss recoverable, incurred
but not reported loss recoverable and ceded unearned premium.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                               LETTERS OF CREDIT,
                                                                   TOTAL       CASH DEPOSITS AND
REINSURER                               RATING     LOCATION     RECOVERABLES     OTHER PAYABLES       NET
- ---------                               ------  --------------  ------------   ------------------   -------
<S>                                     <C>     <C>             <C>            <C>                  <C>
December 31, 2002:
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 1101.........  NR      United Kingdom    $40,450            $  258         $40,192
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 2488.........  A-      United Kingdom     31,640             1,998          29,642
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 1206.........  C+      United Kingdom     29,540                40          29,500
Odyssey American Reinsurance Corp.....  A       Connecticut        25,087               843          24,244
American Fidelity Assurance Company...  A+      Oklahoma           23,305                --          23,305
American Re-Insurance Company.........  A+      Delaware           19,797               229          19,568
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 0957.........  NR      United Kingdom     19,403                22          19,381
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 0033.........  A-      United Kingdom     19,277                62          19,215
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 0055.........  NR      United Kingdom     17,009                65          16,944
Canada Life Assurance Company.........  A+      Canada             16,900                96          16,804
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 0510.........  A-      United Kingdom     16,250               562          15,688
Transatlantic Reinsurance Company.....  A++     New York           17,288             1,771          15,517
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 0990.........  NR      United Kingdom     15,329                58          15,271

December 31, 2001:
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 1101.........  NR      United Kingdom    $40,913            $1,532         $39,381
Canada Life Assurance Company.........  A+      Canada             28,956                --          28,956
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 1206.........  C+      United Kingdom     27,251               351          26,900
AXA Corporate Solutions Reinsurance
  Co. ................................  A+      Delaware           26,582               680          25,902
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 2488.........  A-      United Kingdom     25,813             1,187          24,626
American Re-Insurance Company.........  A++     Delaware           24,674             1,697          22,977
SCOR Reinsurance Company..............  A       New York           21,883                --          21,883
American Fidelity Assurance Company...  A+      Oklahoma           19,881                12          19,869
Transatlantic Reinsurance Company.....  A++     New York           20,543               849          19,694
Federal Insurance Company.............  A++     Indiana            26,902             8,971          17,931
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 0957.........  NR      United Kingdom     17,653                --          17,653
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 0510.........  A-      United Kingdom     17,647             1,500          16,147
Lloyd's Syndicate Number 0055.........  NR      United Kingdom     16,168               305          15,863
</Table>

     Ratings for companies are published by A.M. Best Company, Inc. Ratings for
individual syndicates are published by Moody's Investors Services, Inc. "NR"
indicates that the indicated Lloyd's syndicate has not been rated. Lloyd's of
London is an insurance and reinsurance marketplace composed of many independent
underwriting syndicates financially supported by a central trust fund.

     HCC Life Insurance Company previously sold its entire block of individual
life insurance and annuity business to Life Reassurance Corporation of America
(rated A++ by A.M. Best Company, Inc.) in the form of an indemnity reinsurance
contract. Ceded life and annuity benefits amounted to $79.0 million and $83.0
million as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

                                       F-30
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     We have a reserve of $7.1 million as of December 31, 2002 for potential
collectibility issues and associated expenses related to reinsurance
recoverables. The adverse economic environment in the worldwide insurance
industry, the decline in the market value of investments in equity securities
and the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001 have placed great pressure on
reinsurers and the results of their operations. Ultimately, these conditions
could affect reinsurers' solvency. Historically, there have been insolvencies
following a period of competitive pricing in the industry. While we believe that
the reserve is adequate based on currently available information, conditions may
change or additional information might be obtained which may result in a future
change in the reserve. We periodically review our financial exposure to the
reinsurance market and the level of our reserve and continue to take actions in
an attempt to mitigate our exposure to possible loss.

     A number of reinsurers have delayed or suspended the payment of amounts
recoverable under certain reinsurance contracts to which we are a party. Such
delays have affected, although not materially to date, the investment income of
our insurance companies, but not to any extent their liquidity. We limit our
liquidity exposure by holding funds, letters of credit or other security such
that net balances due are significantly less than the gross balances shown in
our consolidated balance sheets. In some instances, the reinsurers have withheld
payment without reference to a substantive basis for the delay or suspension. In
other cases, the reinsurers have claimed they are not liable for payment to us
of all or part of the amounts due under the applicable reinsurance agreement. We
believe these claims are without merit and expect to collect the full amounts
recoverable. We are currently in negotiations with most of these parties, but if
such negotiations do not result in a satisfactory resolution of the matters in
question, we may seek or be involved in a judicial or arbitral determination of
these matters. In some cases, the final resolution of such disputes through
arbitration or litigation may extend over several years. In this regard, as of
December 31, 2002, our insurance companies had initiated two litigation
proceedings against reinsurers. As of such date, our insurance companies had an
aggregate amount of $5.8 million which had not been paid to us under the
agreements and we estimate that there could be up to an additional $10.7 million
of incurred losses and loss expenses and other balances due under the subject
agreements.

(9)  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

  Litigation

     In addition to the matters discussed in Note (8), Reinsurance, we are party
to numerous lawsuits and other proceedings that arise in the normal course of
our business. Many of such lawsuits and other proceedings involve claims under
policies that we underwrite as an insurer or reinsurer, the liabilities for
which, we believe have been adequately included in our loss reserves. Also, from
time to time, we are party to lawsuits and other proceedings which relate to
disputes over contractual relationships with third parties, or which involve
alleged errors and omissions on the part of our subsidiaries. In addition, we
are presently engaged in litigation initiated by the appointed liquidator of a
former reinsurer concerning payments made to us prior to the date of the
appointment of the liquidator. The disputed payments were made by the now
insolvent reinsurer in connection with a commutation agreement. Our
understanding is that such litigation is one of a number of similar actions
brought by the liquidator. We intend to vigorously contest the action. We
believe the resolution of any such lawsuits will not have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

     We have received substantial assessments from a state health insurance
association, which was established by the state to provide health insurance to
"high-risk" or otherwise uninsured individuals within that state. The expenses
of the association are currently funded principally through assessments on
insurers. With the current assessment, the association changed the calculation
method for the amount of the assessment, which resulted in a significant
increase in the amount of our assessment ($5.2 million). We and other insurers
are presently contesting the change in the assessment methodology. We believe we
will receive relief from the current assessment and that any amount we may
ultimately have to pay will not be material to

                                       F-31
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

our financial position and result of operations, after taking into consideration
credits we would receive against other taxes in the state.

  Foreign Currency Forward Contracts

     On a limited basis, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts as a
hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. Rattner Mackenzie Limited has
revenue streams in U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars but incurs expenses in
British pound sterling. To mitigate the foreign exchange risk, from time to time
we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts expiring at staggered
times. As of December 31, 2002, we had no foreign currency forward contracts
outstanding. The foreign currency forward contracts are used to convert currency
at a known rate in an amount which either approximates or is less than monthly
expenses. Thus, the effect of these transactions is to limit the foreign
currency exchange risk of the recurring monthly expenses. We utilize these
foreign currency forward contracts strictly as a cash flow hedge against
existing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations rather than as a form of
speculative or trading investment.

  Catastrophe Exposure

     We write business in areas exposed to catastrophic losses and have
significant exposures to this type of loss in California, the Atlantic Coast of
the United States, certain United States Gulf Coast states, particularly Florida
and Texas, the Caribbean and Mexico. We assess our overall exposures to a single
catastrophic event and apply procedures that we believe are more conservative
than are typically used by the industry to ascertain our probable maximum loss
from any single event. We maintain reinsurance protection which we believe is
sufficient to cover any foreseeable event.

  Leases

     We lease administrative office facilities under long-term non-cancelable
operating lease agreements expiring at various dates through the year 2010. In
addition to rent, the agreements generally require the payment of utilities,
real estate taxes, insurance and repairs. We recognize rent expense on a
straight-line basis over the terms of these leases. In addition, we lease
computer equipment and automobiles under operating leases expiring at various
dates through the year 2007. Rent expense under operating leases amounted to
$8.4 million, $7.1 million, and $7.3 million, for the years ended December 31,
2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

     At December 31, 2002, future minimum annual rental payments required under
long-term, non-cancelable operating leases, excluding certain expenses payable
by us, are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,                               AMOUNT DUE
- --------------------------------                               ----------
<S>                                                            <C>
  2003......................................................    $ 8,687
  2004......................................................      6,956
  2005......................................................      6,194
  2006......................................................      4,227
  2007......................................................      2,605
  Thereafter................................................      1,322
                                                                -------
TOTAL FUTURE MINIMUM ANNUAL RENTAL PAYMENTS DUE.............    $29,991
                                                                =======
</Table>

                                       F-32
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

  Loan Guarantee

     We guaranteed the mortgage debt of a partnership in which we are a limited
partner. The total amount of the loan is $11.1 million as of December 31, 2002.
We invested in the partnership, which owns a building which is rented to
unaffiliated parties, as a long-term investment.

  Indemnification

     We have sold businesses in the past. In connection with these sales, we
have provided indemnifications to the buyers, which we believe are typical for
transactions of this nature, based upon the type of business sold. Certain of
these indemnifications have no limit. It is not possible to estimate the maximum
potential amount under these indemnifications as our performance under the
indemnifications and our ultimate liability are based upon the occurrence of
future events which may or may not occur. We currently have a liability in the
amount of $6.2 million recorded for performance under one such indemnification.
This indemnification was given by a company we acquired, prior to its
acquisition, in connection with a sale of one of its subsidiaries.

  Terrorist Exposure

     Subsequent to the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001, where possible,
we canceled all terrorist coverage under the terms of existing in-force
policies, primarily in the property and energy book of the London market account
line of business. Our reinsurance protections in these books have been renewed
without coverage for acts of terrorism. We thus only have exposure on policies
that contained such coverage and are still in force. This exposure is
diminishing as these policies expire and with respect to some risks, would be
covered by the provisions of the Federal Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002.

     Under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, we are required to offer
terrorism coverage to our commercial policyholders in certain lines of business
written in the United States, for which we may, when warranted, charge an
additional premium. The policyholders may or may not accept such coverage. This
law also established a deductible that each insurer would have to meet before
U.S. Federal reimbursement would occur. For 2003, our deductible is
approximately $11.2 million based on 7% of 2002 subject premium as defined under
the applicable regulations. Thereafter, the Federal government would provide
reimbursement for 90% of our insured, covered insured losses up to the maximum
amount set out in the Act.

(10)  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     Certain of our Directors are officers, directors or owners of business
entities with which we transact business. Balances with these business entities
and other related parties included in our consolidated balance sheets are as
follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2002      2001
                                                              -------   ------
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>
Other investments...........................................  $ 3,264   $4,317
Premiums, claims and other receivables......................    1,189      776
Other assets................................................   18,252    2,807
</Table>

                                       F-33
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     Transactions with these business entities and other related parties
included in our consolidated statements of earnings are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             2002    2001     2000
                                                             -----   -----   -------
<S>                                                          <C>     <C>     <C>
Management fees............................................  $  91   $  58   $    --
Investment income..........................................     --      --       112
Net realized investment gain (loss)........................   (601)     53    (5,067)
Other operating income (loss)..............................    668    (508)       89
Other operating expense....................................     --      --       112
Interest expense...........................................    154     217        74
</Table>

     Additionally, we had $10.1 million and $15.7 million payable at December
31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, to former owners of businesses we have acquired
who are now officers of certain of our subsidiaries. Such payables represent
payments due under the terms of the acquisition agreements.

     We also have entered into an agreement with an entity owned by an officer
and Director, pursuant to which we rent equipment for providing transportation
services to our employees, our Directors and our clients. We provide our own
employees to operate the equipment and pay all expenses related to their
operation. For the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, we paid rentals
of $1.2 million, $1.0 million, and $0.6 million, respectively, to this entity.

(11)  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

     On March 6, 2001, we sold 6.9 million shares of our common stock in a
public offering at a price of $23.35 per share. Net proceeds from the offering
amounted to $152.4 million after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions
and offering expenses and were used to pay down our bank facility.

     Property and casualty insurance companies domiciled in the State of Texas
are limited in the payment of dividends to their shareholders in any
twelve-month period, without the prior written consent of the Commissioner of
Insurance, to the greater of statutory net income for the prior calendar year or
10% of their statutory policyholders' surplus as of the prior year end. During
2003, Houston Casualty Company's ordinary dividend capacity will be
approximately $40.0 million and U.S. Specialty Insurance Company's ordinary
dividend capacity will be approximately $11.0 million.

     Avemco Insurance Company is limited by the State of Maryland in the amount
of dividends which it may pay in any twelve-month period, without prior
regulatory approval, to the lesser of its statutory net investment income
excluding realized capital gains for the prior calendar year or 10% of its
statutory policyholders' surplus as of the prior year end. During 2003, Avemco
Insurance Company's ordinary dividend capacity will be zero as a result of a
special approved dividend paid in 2002.

     HCC Life Insurance Company is limited by the laws of the State of Indiana
in the amount of dividends it may pay in any twelve-month period, without prior
regulatory approval, to the greater of its statutory net gain from operations
for the prior calendar year or 10% of its statutory capital and surplus as of
the prior year end. Dividends may only be paid out of statutory unassigned
surplus funds. During 2003, HCC Life Insurance Company's ordinary dividend
capacity will be approximately $6.0 million.

                                       F-34
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

     The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are as
follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                     ACCUMULATED
                                                        UNREALIZED    UNREALIZED        OTHER
                                            FOREIGN        HEDGE      INVESTMENT    COMPREHENSIVE
                                           CURRENCY        GAIN          GAIN          INCOME
                                          TRANSLATION     (LOSS)        (LOSS)         (LOSS)
                                          -----------   -----------   -----------   -------------
<S>                                       <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Balance December 31, 1999...............     $(483)        $ --         $(2,209)      $ (2,692)
Net change for year.....................      (172)          --           7,577          7,405
                                             -----         ----         -------       --------
Balance December 31, 2000...............      (655)          --           5,368          4,713
Net change for year.....................      (279)          24           2,042          1,787
                                             -----         ----         -------       --------
Balance December 31, 2001...............      (934)          24           7,410          6,500
Net change for year.....................        50          (24)         14,239         14,265
                                             -----         ----         -------       --------
Balance December 31, 2002...............     $(884)        $ --         $21,649       $ 20,765
                                             =====         ====         =======       ========
</Table>

(12)  STOCK OPTIONS

     During 2001, we replaced all previous option plans with our 2001 Flexible
Incentive Plan for purposes of new option grants, which is administered by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Each option may be used to
purchase one share of our common stock. Options cannot be repriced under the
plan. As of December 31, 2002, 7.3 million shares of our common stock were
reserved for the exercise of options, of which 6.4 million shares were reserved
for options previously granted and 0.9 million shares were reserved for future
issuances of options.

     The following table provides an analysis of stock option activity during
the three years ended December 31, 2002:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                        2002                   2001                   2000
                                --------------------   --------------------   --------------------
                                            AVERAGE                AVERAGE                AVERAGE
                                 NUMBER     EXERCISE    NUMBER     EXERCISE    NUMBER     EXERCISE
                                OF SHARES    PRICE     OF SHARES    PRICE     OF SHARES    PRICE
                                ---------   --------   ---------   --------   ---------   --------
<S>                             <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>
Outstanding, beginning of
  year........................    3,305      $17.39      5,494      $15.54      5,470      $16.08
Granted at market value.......    4,116       22.45        797       24.54      1,745       13.59
Forfeitures and expirations...     (219)      19.84       (251)      17.73       (434)      18.32
Exercised.....................     (831)      14.01     (2,735)      15.68     (1,287)      14.34
                                  -----      ------     ------      ------     ------      ------
OUTSTANDING, END OF YEAR......    6,371      $20.99      3,305      $17.39      5,494      $15.54
                                  =====      ======     ======      ======     ======      ======
EXERCISABLE, END OF YEAR......    1,437      $17.81      1,100      $16.70      2,717      $16.59
                                  =====      ======     ======      ======     ======      ======
</Table>

     Options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2002 are shown on
the following schedule:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                            OPTIONS OUTSTANDING             OPTIONS EXERCISABLE
                                  ---------------------------------------   --------------------
                                                  AVERAGE        AVERAGE                AVERAGE
RANGE OF                          NUMBER OF      REMAINING       EXERCISE   NUMBER OF   EXERCISE
EXERCISE PRICES                    SHARES     CONTRACTUAL LIFE    PRICE      SHARES      PRICE
- ---------------                   ---------   ----------------   --------   ---------   --------
<S>                               <C>         <C>                <C>        <C>         <C>
Under $20.50....................    2,793        4.3 years        $17.30      1,003      $15.17
$20.50-$22.50...................    1,616        5.8 years         21.96        208       21.26
$22.51-$27.00...................    1,596        6.0 years         24.82        154       25.42
Over $27.00.....................      366        4.8 years         28.19         72       28.19
                                    -----        ---------        ------      -----      ------
  TOTAL OPTIONS.................    6,371        5.2 years        $20.99      1,437      $17.81
                                    =====        =========        ======      =====      ======
</Table>

                                       F-35
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

(13)  EARNINGS PER SHARE

     The following table provides reconciliation of the denominators used in the
earnings per share calculations for the three years ended December 31, 2002:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           2002      2001      2000
                                                         --------   -------   -------
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>       <C>
NET EARNINGS...........................................  $105,828   $30,197   $55,468
                                                         ========   =======   =======
Reconciliation of number of shares outstanding:
Shares of common stock outstanding at year end.........    62,358    61,438    51,342
Changes in common stock due to issuance................      (185)   (3,272)     (908)
Contingent shares to be issued.........................        --        --        39
Common stock contractually issuable in the future......        52       155       269
                                                         --------   -------   -------
  Weighted average common stock outstanding............    62,225    58,321    50,742
Additional dilutive effect of outstanding options (as
  determined by the application of the treasury stock
  method)..............................................       711     1,298       877
                                                         --------   -------   -------
  WEIGHTED AVERAGE COMMON STOCK AND POTENTIAL COMMON
     STOCK OUTSTANDING.................................    62,936    59,619    51,619
                                                         ========   =======   =======
Anti-dilutive shares not included in computation.......     1,105       187     1,500
                                                         ========   =======   =======
</Table>

(14)  STATUTORY INFORMATION

     Our insurance companies file financial statements prepared in accordance
with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by domestic or
foreign insurance regulatory authorities. The differences between statutory
financial statements and financial statements prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles vary between domestic and foreign
jurisdictions. The principal differences are that for statutory financial
statements deferred policy acquisition costs are not recognized, only some of
the deferred income tax assets are recorded, bonds are generally carried at
amortized cost, certain assets are non-admitted and charged directly to surplus,
a liability for a provision for reinsurance is recorded and charged directly to
surplus, and outstanding losses and unearned premium are presented net of
reinsurance. In addition, under statutory accounting rules, life insurance
companies recognize two investment related liabilities, the asset valuation
reserve and interest maintenance reserve. Statutory policyholders' surplus, and
net income for the three years ended December 31, 2002, after intercompany
eliminations, of our insurance companies included in those companies' respective
filings with regulatory authorities are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         2002       2001       2000
                                                       --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                    <C>        <C>        <C>
Statutory policyholders' surplus.....................  $523,807   $401,393   $326,249
Statutory net income.................................    68,462     16,555     13,749
</Table>

     Our statutory policyholders' surplus has been adversely affected by
statutory adjustments for reinsurance recoverables which, although required
statutorily, have no effect on net earnings or shareholders' equity in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our statutory net
income for 2001 has been reduced by $22.8 million (net of income tax) from the
September 11 terrorist attack and $8.1 million (net of income tax) from charges
related to lines of business we decided to cease writing.

     The National Association of Insurance Commissioners adopted Statements of
Statutory Accounting Principles in March, 1998, which became effective on
January 1, 2001, through their adoption by the individual states. The cumulative
effect of codification was to increase statutory policyholders' surplus of our
insurance companies by approximately $8.9 million. Our use of statutory
accounting practices prescribed by

                                       F-36
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

state regulatory authorities caused a $1.5 million increase in our insurance
companies' aggregate statutory policyholders' surplus as of December 31, 2002
compared to amounts that would have been recorded under the codification rules
of The National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The statutory surplus of
each of our insurance companies is significantly in excess of regulatory
risk-based capital requirements.

(15)  LIABILITY FOR UNPAID LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE

     The following table provides a reconciliation of the liability of loss and
loss adjustment expense for the three years ended December 31, 2002:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                       2002         2001        2000
                                                    ----------   ----------   --------
<S>                                                 <C>          <C>          <C>
Reserves for loss and loss adjustment expense at
  beginning of the year...........................  $1,130,748   $  944,117   $871,104
Less reinsurance recoverables.....................     817,651      694,245    597,498
                                                    ----------   ----------   --------
Net reserves at beginning of the year.............     313,097      249,872    273,606
Net reserve adjustments from acquisition and
  disposition of subsidiaries.....................      79,558          285        514
Incurred loss and loss adjustment expense:
  Provision for loss and loss adjustment expense
     for claims occurring in the current year.....     313,270      278,103    208,055
  Increase (decrease) in estimated loss and loss
     adjustment expense for claims occurring in
     prior years..................................      (6,779)     (10,713)    (9,585)
                                                    ----------   ----------   --------
Incurred loss and loss adjustment expense, net of
  reinsurance.....................................     306,491      267,390    198,470
                                                    ----------   ----------   --------
Loss and loss adjustment expense payments for
  claims occurring during:
  Current year....................................     115,809      102,206     76,725
  Prior years.....................................     126,019      102,244    145,993
                                                    ----------   ----------   --------
Loss and loss adjustment expense payments, net of
  reinsurance.....................................     241,828      204,450    222,718
                                                    ----------   ----------   --------
Net reserves at end of the year...................     457,318      313,097    249,872
Plus reinsurance recoverables.....................     697,972      817,651    694,245
                                                    ----------   ----------   --------
     RESERVES FOR LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE
       AT END OF THE YEAR.........................  $1,155,290   $1,130,748   $944,117
                                                    ==========   ==========   ========
</Table>

     During 2002, we had net loss and loss adjustment expense redundancy of $6.8
million relating to prior year losses compared to redundancies of $10.7 million
in 2001 and $9.6 million in 2000. The 2002 redundancy resulted from a deficiency
of $7.7 million due to a third quarter charge related to certain business
included in discontinued lines, offset by a net redundancy of $14.5 million from
all other sources. Deficiencies and redundancies in the reserves occur as we
continually review our loss reserves with our actuaries, increasing or reducing
loss reserves as a result of such reviews and as losses are finally settled and
claims exposures are reduced. We believe we have provided for all material net
incurred losses.

     We have no material exposure to environmental pollution losses, because
Houston Casualty Company only began writing business in 1981 and its policies
normally contain pollution exclusion clauses which limit

                                       F-37
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

pollution coverage to "sudden and accidental" losses only, thus excluding
intentional (dumping) and seepage claims. Policies issued by HCC Life Insurance
Company, Avemco Insurance Company and U.S. Specialty Insurance Company, because
of the types of risks covered, are not considered to have significant
environmental exposures. Therefore, we do not expect to experience any material
loss development for environmental pollution claims. Likewise, we have no
material exposure to asbestos claims.

(16)  SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION

     Supplemental cash flow information for the three years ended December 31,
2002, is summarized below:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           2002      2001      2000
                                                          -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Interest paid...........................................  $ 4,900   $ 7,980   $17,418
Income tax paid.........................................   22,642    28,411    11,859
Dividends declared but not paid at year end.............    4,061     3,848     3,557
</Table>

     The unrealized gain or loss on securities available for sale, deferred
taxes related thereto, and the issuance of our common stock for the purchase of
subsidiaries are non-cash transactions which have been included as direct
increases or decreases in our shareholders' equity. The cumulative effect of
accounting change due to our adoption of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101
during 2000 was a non-cash charge to our earnings.

(17)  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                          FOURTH QUARTER         THIRD QUARTER        SECOND QUARTER         FIRST QUARTER
                                        -------------------   -------------------   -------------------   -------------------
                                          2002       2001       2002       2001       2002       2001       2002       2001
                                        --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
<S>                                     <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Total revenue.........................  $186,089   $132,192   $175,672   $137,621   $155,912   $120,556   $151,709   $115,092
                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
Net earnings (loss)...................  $ 31,495   $ 23,837   $ 24,269   $(29,076)  $ 26,782   $ 20,258   $ 23,282   $ 15,178
                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
Basic earnings (loss) per share data:
Earnings (loss) per share.............  $   0.50   $   0.39   $   0.39   $  (0.49)  $   0.43   $   0.34   $   0.38   $   0.28
                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
Weighted average shares outstanding...    62,387     61,021     62,335     59,399     62,236     58,998     61,936     53,720
                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
Diluted earnings (loss) per share
  data:
Earnings (loss) per share.............  $   0.50   $   0.38   $   0.39   $  (0.49)  $   0.43   $   0.34   $   0.37   $   0.28
                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
Weighted average shares outstanding...    63,109     62,051     62,871     59,399     62,889     60,470     62,713     55,070
                                        ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========   ========
</Table>

     During the third quarter of 2001, we recorded two large unusual items: 1) a
$22.8 million (net of income tax) loss due to the terrorist attack on September
11; and 2) a $29.6 million charge (net of income tax) related to lines of
business we decided to cease writing. Included in the latter amount was a $15.0
million charge for the impairment of goodwill, which was not deductible for
income tax purposes. During the third quarter of 2002, we recorded a $5.0
million (net of income tax) charge to strengthen reserves related to certain
business included in discontinued lines. The sum of the quarters earnings (loss)
per share may not equal the annual amounts due to rounding.

(18)  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

     On March 25, 2003, we sold an aggregate of $125.0 million principal amount
of 1.3% Convertible Notes due in 2023 in a public offering. Each $1 thousand
principal amount of notes is convertible into 29.4377 shares of our common
stock, which represents an initial conversion price of $33.97 per share. Holders
may surrender notes for conversion into shares of our common stock if, as of the
last day of the preceding calendar quarter, the closing sale price of our common
stock for at least 20 consecutive trading days during the period of

                                       F-38
<PAGE>
                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of that quarter is
more than 130% ($44.16 per share) of the conversion price per share of our
common stock. Holders of the notes may require us to repurchase the notes on
April 1, 2009, 2014 and 2019. If the holders exercise this option, we may choose
to pay the purchase price in cash, in shares of our common stock, or in a
combination thereof. We plan to use the proceeds from this offering to pay down
existing indebtedness under our bank facility, assist in financing future
acquisitions and strategic investments and for general corporate purposes.

                                       F-39
<PAGE>

       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.:

     Our report on the consolidated financial statements of HCC Insurance
Holdings, Inc., which included an emphasis paragraph related to a change in
method of revenue recognition for certain contracts, effective January 1, 2000,
and a change in method of accounting for goodwill, effective January 1, 2002, is
included on page F-1 of this Form 10-K. In connection with our audits of such
financial statements, we have also audited the financial statement schedules
listed in Item 15 of this Form 10-K. These financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company's management.

     In our opinion, these financial statement schedules present fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Houston, Texas
March 21, 2003

                                       S-1
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 1

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                             SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS
                   OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
DECEMBER 31, 2002
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       COLUMN A                           COLUMN B    COLUMN C      COLUMN D
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                 AMOUNT AT WHICH
                                                                                  SHOWN IN THE
TYPE OF INVESTMENT                                          COST       VALUE      BALANCE SHEET
- ------------------                                       ----------   --------   ---------------
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>        <C>
Fixed maturities:
  Bonds -- United States government and government
     agencies and authorities..........................  $   93,620   $ 96,546     $   96,546
  Bonds -- states, municipalities and political
     subdivisions......................................      46,750     49,230         49,230
  Bonds -- special revenue.............................     199,614    210,238        210,238
  Bonds -- corporate...................................     232,216    244,276        244,276
  Asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities..........     144,427    149,873        149,873
  Bonds -- foreign government..........................      91,145     91,385         91,385
                                                         ----------   --------     ----------
       Total fixed maturities..........................     807,772   $841,548     $  841,548
                                                         ----------   --------     ----------
Equity securities:
  Common stocks -- banks, trusts and insurance
     companies.........................................      10,475   $ 10,482     $   10,482
  Common stocks -- industrial, miscellaneous and all
     other.............................................         212        121            121
  Non-redeemable preferred stocks......................       5,128      5,006          5,006
                                                         ----------   --------     ----------
       Total equity securities.........................      15,815   $ 15,609     $   15,609
                                                         ----------   ========     ----------
Short-term investments.................................     307,215                   307,215
Other investments......................................       3,264                     3,264
                                                         ----------                ----------
       TOTAL INVESTMENTS...............................  $1,134,066                $1,167,636
                                                         ==========                ==========
</Table>

                                       S-2
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 2

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                                 BALANCE SHEETS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------
                                                                 2002        2001
                                                              ----------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
                                      ASSETS
Cash........................................................  $       56   $  8,719
Short-term investments......................................       4,837      1,497
Investment in subsidiaries..................................     915,213    734,067
Receivable from subsidiaries................................      14,133     12,754
Intercompany loans to subsidiaries for acquisitions.........     190,187    190,167
Other assets................................................       1,581      5,732
                                                              ----------   --------
          TOTAL ASSETS......................................  $1,126,007   $952,936
                                                              ==========   ========
                       LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Notes payable...............................................  $  225,629   $173,198
Note payable to related party...............................         825      2,667
Deferred Federal income tax.................................       7,129      1,652
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities....................       9,517     11,966
                                                              ----------   --------
          Total liabilities.................................     243,100    189,483
          Total shareholders' equity........................     882,907    763,453
                                                              ----------   --------
          TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY........  $1,126,007   $952,936
                                                              ==========   ========
</Table>

                 See Notes to Condensed Financial Information.
                                       S-3
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 2

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                             STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ----------------------------------
                                                                 2002        2001        2000
                                                              ----------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>         <C>
Equity in earnings of subsidiaries..........................   $108,833     $37,439     $62,416
Interest income from subsidiaries...........................      7,277       5,019       9,160
Interest income.............................................        171         764         343
Other income................................................         10          13         146
                                                               --------     -------     -------
          Total revenue.....................................    116,291      43,235      72,065
Interest expense............................................      7,880       8,737      20,249
Other operating expense.....................................      2,290       1,600       1,582
                                                               --------     -------     -------
          Total expense.....................................     10,170      10,337      21,831
                                                               --------     -------     -------
          Earnings before income tax benefit................    106,121      32,898      50,234
Income tax expense (benefit)................................        293       2,701      (5,234)
                                                               --------     -------     -------
          NET EARNINGS......................................   $105,828     $30,197     $55,468
                                                               ========     =======     =======
</Table>

                 See Notes to Condensed Financial Information.
                                       S-4
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 2

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                       STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ----------------------------------
                                                                 2002        2001        2000
                                                              ----------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>         <C>
Net earnings................................................   $105,828     $30,197     $55,468
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Foreign currency translation adjustment.....................         50        (279)       (172)
Gains (losses) in fair value of subsidiaries' foreign
  currency forward contracts recorded as a hedge, net of
  income tax charge (benefit) of $(13) in 2002 and $13 in
  2001......................................................        (24)         24          --
Investment gains (losses):
  Consolidated subsidiaries' investment gains during the
     year, net of deferred tax charge of, $8,040 in 2002;
     $1,137 in 2001; and $2,386 in 2000.....................     14,533       2,297       4,118
  Less consolidated subsidiaries' reclassification
     adjustments for (gains) losses included in net
     earnings, net of deferred tax (charge) benefit of
     $(159) in 2002; $(138) in 2001; and $1,862 in 2000
                                                                   (294)       (255)      3,459
                                                               --------     -------     -------
Other comprehensive income..................................     14,265       1,787       7,405
                                                               --------     -------     -------
          COMPREHENSIVE INCOME..............................   $120,093     $31,984     $62,873
                                                               ========     =======     =======
</Table>

                 See Notes to Condensed Financial Information.
                                       S-5
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 2

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------------------
                                                                2002         2001        2000
                                                              ---------   ----------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>          <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net earnings..............................................  $105,828    $  30,197    $55,468
  Adjustment to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided
     by operating activities:
  Undistributed net income of subsidiaries..................   (74,864)     (20,184)   (40,818)
  Amortization and depreciation.............................     3,279        2,586        527
  Increase in accrued interest receivable added to
     intercompany loan balances.............................    (7,277)        (835)    (5,160)
  Change in accounts payable and accrued liabilities........    (2,663)       1,181     (5,286)
  Tax benefit from exercise of stock options................     4,030       12,312      3,627
  Other, net................................................     2,088        2,000     (1,107)
                                                              --------    ---------    -------
     Cash provided by operating activities..................    30,421       27,257      7,251
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Cash contributions to subsidiaries........................   (69,007)     (84,151)    (1,130)
  Purchase of subsidiaries..................................   (24,593)     (96,405)   (10,345)
  Change in short-term investments..........................    (3,340)       1,991     (3,093)
  Change in receivable from subsidiaries....................    (1,379)     (11,317)     4,710
  Intercompany loans to subsidiaries for acquisitions.......   (16,806)      (1,275)   (16,509)
  Payments on intercompany loans to subsidiaries............    31,964       34,674     42,838
                                                              --------    ---------    -------
     Cash provided (used) by investing activities...........   (83,161)    (156,483)    16,471
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from note payable, net of costs..................    76,000      175,401     26,470
  Payments on notes payable.................................   (27,467)    (216,523)   (57,042)
  Sale of common stock......................................    11,207      192,831     17,235
  Dividends paid............................................   (15,663)     (13,822)   (10,350)
                                                              --------    ---------    -------
     Cash provided (used) by financing activities...........    44,077      137,887    (23,687)
                                                              --------    ---------    -------
     Net change in cash.....................................    (8,663)       8,661         35
     Cash as of beginning of year...........................     8,719           58         23
                                                              --------    ---------    -------
     CASH AS OF END OF YEAR.................................  $     56    $   8,719    $    58
                                                              ========    =========    =======
</Table>

                 See Notes to Condensed Financial Information.
                                       S-6
<PAGE>

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                    NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     (1) The accompanying condensed financial information should be read in
         conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related
         notes thereto of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Subsidiaries.
         Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the equity method.
         Certain amounts in the 2001 and 2000 condensed financial information
         have been reclassified to conform with the 2002 presentation. Such
         reclassifications had no effect on our shareholders' equity, net
         earnings or cash flows.

     (2) Intercompany loans to subsidiaries are demand notes issued primarily to
         fund the cash portion of acquisitions. They bear interest at a rate set
         by management, which approximates the interest rate charged to us for
         similar debt. As of December 31, 2002, the interest rate on
         intercompany loans was 5.0%.

                                       S-7
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 3

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                      SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
<Table>
<Caption>
        COLUMN A              COLUMN B            COLUMN C          COLUMN D     COLUMN F      COLUMN G          COLUMN H
- ------------------------  -----------------   -----------------   ------------   --------   --------------   -----------------
                                                     (1)              (1)                        (2)
                                              DECEMBER 31,                             FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                          ----------------------------------------------------   ---------------------------------------------
                                                FUTURE POLICY                                                BENEFITS, CLAIMS,
                                              BENEFITS, LOSSES,                                                 LOSSES AND
                           DEFERRED POLICY     CLAIMS AND LOSS      UNEARNED     PREMIUM    NET INVESTMENT      SETTLEMENT
        SEGMENTS          ACQUISITION COSTS       EXPENSES          PREMIUMS     REVENUE        INCOME           EXPENSES
- ------------------------  -----------------   -----------------   ------------   --------   --------------   -----------------
<S>                       <C>                 <C>                 <C>            <C>        <C>              <C>
2002
- ------------------------
Insurance Company.......       $18,883           $1,234,241         $331,050     $505,521      $33,587           $306,491
Underwriting Agency.....                                                                         2,954
Intermediary............                                                                           993
Other Operations........                                                                            41
Corporate...............                                                                           194
                               -------           ----------         --------     --------      -------           --------
Total...................       $18,883           $1,234,241         $331,050     $505,521      $37,769           $306,491
                               =======           ==========         ========     ========      =======           ========
2001
- ------------------------
Insurance Company.......       $15,390           $1,213,761         $179,530     $342,787      $30,766           $267,390
Underwriting Agency.....                                                                         5,202
Intermediary............                                                                         2,771
Other Operations........                                                                            85
Corporate...............                                                                           814
                               -------           ----------         --------     --------      -------           --------
Total...................       $15,390           $1,213,761         $179,530     $342,787      $39,638           $267,390
                               =======           ==========         ========     ========      =======           ========
2000
- ------------------------
Insurance Company.......       $ 9,095           $1,030,877         $190,550     $267,647      $27,948           $198,470
Underwriting Agency.....                                                                         7,547
Intermediary............                                                                         3,335
Other Operations........                                                                           476
Corporate...............                                                                           530
                               -------           ----------         --------     --------      -------           --------
Total...................       $ 9,095           $1,030,877         $190,550     $267,647      $39,836           $198,470
                               =======           ==========         ========     ========      =======           ========

<Caption>
        COLUMN A              COLUMN I        COLUMN J    COLUMN K
- ------------------------  -----------------   ---------   --------
                                                 (3)
                              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                          ----------------------------------------

                           AMORTIZATION OF      OTHER
                           DEFERRED POLICY    OPERATING   PREMIUM
        SEGMENTS          ACQUISITION COSTS   EXPENSES    WRITTEN
- ------------------------  -----------------   ---------   --------
<S>                       <C>                 <C>         <C>
2002
- ------------------------
Insurance Company.......       $63,274        $ 40,008    $545,911
Underwriting Agency.....                        63,448
Intermediary............                        26,857
Other Operations........                           256
Corporate...............                        (2,432)
                               -------        --------    --------
Total...................       $63,274        $128,137    $545,911
                               =======        ========    ========
2001
- ------------------------
Insurance Company.......       $27,923        $ 53,250    $372,958
Underwriting Agency.....                        51,766
Intermediary............                        31,409
Other Operations........                         5,995
Corporate...............                        (1,539)
                               -------        --------    --------
Total...................       $27,923        $140,881    $372,958
                               =======        ========    ========
2000
- ------------------------
Insurance Company.......       $23,743        $ 19,849    $283,788
Underwriting Agency.....                        69,092
Intermediary............                        31,078
Other Operations........                        15,755
Corporate...............                           586
                               -------        --------    --------
Total...................       $23,743        $136,360    $283,788
                               =======        ========    ========
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Columns C and D are shown ignoring the effects of reinsurance.
(2) Net investment income was allocated to the subsidiary, and therefore the
    segment, on which the related investment asset was recorded.
(3) Other operating expenses is after all corporate expense allocations and
    amortization of goodwill have been charged or credited to the individual
    segments.

Note:  Column E is omitted because we have no other policy claims and benefits
payable.

                                       S-8
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 4

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                                  REINSURANCE
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
              COLUMN A                 COLUMN B       COLUMN C         COLUMN D        COLUMN E       COLUMN F
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                     PERCENT OF
                                        DIRECT     CEDED TO OTHER    ASSUMED FROM                      AMOUNT
                                        AMOUNT       COMPANIES      OTHER COMPANIES   NET AMOUNT   ASSUMED TO NET
                                      ----------   --------------   ---------------   ----------   --------------
<S>                                   <C>          <C>              <C>               <C>          <C>
For the year ended December 31,
  2002:
Life insurance in force.............  $1,021,600      $529,874         $     --        $491,726          --%
                                      ==========      ========         ========        ========         ===
Earned premium:
Property and liability insurance....  $  293,614      $222,906         $133,736        $204,444          65%
Accident and health insurance.......     508,237       302,711           95,551         301,077          32%
                                      ----------      --------         --------        --------
     Total..........................  $  801,851      $525,617         $229,287        $505,521          45%
                                      ==========      ========         ========        ========         ===
For the year ended December 31,
  2001:
Life insurance in force.............  $  597,886      $597,310         $     --        $    576          --%
                                      ==========      ========         ========        ========         ===
Earned premium:
Property and liability insurance....  $  284,488      $229,791         $ 95,342        $150,039          64%
Accident and health insurance.......     505,405       435,549          122,892         192,748          64%
                                      ----------      --------         --------        --------
     Total..........................  $  789,893      $665,340         $218,234        $342,787          64%
                                      ==========      ========         ========        ========         ===
For the year ended December 31,
  2000:
Life insurance in force.............  $  633,988      $633,851         $     --        $    137          --%
                                      ==========      ========         ========        ========         ===
Earned premium:
Property and liability insurance....  $  290,928      $285,020         $ 92,253        $ 98,161          94%
Accident and health insurance.......     372,530       421,928          218,884         169,486         129%
                                      ----------      --------         --------        --------
     Total..........................  $  663,458      $706,948         $311,137        $267,647         116%
                                      ==========      ========         ========        ========         ===
</Table>

                                       S-9
<PAGE>

                                                                      SCHEDULE 5

                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2002      2001      2000
                                                              -------   -------   -------
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
Reserve for uncollectible reinsurance:
  Balance as of beginning of year...........................  $ 5,176   $ 4,057   $ 5,541
  Total provision charged to expense........................    5,530     1,119       465
  Total amounts written off.................................   (3,564)       --    (1,949)
                                                              -------   -------   -------
     BALANCE AS OF END OF YEAR..............................  $ 7,142   $ 5,176   $ 4,057
                                                              =======   =======   =======
Allowance for doubtful accounts:
  Balance as of beginning of year...........................  $ 2,779   $ 3,325   $ 1,729
  Acquisitions of subsidiaries..............................      455       453        --
  Total provision charged to expense........................      487     2,366     2,815
  Total amounts written off.................................   (1,442)   (3,365)   (1,219)
                                                              -------   -------   -------
     BALANCE AS OF END OF YEAR..............................  $ 2,279   $ 2,779   $ 3,325
                                                              =======   =======   =======
</Table>

                                       S-10
<PAGE>

                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS

     (Items denoted by a letter are incorporated by reference to other documents
previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as set forth at the
end of this index. Items not denoted by a letter are being filed herewith.)

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT
NUMBER
- -------
<C>       <S>  <C>
(A)3.1    --   Bylaws of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc., as amended.
(B)3.2    --   Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amendment of
               Certificate of Incorporation of HCC Insurance Holdings,
               Inc., filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on July 23,
               1996 and May 21, 1998, respectively.
(A)4.1    --   Specimen of Common Stock Certificate, $1.00 par value, of
               HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.
(C)10.1   --   Share Purchase Agreement dated January 29, 1999, among HCC
               Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Gerald Axel, Barry J. Cook,
               Gary J. Lockett, Christopher F.B. Mays, Mark E. Rattner,
               Marshall Rattner, Inc., John Smith and Keith W. Steed.
(D)10.2   --   Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of October 11, 1999
               among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc., Merger Sub of Delaware,
               Inc. and The Centris Group, Inc.
(E)10.3   --   Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January 19, 2001
               among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc., HCC Employee Benefits,
               Inc. and James Scott Schanen, Lisa Rae Schanen, Conor
               Schanen qsst, Austin Schanen qsst, Kevin Tolbert and Schanen
               Consulting Corporation.
(F)10.4   --   Loan Agreement ($300,000,000 Revolving Loan Facility) dated
               as of December 17, 1999 among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.;
               Wells Fargo Bank (Texas), National Association; Bank of
               America, N.A.; Bank of New York; Bank One, N.A.; First Union
               National Bank; and Dresdner Bank AG, New York and Grand
               Cayman Branches.
(G)10.5   --   Amendment to Loan Agreement dated as of August 11, 2000
               among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.; Wells Fargo Bank
               (Texas), National Association; First Union National Bank;
               Bank of America, N.A.; The Bank of New York; Bank One, N.A.;
               and Dresdner Bank AG, New York and Grand Cayman Branches.
(G)10.6   --   Second Amendment to Loan Agreement dated as of June 6, 2001
               among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.; Wells Fargo Bank
               (Texas), National Association; First Union National Bank;
               Bank of America, N.A.; and The Bank of New York.
  10.7    --   Third Amendment to Loan Agreement dated as of March 21, 2003
               among HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.; Wells Fargo Bank
               (Texas), National Association; First Union National Bank;
               Bank of America, N.A.; and The Bank of New York.
(H)10.8   --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 1994 Nonemployee Director Stock
               Option Plan.
(I)10.9   --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 1992 Incentive Stock Option
               Plan, as amended and restated.
(I)10.10  --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 1995 Flexible Incentive Plan,
               as amended and restated.
(I)10.11  --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 1997 Flexible Incentive Plan,
               as amended and restated.
(I)10.12  --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 1996 Nonemployee Director Stock
               Option Plan, as amended and restated.
(J)10.13  --   HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 2001 Flexible Incentive Plan,
               as amended and restated.
  10.14   --   Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement under the HCC
               Insurance Holdings, Inc. 2001 Flexible Incentive Plan.
  10.15   --   Employment Agreement effective as of January 1, 2003,
               between HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Stephen L. Way.
  10.16   --   Employment Agreement effective as of January 10, 2002,
               between HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Craig J. Kelbel.
  10.17   --   Employment Agreement effective as of June 3, 2002, between
               HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Michael J. Schell.
(G)10.18  --   Employment Agreement effective as of January 1, 2002,
               between HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Edward H. Ellis,
               Jr.
</Table>
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT
NUMBER
- -------
<C>       <S>  <C>
  10.19   --   Employment Agreement effective as of January 1, 2003 between
               HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Christopher L. Martin.
  12      --   Statement Regarding Computation of Ratios.
  21      --   Subsidiaries of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.
  23      --   Consent of Independent Accountants -- PricewaterhouseCoopers
               LLP dated March 27, 2003.
  24      --   Powers of Attorney.
  99.1    --   Certification with respect to annual report.
  99.2    --   Certification by Chief Executive Officer.
  99.3    --   Certification by Chief Financial Officer.
</Table>

- ---------------
(A)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 33-48737) filed
     October 27, 1992.

(B)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-61687) filed
     August 17, 1998.

(C)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1999.

(D)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Schedule 14D-1 Tender Offer Statement in respect to shares of The Centris
     Group, Inc. filed October 18, 1999.

(E)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000.

(F)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Form 8-K filed December 20, 1999.

(G)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001.

(H) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
    Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 33-94472) filed July
    11, 1995.

(I)  Incorporated by reference to Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999.

(J)  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s
     Definitive Proxy Statement for the May 22, 2002 Annual Meeting of
     Shareholders filed April 26, 2002.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.7
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>h03402exv10w7.txt
<DESCRIPTION>3RD AMENDMENT TO LOAN AGREEMENT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.7

                       THIRD AMENDMENT TO LOAN AGREEMENT


         THIS THIRD AMENDMENT TO LOAN AGREEMENT (this "Amendment") is made and
entered into as of March 21, 2003 by and among HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC., a
Delaware corporation (the "Borrower"); each of the Lenders which is a party to
the Loan Agreement (as defined below) (individually, a "Lender" and,
collectively, the "Lenders"), WELLS FARGO BANK TEXAS, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
Administrative Agent for the Lenders and Lead Arranger (in such capacity,
together with its successors in such capacity, the "Agent"), FIRST UNION
NATIONAL BANK, as Syndication Agent, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Documentation
Agent, and THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Senior Managing Agent.

                                    RECITALS

         A. The Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent executed and delivered that
certain Loan Agreement dated as of December 17, 1999. Said Loan Agreement, as
heretofore amended, is herein called the "Loan Agreement". Any capitalized term
used in this Amendment and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning
ascribed to it in the Loan Agreement.

         B. The Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent desire to amend the Loan
Agreement in certain respects.

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual
agreements, representations and warranties herein set forth, and further good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent do hereby agree as
follows:

         SECTION 1. Amendments to Loan Agreement. Effective as of the date
hereof, Section 8.1(vii) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:

                  (vii) (x) unsecured Indebtedness of Borrower incurred through
         public debt offerings which is outstanding as of March 21, 2003
         (approximately $172,000,000); (y) additional unsecured Indebtedness of
         Borrower in an aggregate amount not to exceed, in the aggregate at any
         one time outstanding, $28,000,000 (to be increased on a
         dollar-for-dollar basis by any repayment of the Indebtedness described
         in the preceding clause (x) so long as at least $100,000,000 of the
         availability for borrowings under clauses (x) and (y) of this provision
         shall used for (or reserved for use for) public debt offerings by
         Borrower); and (z) additional unsecured Indebtedness of Borrower
         incurred through public debt offerings so long as such additional
         Indebtedness shall not exceed, in the aggregate at any one time
         outstanding, $230,000,000; provided that such additional Indebtedness
         shall have with no structured principal amortization and shall have a
         stated maturity later than the Revolving Loan Maturity Date as of the
         date such additional Indebtedness is incurred; and

         SECTION 2. Amendment Fee. No part of this Amendment shall become
effective until the Borrower shall have delivered to the Agent payment to each
Lender executing this Amendment on or prior to March 21, 2003 of a fee of
$5,000.
<PAGE>
         SECTION 3. Ratification. Except as expressly amended by this
Amendment, the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall remain in full
force and effect. None of the rights, title and interests existing and to exist
under the Loan Agreement are hereby released, diminished or impaired, and the
Borrower hereby reaffirms all covenants, representations and warranties in the
Loan Agreement (except such representations and warranties which are, by their
express terms, limited to a prior date).

         SECTION 4. Expenses. The Borrower shall pay to the Agent all
reasonable fees and expenses of its respective legal counsel (pursuant to
Section 11.3 of the Loan Agreement) incurred in connection with the execution
of this Amendment.

         SECTION 5. Certifications. The Borrower hereby certifies that (a) no
material adverse change in the assets, liabilities, financial condition,
business or affairs of the Borrower has occurred since December 31, 2002 and
(b) no uncured Default or uncured Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing or will occur as a result of this Amendment.

         SECTION 6. Miscellaneous. This Amendment (a) shall be binding upon and
inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent and their
respective successors, assigns, receivers and trustees; (b) may be modified or
amended only by a writing signed by the required parties; (c) shall be governed
by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas and the
United States of America; (d) may be executed in several counterparts by the
parties hereto on separate counterparts, and each counterpart, when so executed
and delivered, shall constitute an original agreement, and all such separate
counterparts shall constitute but one and the same agreement and (e) together
with the other Loan Documents, embodies the entire agreement and understanding
between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes
all prior agreements, consents and understandings relating to such subject
matter. The headings herein shall be accorded no significance in interpreting
this Amendment.

               NOTICE PURSUANT TO TEX. BUS. & COMM. CODESS.26.02

         THE LOAN AGREEMENT, AS AMENDED BY THIS AMENDMENT, AND ALL OTHER LOAN
DOCUMENTS EXECUTED BY ANY OF THE PARTIES PRIOR HERETO OR SUBSTANTIALLY
CONCURRENTLY HEREWITH CONSTITUTE A WRITTEN LOAN AGREEMENT WHICH REPRESENTS THE
FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF
PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES. THERE ARE
NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES.

<PAGE>
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent have
caused this Amendment to be signed by their respective duly authorized
officers, effective as of the date first above written.

                             HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.,
                             a Delaware corporation


                             By: /s/ Edward H. Ellis, Jr.
                                -----------------------------------------------
                             Name:   Edward H. Ellis, Jr.
                                  ---------------------------------------------
                             Title:  Executive Vice President and CFO
                                   --------------------------------------------


<PAGE>


                             WELLS FARGO BANK TEXAS, NATIONAL
                             ASSOCIATION, as Administrative Agent and Lead
                             Arranger and as a Lender


                             By: /s/ Jonathan C. Homeyer
                                -----------------------------------------------
                             Name:   Jonathan C. Homeyer
                                  ---------------------------------------------
                             Title:  Regional V.P.
                                   --------------------------------------------





<PAGE>


                             BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
                             as Documentation Agent and as a Lender


                             By: /s/ Leslie Nannan
                                -----------------------------------------------
                             Name:   Leslie Nannan
                                  ---------------------------------------------
                             Title:  Vice President
                                   --------------------------------------------








<PAGE>


                             THE BANK OF NEW YORK,
                             as Senior Managing Agent and as a Lender


                             By: /s/ Lizanne T. Eberle
                                -----------------------------------------------
                             Name:   Lizanne T. Eberle
                                  ---------------------------------------------
                             Title:  Vice President
                                   --------------------------------------------







<PAGE>


                             CITICORP USA


                             By: /s/ David A. Dodge
                                -----------------------------------------------
                             Name:   David A. Dodge
                                  ---------------------------------------------
                             Title:  Managing Director
                                   --------------------------------------------










<PAGE>


                             SOUTHWEST BANK OF TEXAS, N.A.


                             By: /s/ Kenneth C. Gealter
                                -----------------------------------------------
                             Name:   Kenneth C. Gealter
                                  ---------------------------------------------
                             Title:  Vice President
                                   --------------------------------------------













<PAGE>
         The undersigned hereby join in this Amendment to evidence their
consent to execution by Borrower of this Amendment, to confirm that each Loan
Document now or previously executed by the undersigned applies and shall
continue to apply to the Loan Agreement, as amended hereby, to acknowledge that
without such consent and confirmation, Lenders would not execute this Amendment
and to join in the notice pursuant to Tex. Bus. & Comm. Codess.26.02 set forth
above.

                             AVEMCO CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation,
                             LDG REINSURANCE CORPORATION, a
                             Massachusetts corporation, HCC EMPLOYER
                             SERVICES, INC., an Alabama corporation, HCC
                             EMPLOYEE BENEFITS, INC., a Delaware
                             corporation, HCC AVIATION INSURANCE GROUP,
                             INC., a Texas corporation, HCC BENEFITS
                             CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, HCC
                             RISK MANAGEMENT, CORPORATION, a Texas corporation,
                             HCC INTERMEDIATE HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware
                             corporation, ASU INTERNATIONAL, INC., a
                             Massachusetts corporation, MARSHALL
                             RATTNER, INC., a New York corporation, HCC
                             EMPLOYER SERVICES, INC., an Illinois
                             corporation, HCC-ASU ACQUISITION SUB, INC.,
                             a Massachusetts corporation, HCC
                             ACQUISITION SUB, INC., a New York
                             corporation


                             By: /s/ Edward H. Ellis, Jr.
                                -----------------------------------------------
                             Name:   Edward H. Ellis, Jr.
                                  ---------------------------------------------
                             Title:  Executive Vice President
                                   --------------------------------------------




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.14
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>h03402exv10w14.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FORM OF INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.14

                        INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
                     UNDER THE HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.
                          2001 FLEXIBLE INCENTIVE PLAN


         This STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into
effective as of the date of grant as set forth on the signature page below by
and between HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the
"Company"), and the undersigned employee (the "Employee").

                              W I T N E S S E T H :

         WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company, with the approval and
authorization of the shareholders thereof, has resolved that the interests of
the Company will be advanced by encouraging and enabling certain of its
employees, directors and consultants and certain employees of its Subsidiaries
(as such term is defined in the Plan) to acquire proprietary shares in the
Company, thus providing them with a more direct concern in the welfare of the
Company and the Subsidiaries and assuring a closer identification of their
interests with those of the Company and the Subsidiaries; and

         WHEREAS, the Board of Directors believes that the acquisition of such
an interest in the Company will stimulate the endeavors of such employees,
directors and consultants on behalf of the Company and the Subsidiaries and
strengthen their desire to remain with the Company and the Subsidiaries; and

         WHEREAS, the Employee above referenced is one of such individuals.

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual
covenants herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the
parties hereto agree as follows:

         1. Option to Purchase. The Company hereby grants to the Employee as a
matter of separate inducement and agreement in connection with such Employee's
employment by the Company or the Subsidiaries, and not in lieu of any salary or
other compensation for such Employee's services, the right and option to
purchase, at the time and on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth,
that number of shares of the presently authorized Common Stock of the Company at
the per-share purchase price set forth on the signature page of this Agreement.

         2. The Plan. The option provided for in this Agreement is granted
pursuant to the HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. 2001 Flexible Incentive Plan (the
"Plan") as of the date of grant specified on the signature page of this
Agreement (the "Date of Grant"). The terms and provisions of such Plan are
incorporated herein by reference and, except to the extent expressly provided by
the Plan, in the event of any conflict between the terms and provisions of this
Agreement and those of the Plan, the terms and provisions of the Plan, including
without limitation, those with respect to the powers of the administrative
committee appointed thereunder
<PAGE>

(hereinafter referred to as the "Committee"), shall prevail and be controlling.
All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning set
forth in the Plan.

         3. Term of Option. This option shall continue until 11:59 p.m. Houston
time on the date of expiration specified on the signature page of this Agreement
(the "Date of Expiration"), except and to the extent that such term may be
reduced as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 11 hereof; provided, however, that if
any termination date provided for herein shall fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or
legal holiday, then such termination date shall be deemed to be the first normal
business day of the Company, at its office specified in Paragraph 18 hereof,
before such Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.

         4. Vesting. Except as otherwise provided herein, this option shall be
exercisable on or prior to the Date of Expiration, and only to the extent of
shares that have vested in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth on the
signature page of this Agreement. The Employee's right to exercise the option
granted hereunder accrues only in accordance with the preceding sentence and
terminates as set forth herein. This option shall be exercisable during the
lifetime of the Employee only by the Employee. In no event may the Employee or
any person exercising this option pursuant to Paragraph 6(d) hereof exercise
this option (before or after any adjustment or substitution pursuant to
Paragraph 10, 11, or 12 hereof) for a fraction of a share.

         5. Manner of Exercise.

                  (a) Subject to the terms hereof, the option granted hereby may
         be exercised by delivering to the Treasurer of the Company or his
         designee at any time prior to the Date of Expiration a written notice
         specifying the number of vested shares the Employee then desires to
         purchase.

                  (b) The Employee shall deliver to the Treasurer of the Company
         or his designee a cashier's check payable in United States currency
         (unless a personal check shall be acceptable to such officer) to the
         order of the Company for an amount equal to the purchase price for such
         number of shares; or, certificates for Common Stock of the Company
         (provided such Common Stock has been held by the Employee for such
         period of time, if any, as is required by the Committee), valued at the
         Fair Market Value of such Common Stock on the date of exercise of this
         option or a combination of both, as payment of all or any portion of
         the option price for such number of shares. The check or, if
         applicable, the certificates, shall be accompanied by such other
         instruments or agreements duly signed by the Employee as in the opinion
         of counsel for the Company may be necessary or advisable in order that
         the issuance of such number of shares comply with applicable rules and
         regulations under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"),
         any appropriate state securities laws, or any requirement of any
         national securities exchange on which such stock may be traded. As soon
         as practicable after any such exercise of the option in whole or in
         part by the Employee, the Company will deliver to the Employee a
         certificate for the number of shares with respect to which the option
         shall have been so exercised, issued in the Employee's name. Such stock
         certificate shall carry such restrictive legend, and such written
         instructions shall be given to the Company's transfer agent, as the
         Company may deem necessary or advisable for

                                       2
<PAGE>

         any purpose, including, without limitation, compliance with the
         requirements of the Act or any state securities laws.

         6. Termination of Employment.

                  (a) In the event the employment of the Employee is terminated
         for any reason other than death, Disability, voluntary termination by
         the Employee, or for cause (as determined by the Committee in its sole
         and absolute discretion), then the Employee shall have the right at any
         time within sixty (60) days after the termination of such employment
         or, if shorter, during the unexpired term of this option, to exercise
         this option for the full number of shares not previously exercised or
         any portion thereof, except as to the issuance of fractional shares,
         but only to the extent this option was otherwise exercisable in
         accordance with Paragraph 4 hereof on the date of such cessation of
         employment.

                  (b) In the event the employment of the Employee is terminated
         for cause (which determination shall be made in the sole and absolute
         discretion of the Committee), the Employee shall have the right at any
         time within ten (10) days after the termination of such employment or,
         if shorter, during the unexpired term of this option, to exercise this
         option for the full number of shares not previously exercised or any
         portion thereof, except as to the issuance of fractional shares, but
         only to the extent this option was otherwise exercisable in accordance
         with Paragraph 4 hereof as of the date of such termination of
         employment for cause.

                  (c) In the event the employment of the Employee is terminated
         voluntarily by the Employee, the Employee shall have the right at any
         time within thirty (30) days after the termination of such employment
         or, if shorter, during the unexpired term of this option, to exercise
         this option for the full number of shares not previously exercised or
         any portion thereof, except as to the issuance of fractional shares,
         but only to the extent this option was otherwise exercisable in
         accordance with Paragraph 4 hereof as of the date of such termination
         of employment for cause.

                  (d) In the event the employment of the Employee is terminated
         by reason of Disability, then the Employee shall have the right to
         exercise this option for the full number of shares not previously
         exercised or any portion thereof, except as to the issuance of
         fractional shares, to the full extent of this option at any time within
         one year from the date of such termination or within the unexpired term
         of this option, whichever is shorter.

                  (e) In the event of the death of the Employee while in the
         employ of the Company or the Subsidiaries, this option may be exercised
         for the full number of shares not previously exercised, or any portion
         thereof, except as to the issuance of fractional shares, to the full
         extent of this option at any time within one year from the date of
         death of the Employee or within the unexpired term of this option,
         whichever is shorter, by the person or persons to whom the Employee's
         rights under this option shall pass by the Employee's will or by the
         laws of descent and distribution, whichever is applicable.

                                        3
<PAGE>


         7. Shares Issued. Shares to be issued on the exercise of this option
may, at the election of the Company, be either authorized and unissued shares,
or shares previously issued and reacquired by the Company.

         8. Delivery of Certificates. The Company shall not be required to issue
or deliver any certificates for shares purchased upon the exercise of this
option prior to: (i) the obtaining of any approval from any governmental agency
which the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or
advisable; (ii) the completion of any registration or other qualification of
such shares under any state or federal law or ruling or regulation of any
governmental body which the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to
be necessary or advisable; and (iii) the determination by the Committee that the
Employee has tendered to the Company any federal, state or local tax owed by
Employee as a result of exercising this option when the Company has a legal
liability to satisfy such tax. In addition, if shares reserved for issuance upon
the exercise of this option shall not then be registered under the Act, the
Company may, upon Employee's exercise of this option, require Employee or his
permitted transferee to represent in writing that the shares being acquired are
for investment and not with a view to distribution, and may mark the certificate
for the shares with a legend restricting transfer and may issue stop transfer
orders relating to such certificate to the Company's transfer agent.

         9. Taxes. In connection with the exercise of the option by the Employee
and, as a condition to the Company's obligation to deliver shares upon exercise
of the option, the Employee shall make arrangements satisfactory to the
Committee to insure that the amount of the federal withholding tax, if any,
required to be withheld with respect to delivery of the shares is made available
by the Employee for timely payment of the tax by the Company to the United
States Government.

         10. Certain Adjustments. In the event that, prior to the delivery of
all of the shares in respect to which this option is granted, there shall be any
change in the outstanding Common Stock of the Company, through recapitalization,
reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, amendment to the Company's
Certificate of Incorporation or reverse stock split, an appropriate and
proportionate adjustment shall be made in the number and/or kind of securities
allocated to the option hereby granted, without change in the aggregate purchase
price applicable to the unexercised portion of the option, but with a
corresponding adjustment in the number and price for each share covered by the
option. Such adjustments shall be made by the Committee, whose determination in
the matter shall be conclusive and binding on the Company, the Employee and the
Employee's legal representative.

         11. Reorganization.

                  (a) In the event that, prior to the delivery of all the shares
         in respect of which this option is granted, a Reorganization of the
         Company shall occur, as defined in Section 2.3 of the Plan:

                           (i) If provision be made in writing in connection
                  with the Reorganization for the assumption and continuance of
                  the option hereby granted, or the substitution for such option
                  of a new option covering the shares of the

                                        4
<PAGE>

                  successor employer corporation, with appropriate adjustment as
                  to the number and kind of shares and prices, the option hereby
                  granted, or the new option substituted therefor, as the case
                  may be, shall continue in the manner and under the terms
                  provided.

                           (ii) In the event provision is not made in connection
                  with a Reorganization for the continuance and assumption of
                  the option granted under the Plan or for the substitution of
                  an option covering the shares of the successor employer
                  corporation, then the Employee shall be entitled, prior to the
                  effective date of any such reorganization and notwithstanding
                  the provisions of Paragraph 4 hereof (except as to the
                  issuance of fractional shares), to purchase the full number of
                  shares not previously exercised under such option, without
                  regard to the determination as to the periods and installments
                  of exercisability made pursuant to the Plan if (and only if)
                  such option has not at that time expired or been terminated.

                  (b) All adjustments under this Section shall be made by the
         Committee, whose determination as to what adjustments shall be made and
         the extent thereof, shall be final, binding and conclusive on the
         Company, the Employee and the Employee's legal representatives.

         12. Merger or Consolidation. In the event that, prior to the delivery
of all of the shares in respect to which this option is granted, there shall be
a merger or consolidation of the Company in which the Company is the surviving
corporation and, if as a result thereof, outstanding shares of Common Stock of
the Company are changed, converted or exchanged, then there shall be substituted
for each share of stock subject to the option granted hereby the number, kind or
amount of shares of stock or other securities or cash, property, rights or
obligations into which the outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company
shall be so changed, converted or exchanged as a result of such merger or
consolidation. In the case of any such substitution or adjustment as provided in
this paragraph, the option price referred to in this Agreement for the shares
covered hereby shall be the option price for the shares or other securities or
cash, property, rights or obligations which shall have been substituted for the
shares covered hereby or to which such shares shall have been adjusted. Any
adjustment or substitutions pursuant to this paragraph shall be made by the
Committee, whose determination in the matter shall be conclusive and binding on
the Company, the Employee and his legal representatives.

         13. Forfeiture of Option Gain. The purpose of the Plan is to attract,
retain and reward employees; to increase stock ownership and identification with
the Company's interests; and to provide incentive for remaining with and
enhancing the value of the Company and its Subsidiaries over the long-term. The
Employee hereby acknowledges that in the course of employment with the Company,
the Employee has been and will continue to be provided access to certain
confidential and proprietary information and knowledge relating to the
operation, products, and services of the Company and the Subsidiaries and has
been and will continue to be trained and instructed in the unique business
methods of the Company and the Subsidiaries. The Employee further acknowledges
that in the course of employment with the Company, the

                                        5
<PAGE>

Employee has been and will continue to be entrusted with customer lists,
financial information, and other confidential information regarding the
Company's and the Subsidiaries' financial performance, shareholders, business
plans, product development, product and system configurations, and other
business methods and functions considered proprietary by the Company. As
consideration for the above described training and access to confidential
information and for the grant of this option, the Employee hereby agrees that if
at any time within the term of the Option the Employee engages in any activity
in competition with any activity of the Company (or its Subsidiaries), or
inimical, contrary or harmful to the interests of the Company (or its
Subsidiaries), including, but not limited to:

                  (a) conduct related to the Employee's employment for which
         either criminal or civil penalties may be sought against the Employee;

                  (b) violation of the policies of the Company, including,
         without limitation, the Company's insider trading policy;

                  (c) disclosing or misusing any confidential information or
         material concerning the Company;

                  (d) participating in a hostile takeover attempt;

                  (e) making any statement (orally or in writing) about the
         Company and/or any Subsidiary or any service or product of the Company
         and/or the Subsidiaries which statement is false and may reasonably be
         expected to be detrimental to the Company and/or the Subsidiaries;

then this option shall terminate effective as of the date on which the Employee
engages in such activity, unless terminated sooner by operation of another term
or condition of this Agreement or the Plan.

         14. No Shareholder Rights. Neither the Employee nor his legal
representative shall be or have any of the rights or privileges of a shareholder
of the Company in respect to any of the shares issuable upon the exercise of
this option unless and until certificates representing such shares shall have
been issued and delivered to the Employee.

         15. No Employment Obligation. Neither the granting of this option, the
exercise of any part hereof, nor any provision of this Agreement shall
constitute or be evidence of any understanding, express or implied, on the part
of the Company to employ the Employee for any specified period.

         16. Non-Transferability. This option shall, by its terms, be
nontransferable by the Employee other than by will or the laws of descent and
distribution. During the Employee's lifetime, the option shall be exercisable
only by the Employee or by the Employee's duly appointed guardian or personal
representative.

         17. Construction. The Committee shall have authority to make reasonable
constructions of this option and to correct any defect or supply any omission or
reconcile any

                                        6
<PAGE>

inconsistency in this option, and to prescribe reasonable rules and regulations
relating to the administration of this option and other similar options granted
under the Plan.

         18. Notices. Any notice relating to this Agreement shall be in writing
and delivered in person or by registered mail to the Company at the Company's
principal office, 13403 Northwest Freeway, Houston, Texas 77040-6094, or to such
other address as may be hereafter specified by the Company, to the attention of
its Treasurer. All notices to the Employee or other person or persons then
entitled to exercise the option shall be delivered to the Employee or such other
person or persons at the Employee's address specified on the signature page of
this Agreement.

         19. Confidentiality. The Employee agrees that, as partial consideration
for the granting of this option, the Employee will keep confidential all
information and knowledge which the Employee has relating to the manner and
amount of the Employee's participation in the Plan; provided, however, that such
information may be given in confidence to the Employee's spouse or to a
financial institution to the extent that such information is necessary in order
to secure a loan.

         20. Effect of Payment. Any payment or any issuance or transfer of
shares of the Common Stock to the Employee or the Employee's legal
representative, heir, legatee or distributee, in accordance with the provisions
hereof, shall, to the extent thereof, be in full satisfaction of all claims of
such person hereunder. The Committee may require the Employee, legal
representative, heir, legatee or distributee, as a condition precedent to such
payment, to execute a release and receipt therefor in such form as it shall
determine.

         21. Incentive Stock Option. This option is intended to qualify as an
"incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code, and
shall be so construed; provided, however, that nothing in this Agreement shall
be interpreted as a representation, guarantee, or other understanding on the
part of the Company that this option is or will be determined to be an
"incentive stock option" within the meaning of that or any other section of the
Code.

         22. Miscellaneous. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be
illegal, invalid, or unenforceable under any applicable laws, the legality,
validity, and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall
not be affected thereby, and in lieu of such illegal, invalid, or unenforceable
provision, there shall be added automatically as a part of this Agreement a
provision as similar in terms to such illegal, invalid, or unenforceable
provision as may be possible and be legal, valid and enforceable. This Agreement
constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof and no provision hereof may be amended, modified or waived except
by a written agreement signed by the parties. This Agreement may be executed in
any number of counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same
instrument. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
the laws of the State of Texas, without regard to the conflicts of laws
principles thereof, to the maximum extent practicable calls for performance and
shall be performable at the offices of the Company in Houston, Harris County,
Texas and venue for any dispute arising hereunder shall lie exclusively in the
state and/or federal courts of Harris County, Texas and the Southern District of
Texas, Houston Division, respectively.

                                        7
<PAGE>

         23. Expiration of Agreement. IF THIS AGREEMENT IS NOT SIGNED AND
RETURNED TO OUR OFFICES WITHIN 30 DAYS OF THE DATE OF EMPLOYEE'S RECEIPT OF THIS
AGREEMENT, THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OPTION PROVIDED FOR HEREIN IS NULL AND VOID.

                                        8

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.15
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>h03402exv10w15.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - STEPHEN L. WAY
<TEXT>
<PAGE>


                                                                   Exhibit 10.15


                              EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT


         This EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into effective as of
the 1st day of January, 2003 (the "Effective Date"), between HCC INSURANCE
HOLDINGS, INC. ("HCC" or "Company") and STEPHEN L. WAY ("Executive"), sometimes
collectively referred to herein as the "Parties."

                                R E C I T A L S:

         WHEREAS, Executive is to be employed as Chief Executive Officer ("CEO")
and Executive Chairman of the Board of HCC;

         WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Board of Directors of HCC (the
"Board") to (i) directly engage Executive as an officer of HCC and its
subsidiaries; and (ii) directly engage, if elected, the services of Executive as
a director of HCC and its subsidiaries;

         WHEREAS, Executive is desirous of committing himself to serve HCC on
the terms herein provided; and

         WHEREAS, Executive and HCC have previously entered into an Employment
Agreement effective as of January 1, 2000 (the "2000 Contract") which is to be
cancelled, terminated and of no further force or effect, as of the Effective
Date.

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the respective
covenants and agreements set forth below, the Parties agree as follows:

         1. TERMINATION OF 2000 CONTRACT AND TERM. Effective as of the Effective
Date, the 2000 Contract shall be cancelled, terminated and of no further force
or effect. The Company hereby agrees to employ Executive as its Chief Executive
Officer and Executive Chairman of the Board, and Executive hereby agrees to
accept such employment, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, for the
period commencing on the Effective Date and expiring as of 11:59 p.m. on
December 31, 2007 (unless sooner terminated or unless renewed as hereinafter set
forth).

         Unless Executive or the Company has given written notice of termination
at least 120 days before the end of any calendar year, at the end of each year
of the term and any extension thereof, this Agreement shall be extended
automatically and without any further action on the part of any party for an
additional one year so that unless so terminated, Executive shall always have a
five-year term remaining on this Agreement. As used herein the "Term" shall mean
the initial five-year term and any subsequent renewal or renewals thereof. In
addition, at Executive's sole election, at any time during the Term, Executive
shall have the right to terminate his position as CEO, but continue as Executive
Chairman of the Board, provided, in such event the Term of this Agreement shall
continue for a period of five (5) years from the date Executive no longer serves
as CEO, with no right to further renewals.


<PAGE>


         2. DUTIES.

                  (A) DUTIES AS EMPLOYEE OF THE COMPANY. Executive shall,
subject to the supervision of the Board of Directors, have general management
and control of HCC in the ordinary course of its business with all such powers
with respect to such management and control as may be reasonably incident to
such responsibilities. During normal business hours, Executive shall devote
substantially all of his time and attention to diligently attending to the
business of the Company. During the Term, and except as shall exist prior to the
date of this Agreement, Executive shall not directly or indirectly render any
services of a business, commercial, or professional nature to any other person,
firm, corporation, or organization, whether for compensation or otherwise,
without the prior consent of the Board of Directors of HCC. However, Executive
shall have the right to engage in such activities as may be appropriate in order
to manage his personal investments so long as such activities do not interfere
or conflict with the performance of his duties to the Company hereunder. The
conduct of such activity shall not be deemed to materially interfere or conflict
with Executive's performance of his duties until Executive has been notified in
writing thereof and given a reasonable period in which to cure same.

                  (B) OTHER DUTIES. At all times during the Term, the Company
shall use its best efforts to cause Executive to be elected a director and to
serve as Executive Chairman of the Board of HCC. Any such failure to use its
best efforts prior to a Change of Control shall be a material breach of this
Agreement for purposes of Section (4)(a)(iv). Executive agrees to serve as a
director and member of HCC and of any of its subsidiaries and in one or more
executive offices of any of HCC's subsidiaries, provided Executive is
indemnified for serving in any and all such capacities in a manner acceptable to
the Company and Executive. Executive agrees that while a full time employee he
shall not be entitled to receive any compensation for serving as a director of
HCC, or in any capacities of HCC's subsidiaries other than the compensation to
be paid to Executive by the Company pursuant to this Agreement. If Executive is
not a full time employee, he shall be compensated as an outside director.

         3. COMPENSATION AND RELATED MATTERS.

                  (A) BASE SALARY AND DEFERRED COMPENSATION

                           (1) Executive shall receive a base salary (the "Base
Salary") paid by the Company at the annual rate of $800,000, during the period
beginning on the Effective Date and for each year of the Term, payable not less
frequently than in substantially equal monthly installments (or such other more
frequent times as executives of HCC normally are paid).

                           (2) In addition to the Base Salary, Executive shall
receive deferred compensation (the "Deferred Compensation") of $400,000 for each
calendar year or portion thereof of the Term. Such Deferred Compensation shall
be credited to Executive on December 31st of each calendar year, or portion
thereof, during the Term and shall earn interest at the rate of the prime
lending rate announced by the Bank of America, N.A. from time-to-time, plus one
(1) percent. The Deferred Compensation shall be paid to Executive in one lump
sum payment at the time Executive terminates his employment with HCC.


                                       2
<PAGE>


                           (3) If Executive elects to terminate his position as
CEO but remain as Executive Chairman of the Board, the Base Salary set forth in
(i) above shall be reduced from $8000,000 to $500,000 per annum (and all other
terms of this Agreement shall continue to apply).

                  (B) BONUS PAYMENTS. During the Term, Executive shall be
entitled to receive, in addition to the Base Salary, an annual cash bonus
payment in amounts to be determined at the sole discretion of the Compensation
Committee.

                  (C) EXPENSES. During the Term of this Agreement and the
Consulting Period, defined hereunder, Executive shall be entitled to receive
prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by him (in accordance
with the policies and procedures established by the Board for the Companys
senior executive officers) in performing services hereunder, provided that
Executive properly accounts therefor in accordance with Company policy.

                  (D) OTHER BENEFITS. Executive shall be entitled to participate
in or receive benefits under any compensation employee benefit plan or other
arrangement made available by the Company now or in the future to its senior
executive officers and key management employees, subject to and on a basis
consistent with the terms, conditions, and overall administration of such plan
or arrangement. Nothing paid to Executive under any plan or arrangement
presently in effect or made available in the future shall be deemed to be in
lieu of the Base Salary or Defined Compensation payable to Executive pursuant to
subsection (a) of this Section. The Company shall not make any changes in any
employee benefit plans or other arrangements in effect on the date hereof or
subsequently in effect in which Executive currently or in the future
participates (including, without limitation, each pension and retirement plan,
supplemental pension and retirement plan, savings and profit sharing plan, stock
or unit ownership plan, stock or unit purchase plan, stock or unit option plan,
life insurance plan, medical insurance plan, disability plan, dental plan,
health and accident plan, or any other similar plan or arrangement) that would
adversely affect Executive's rights or benefits thereunder, unless such change
occurs pursuant to a program applicable to substantially all executives of the
Company and does not result in a proportionately greater reduction in the rights
of or benefits to Executive as compared with any other executive of the Company.

                  (E) VACATIONS. Executive shall be entitled to forty (40) paid
vacation days per year during the Term, or such additional number as may be
determined by the Board from time to time. There shall be indefinite carryovers
of unused vacation from year to year. For purposes of this Section, weekends
shall not count as vacation days, and Executive shall also be entitled to all
paid holidays given by the Company to its senior executive officers.

                  (F) PERQUISITES. Executive shall be entitled to receive the
perquisites and fringe benefits applicable to a senior executive officer of HCC
in accordance with any practice established by the Compensation Committee.
Notwithstanding, and in addition to, any perquisites to which Executive is
entitled pursuant to the preceding sentence, Executive shall: (i) have the use
of two company vehicles similar to those Executive has been provided prior to
the date of this Agreement and the Company shall pay all expenses related to
Executive's use of such automobiles, including gasoline, insurance, and
maintenance. At the beginning of each calendar year of the Term, HCC


                                       3
<PAGE>


shall replace the older vehicle (or if both are the same age--one of such
vehicles) with a new vehicle. Executive shall receive ownership to both such
vehicles upon termination of Executive's employment; (ii) be allowed to travel
with his spouse on business utilizing First Class passage under the Company's
corporate account, as Executive determines; (iii) receive reimbursement of
annual country club dues for Executives membership in Lochinvar Country Club,
Shadow Hawk County Club plus one additional country club to be determined by
Executive. In addition, Executive shall have the right to change membership in
any such club and to obtain membership to any other club (at Company's sole
cost) so long as Company is not required to hold membership in, or pay dues for,
more than three (3) such country clubs at any one time. Following termination of
this Agreement, Executive shall be bonused such ownership; (iv) receive all
existing life insurance plus an additional term or life policy in an amount
equal to $5,000,000. Upon Executive's termination, all such life insurance shall
be converted to ordinary life insurance to be owned by Executive or Executive's
designee; (v) be entitled to utilize an office at the Companys executive offices
or, at Executives election, to be reimbursed for the utilization of an office at
Executives home; (vi) be entitled to utilize the services of Company employees
at an estimated aggregate annual cost of $400,000 (which shall be added to
Executives taxable income) during the Term and the Consulting Period; (vii) have
the right to utilize during the Term and the Consulting Period at no cost to
Executive, the use of the Company's airplanes (subject to being taxed on the
basis of a first class ticket for transportation for personal use) and the
pilots and engineers employed by the Company pursuant to the contractual
arrangement in existence as of the Effective Date hereof; and (viii) be entitled
to be reimbursed for all methods of communications used by Executive (including,
without limitation, the installation cost and use of software, telephone,
facsimile machines, etc., other similar equipment, and all upgrades thereof) in
Executives house, aircraft and boat which shall continue through the Term and
the Consulting Period.

         In addition to all other benefits provided for in this Agreement,
Executive shall be entitled to receive medical insurance as currently provided
under the Company's group program, as such may be changed from time to time in
the future, and Executive shall be entitled to continue to be covered by such
group program, or, if not permitted under the terms of the group program, then
the Company shall provide Executive with a medical insurance policy providing
substantially similar benefits as to the group program for the period ending on
the later of: (i) the date of Executive's death; (ii) if Executive is married on
the date of his death, the date of the death of Executive's spouse; or (iii) as
to each minor dependent of Executive, the later of the date that each such
dependent reaches the age of twenty-five or completes college (as defined in the
Company's group program). Executive shall be entitled to receive the medical
benefits defined herein at no cost to the Executive.

         The Company shall pay for Executive's preparation of estate planning
and wealth preservation documents during the course of Executive's employment
with the Company. Such estate planning and wealth preservation documents may be
changed from time to time, at the Company's cost and expense, pursuant to
Executive's changing circumstances.

         During Executive's employment he has been instrumental in designing and
utilizing the Company's Logo, Executive shall, during the Term of this Agreement
be entitled to utilize such Logo in such manner as Executive may determine and,
in the event of a Change of Control, as defined below, such Logo shall belong
exclusively to Executive.


                                       4
<PAGE>


                  (G) PRORATION. Any payments or benefits payable to Executive
hereunder in respect of any calendar year during which Executive is employed by
the Company for less than the entire year, unless otherwise provided in the
applicable plan or arrangement or herein, shall be prorated in accordance with
the number of days in such calendar year during which he is so employed.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any payments pursuant to Sections 4(c) or 4(d) of
this Agreement shall not be subject to proration.

         4. TERMINATION.

                  (A) DEFINITIONS.

                           (1) "CAUSE" shall mean:

                                    (i) Material dishonesty which is not the
                  result of an inadvertent or innocent mistake of Executive with
                  respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries;

                                    (ii) Willful misfeasance or nonfeasance of
                  duty by Executive intended to injure or having the effect of
                  injuring in some material fashion the reputation, business, or
                  business relationships of the Company or any of its
                  subsidiaries or any of their respective officers, directors,
                  or employees;

                                    (iii) Material violation by Executive of any
                  material term of this Agreement; or

                                    (iv) Conviction of Executive of any felony,
                  any crime involving moral turpitude or any crime other than a
                  vehicular offense which could reflect in some material fashion
                  unfavorably upon the Company or any of its subsidiaries.

Executive may not be terminated for Cause unless and until there has been
delivered to Executive written notice from the Board supplying the particulars
of Executive's acts or omissions that the Board believes constitute Cause, a
reasonable period of time (not less than 30 days) has been given to Executive
after such notice to either cure the same or to meet with the Board, with his
attorney if so desired by Executive, and following which the Board by action of
not less than two-thirds of its members furnishes to Executive a written
resolution specifying in detail its findings that Executive has been terminated
for Cause as of the date set forth in the notice to Executive.

                           (2) A "CHANGE OF CONTROL" shall be deemed to have
                  occurred if:

                                    (i) Any "person" or "group" (within the
                  meaning of Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities
                  Exchange Act of 1934) other than a trustee or other fiduciary
                  holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the
                  Company becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule
                  13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or
                  indirectly, of 50% or more of the Company's then outstanding
                  voting common stock; or


                                       5
<PAGE>


                                    (ii) At any time during the period of three
                  (3) consecutive years (not including any period prior to the
                  date hereof), individuals who at the beginning of such period
                  constituted the Board (and any new director whose election by
                  the Board or whose nomination for election by the Company's
                  shareholders were approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of
                  the directors then still in office who either were directors
                  at the beginning of such period or whose election or
                  nomination for election was previously so approved) cease for
                  any reason to constitute a majority thereof; or

                                    (iii) The shareholders of the Company
                  approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any
                  other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation (a) in
                  which a majority of the directors of the surviving entity were
                  directors of the Company prior to such consolidation or
                  merger, and (b) which would result in the voting securities of
                  the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing
                  to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being
                  changed into voting securities of the surviving entity) more
                  than 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities
                  of the surviving entity outstanding immediately after such
                  merger or consolidation; or

                                    (iv) The shareholders approve a plan of
                  complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the
                  sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all
                  of the Company's assets.

                           (3) A "DISABILITY" shall mean the absence of
Executive from Executive's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180
consecutive days, or 180 days in a 365-day period, as a result of incapacity due
to mental or physical illness which results in the Executive being unable to
perform the essential functions of his position, with or without reasonable
accommodation.

                           (4) A "GOOD REASON" shall mean any of the following
(without Executive's express written consent):

                                    (i) A material alteration in the nature or
                  status of Executive's title, duties or responsibilities, or
                  the assignment of duties or responsibilities inconsistent with
                  Executive's status, title, duties and responsibilities;

                                    (ii) A failure by the Company to continue in
                  effect any employee benefit plan in which Executive was
                  participating, or the taking of any action by the Company that
                  would adversely affect Executive's participation in, or
                  materially reduce Executive's benefits under, any such
                  employee benefit plan, unless such failure or such taking of
                  any action adversely affects the senior members of corporate
                  management of the Company generally to the same extent;

                                    (iii) A relocation of the Company's
                  principal executive offices, or Executive's relocation to any
                  place other than the principal executive offices,


                                       6
<PAGE>


                  exceeding a distance of fifty (50) miles from the Company's
                  current executive office located in Houston, Texas, except for
                  reasonably required travel by Executive on the Company's
                  business;

                                    (iv) Any material breach by the Company of
                  any provision of this Agreement; or

                                    (v) Any failure by the Company to obtain the
                  assumption and performance of this Agreement by any successor
                  (by merger, consolidation, or otherwise) or assign of the
                  Company.

However, Good Reason shall exist with respect to an above specified matter only
if such matter is not corrected by the Company within thirty (30) days of its
receipt of written notice of such matter from Executive, and in no event shall a
termination by Executive occurring more than ninety (90) days following the date
of the event described above be a termination for Good Reason due to such event.

                           (5) "TERMINATION DATE" shall mean the date Executive
terminated for any reason pursuant to this Agreement.


                  (B) TERMINATION WITHOUT CAUSE, OR TERMINATION FOR GOOD REASON:
BENEFITS. In the event there is a termination by the Company without Cause, or
if Executive terminates for Good Reason, or if there is a Change of Control (a
"Termination Event"), this Agreement shall terminate except as provided in
Section 6, and Executive shall be entitled to the following severance benefits:

                           (1) Base Salary and Deferred Compensation (as defined
in Section 3(a)), at the rate and payable at Executive's option (or the option
of Executive's estate) within sixty (60) days in a lump sum payment or such
longer period of time as Executive shall determine.

                           (2) To the extent not theretofore paid or provided,
or otherwise set forth herein, the Company shall timely pay or provide to
Executive any other amounts or benefits required to be paid or provided or which
Executive is eligible to receive under any plan, program, policy or practice, or
contract or agreement of the Company and its affiliated companies for the period
of time equal to the remainder of the Term, at its sole expense, and shall
continue to provide (through its own plan and/or individual policies) Executive
(and Executive's dependents) with health benefits no less favorable than the
group health plan benefits provided during such period to any senior executive
officer of the Company or any affiliated company (to the extent any such
coverage or benefits are taxable to Executive by reason of being provided under
a self-insured health plan of the Company or an affiliate, the Company shall
make Executive "whole" for the same on an after-tax basis), provided, however,
such coverage shall be secondary to any group health plan coverage Executive (or
his dependents) receive from another employer, (such other amounts and benefits
shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Other Benefits");


                                       7
<PAGE>


                           (3) If Executive receives any payments whether or not
pursuant to this Agreement which are subject to an excise tax imposed under
Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any similar
tax imposed under federal, state, or local law (collectively, "Excise Taxes"),
the Company shall pay to Executive (on or before the date on which the Company
is required to withhold such Excise Taxes), 1) an additional amount equal to all
Excise Taxes then due and payable, and 2) the amount necessary to defray
Executive's increased (federal, state, and local) tax liability arising due to
payment of the amount specified in this Subsection (4) which shall include any
costs and expenses, including penalties and interest incurred by Executive in
connection with any audit, proceedings, etc. related to the payment of such
Excise Taxes or this payment. For purposes of calculating the amount payable to
Executive under this Section, the federal and state income tax rates used shall
be the highest marginal federal and state rates applicable to ordinary income in
Executive's state of residence, taking into account any federal income tax
deductions or credits available to Executive for state income taxes. The Company
shall cause its independent auditors to calculate such amount and provide
Executive a copy of such calculation at least ten (10) days prior to the date
specified above for payment of such amount. It is the intent of the Parties that
this Subsection (4) shall place Executive in the same net after-tax position
Executive would have been in had no payment been subject to an Excise Tax and,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary, it shall be construed to effectuate
said result;

                           (4) All accrued compensation and unreimbursed
expenses through the Termination Date. Such amounts shall be paid to Executive
in a lump sum in cash within thirty (30) days after the Termination Date; and

                           (5) Executive shall be free to accept other
employment during such period, and there shall be no offset of any employment
compensation earned by Executive in such other employment during such period
against payments due Executive under this Section 4, and there shall be no
offset in any compensation received from such other employment against the Base
Salary set forth above.

                           (6) In addition to all amounts otherwise paid to
Executive pursuant to this Agreement, all amounts that Executive would otherwise
have received during the Consulting Period, including, without limitation, all
perquisites, as set forth in subsection 3(f).

                  (C) TERMINATION IN EVENT OF DEATH: BENEFITS. If Executive's
employment is terminated by reason of Executive's death during the Term of this
Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate except as provided in Section 6
without further obligation to Executive's legal representatives under this
Agreement, other than for payment of all compensation and unreimbursed expenses,
as Executive would have been entitled to during the remaining portion of the
Term and the Consulting Period, the timely payment or provision of Other
Benefits through the date of death, and, if such death occurs on or after
October 1 of any year, such cash or stock bonus as Executive would otherwise
have been awarded in such year if Executives death had not occurred. Such
amounts shall be paid to Executive's estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a
lump sum in cash within ninety (90) days after the date of death.


                                       8
<PAGE>


                           (D) TERMINATION IN EVENT OF DISABILITY: BENEFITS. If
Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Disability during
the Term, except as provided for in Section 6, this Agreement shall terminate
and Executive shall receive payment of all compensation for the Term plus the
Consulting Period, and if such Disability occurs on or after October 1 of any
year, Executive shall be entitled to the same cash or stock bonus in such year
that Executive would have been awarded if such Disability had not occurred.
Executive's compensation shall not be reduced by any long-term disability
coverage Executive actually receives.

                           (E) VOLUNTARY TERMINATION BY EXECUTIVE AND
TERMINATION FOR CAUSE: BENEFITS. Executive may terminate his employment with the
Company without Good Reason by giving written notice of his intent and stating
an effective Termination Date at least ninety (90) days after the date of such
notice; provided, however, that the Company may accelerate such effective date
by paying Executive through the proposed Termination Date and also vesting
awards that would have vested but for this acceleration of the proposed
Termination Date. Upon such a termination by Executive, except as provided in
Section 6, or upon termination for Cause by the Company, this Agreement shall
terminate, and the Company shall pay to Executive all accrued compensation,
unreimbursed expenses and the Other Benefits through the Termination Date. Such
amounts shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum in cash within thirty (30) days
after the date of termination.

                           (F) DIRECTOR POSITIONS. Upon termination of
employment, for any reason Executive shall remain on any and all Board positions
held with the Company and/or any of its subsidiaries and affiliates. At such
time, Executive shall be paid as an outside director.

         5. NON-COMPETITION, NON-SOLICITATION, AND CONFIDENTIALITY. At the
inception of this employment relationship, and continuing on an ongoing basis,
the Company agrees to give Executive access to Confidential Information
(including, without limitation, Confidential Information, as defined below, of
the Company's Affiliates) which the Executive has not had access to or knowledge
of before the execution of this Agreement. At the time this Agreement is made,
the Company agrees to provide Executive with initial and ongoing Specialized
Training, which Executive has not had access to or knowledge of before the
execution of this Agreement. "Specialized Training" includes the training the
Company provides to its employees that is unique to its business and enhances
Executive's ability to perform Executive's job duties effectively. Specialized
Training includes, without limitation, orientation training; sales
methods/techniques training; operation methods training; and computer and
systems training.

         In consideration of all of the foregoing, Executive agrees as follows:

                  (A) NON-COMPETITION DURING EMPLOYMENT. Executive agrees that,
in consideration for the Company's promise to provide Executive with
Confidential Information and Specialized Training, during the Term he will not
compete with the Company by engaging in the conception, design, development,
production, marketing, or servicing of any product or service that is
substantially similar to the products or services which the Company provides,
and that he will not work for, in any capacity, assist, or become affiliated
with as an owner, partner, etc., either directly or indirectly, any individual
or business which offers or performs services, or offers or provides products
substantially similar to the services and products provided by Company.


                                       9
<PAGE>


                  (B) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST. Executive agrees that during the
Term, he will not engage, either directly or indirectly, in any activity (a
"Conflict of Interest") which might adversely affect the Company or its
affiliates, including ownership of a material interest in any supplier,
contractor, distributor, subcontractor, customer or other entity with which the
Company does business or accepting any material payment, service, loan, gift,
trip, entertainment, or other favor from a supplier, contractor, distributor,
subcontractor, customer or other entity with which the Company does business,
and that Executive will promptly inform the Chairman of the Company as to each
offer received by Executive to engage in any such activity. Executive further
agrees to disclose to the Company any other facts of which Executive becomes
aware which might in Executives good faith judgment reasonably be expected to
involve or give rise to a Conflict of Interest or potential Conflict of
Interest.

                  (C) NON-COMPETITION AFTER TERMINATION. Executive agrees that
Executive shall not, at any time during the period of two (2) years after the
termination of the Term for any reason, within any of the markets in which the
Company has sold products or services or formulated a plan to sell products or
services into a market during the last twelve (12) months of Executive's employ;
engage in or contribute Executive's knowledge to any work which is competitive
with or similar to a product, process, apparatus, service, or development on
which Executive worked or with respect to which Executive had access to
Confidential Information while employed by the Company; provided, however, this
subsection (c) shall not operate to prevent Executive from engaging in retail
insurance or re-insurance activities during such two-year period to the extent
such activities do not compete or permit any other person or entity to compete
with any business the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliated companies
were engaged in at the time of such termination. Following the expiration of
said two (2) year period, Executive shall continue to be obligated under the
Confidential Information Section of this Agreement not to use or to disclose
Confidential Information of the Company so long as it shall not be publicly
available. It is understood that the geographical area set forth in this
covenant is divisible so that if this clause is invalid or unenforceable in an
included geographic area, that area is severable and the clause remains in
effect for the remaining included geographic areas in which the clause is valid.

                  (d) NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS. Executive further agrees
that for a period of two (2) years after the termination of the Term, he will
not solicit or accept any business from any customer or client or prospective
customer or client with whom Executive dealt or solicited while employed by
Company during the last twelve (12) months of his employment.

                  (e) NON-SOLICITATION OF EMPLOYEES. Executive agrees that for

the duration of the Term, and for a period of two (2) years after the
termination of the Term except for Frank J. Bramanti, L. Edward Tuffley, Byron
Way and Rosemary Gilarade, and Executive's personal service employees, he will
not either directly or indirectly, on his own behalf or on behalf of others,
solicit, attempt to hire, or hire any person employed by Company to work for
Executive or for another entity, firm, corporation, or individual.

                  (f) CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Executive further agrees that he
will not, except as the Company may otherwise consent or direct in writing,
reveal or disclose, sell, use, lecture upon,


                                       10
<PAGE>


publish or otherwise disclose to any third party any Confidential Information or
proprietary information of the Company, or authorize anyone else to do these
things at any time either during or subsequent to his employment with the
Company. This Section shall continue in full force and effect after termination
of Executive's employment and after the termination of this Agreement.
Executive's obligations under this Section with respect to any specific
Confidential Information and proprietary information shall cease when that
specific portion of the Confidential Information and proprietary information
becomes publicly known, in its entirety and without combining portions of such
information obtained separately. It is understood that such Confidential
Information and proprietary information of the Company include matters that
Executive conceives or develops, as well as matters Executive learns from other
employees of Company. Confidential Information is defined to include
information: (1) disclosed to or known by the Executive as a consequence of or
through his employment with the Company; (2) not generally known outside the
Company; and (3) which relates to any aspect of the Company or its business,
finances, operation plans, budgets, research, or strategic development.
"Confidential Information" includes, but is not limited to the Company's trade
secrets, proprietary information, financial documents, long range plans,
customer lists, employer compensation, marketing strategy, data bases, costing
data, computer software developed by the Company, investments made by the
Company, and any information provided to the Company by a third party under
restrictions against disclosure or use by the Company or others.

                  (g) RETURN OF DOCUMENTS, EQUIPMENT, ETC. All writings,
records, and other documents and things comprising, containing, describing,
discussing, explaining, or evidencing any Confidential Information, and all
equipment, components, parts, tools, and the like in Executive's custody or
possession that have been obtained or prepared in the course of Executive's
employment with the Company shall be the exclusive property of the Company,
shall not be copied and/or removed from the premises of the Company, except in
pursuit of the business of the Company, and shall be delivered to the Company,
without Executive retaining any copies, upon notification of the termination of
Executive's employment or at any other time requested by the Company. The
Company shall have the right to retain, access, and inspect all property of
Executive of any kind in the office, work area, and on the premises of the
Company upon termination of Executive's employment and at any time during
employment by the Company to ensure compliance with the terms of this Agreement.

                  (h) REAFFIRM OBLIGATIONS. Upon termination of his employment
with the Company, Executive, if requested by Company, shall reaffirm in writing
Executive's recognition of the importance of maintaining the confidentiality of
the Company's Confidential Information and proprietary information, and reaffirm
any other obligations set forth in this Agreement.

                  (i) PRIOR DISCLOSURE. Executive represents and warrants that
he has not used or disclosed any Confidential Information he may have obtained
from Company prior to signing this Agreement, in any way inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement.

                  (j) CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OF PRIOR COMPANIES. Executive
will not disclose or use during the period of his employment with the Company
any proprietary or Confidential Information or Copyright Works which Executive
may have acquired because of employment with


                                       11
<PAGE>


an employer other than the Company or acquired from any other third party,
whether such information is in Executive's memory or embodied in a writing or
other physical form.

                  (k) BREACH. Executive agrees that any breach of Sections 5(a),
(c), (d), (e) or (f) above cannot be remedied solely by money damages, and that
in addition to any other remedies Company may have, Company is entitled to
obtain injunctive relief against Executive. Nothing herein, however, shall be
construed as limiting Company's right to pursue any other available remedy at
law or in equity, including recovery of damages and termination of this
Agreement and/or any payments that may be due pursuant to this Agreement.

                  (l) RIGHT TO ENTER AGREEMENT. Executive represents and
covenants to Company that he has full power and authority to enter into this
Agreement and that the execution of this Agreement will not breach or constitute
a default of any other agreement or contract to which he is a party or by which
he is bound.

                  (m) EXTENSION OF POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS. In the event
Executive breaches Sections 5(b), (d), or (e) above, the restrictive time
periods contained in those provisions will be extended by the period of time
Executive was in violation of such provisions.


                  (n) ENFORCEABILITY. The agreements contained in Section 5 are
independent of the other agreements contained herein. Accordingly, failure of
the Company to comply with any of its obligations outside of this Section do not
excuse Executive from complying with the agreements contained herein.

                  (o) SURVIVABILITY. The agreements contained in Sections 5
shall survive the termination of this Agreement for any reason.

         6. CONSULTING AGREEMENT. Effective upon Executives termination of
employment for any reason other than Executives termination by the Company for
Cause, HCC hereby retains Executive as a consultant (an independent contractor
and not as an employee) for a period of five (5) years (the "Consulting
Period"). During the Consulting Period, Executive shall have the sole option to
cease acting as Executive Chairman of the Board and shall thereafter serve as
Non-Executive Chairman of the Board. Termination of the Term shall not effect
the Parties' rights and obligations under this Section 6, subject to the
following: Executive agrees to provide, if requested, 1,000 hours of service
(the "Consulting Services") per year, as required by the Company. Prior to a
Change of Control, the Company shall use its best effort to cause Executive to
continue as a Director and Chairman of the Board during the term of the
Consulting Period. HCC shall pay Executive $450,000 per year of the Consulting
Period, payable quarterly, in advance. Executive may elect to delay payment for
services, but not the services themselves. During such Consulting Period,
Executive shall receive, to the extent permitted by law and the terms of any
existing plan, all of the Company's benefits as if Executive was a full time
employee. In addition, the terms of this Section 6 shall remain in full force
and effect whether or not Executive dies or suffers a Disability pursuant to the
terms hereof during the Consulting Period. Further, if at any time during the
Term of this Agreement Executive shall elect, at his sole option, to cease being
a full time employee, then and in that event, Executive shall become a
consultant pursuant to the terms of this Section. During the Consulting


                                       12
<PAGE>


Period, Executive shall have the right to the same benefits for the same
purposes and to the same extent as were in effect during the term of this
Agreement, provided, however, if Executive ceases to be the Executive Chairman,
Executive shall no longer receive Deferred Compensation.. The Consulting
Services to be provided shall be commensurate with Executive's training,
background, experience and prior duties with the Company. Executive shall
receive such stock options or cash bonuses as the Compensation Committee, in its
sole discretion shall determine. Executive agrees to make himself reasonably
available to provide such Consulting Services during the Consulting Period;
provided, however, the Company agrees that it shall provide reasonable advance
notice to Executive of its expected consulting needs and any request for
Consulting Services hereunder shall not unreasonably interfere with Executive's
other business activities and personal affairs as determined in good faith by
Executive. In addition, Executive shall not be required to perform any requested
Consulting Services which, in Executive's good faith opinion, would cause
Executive to breach any fiduciary duty or contractual obligation Executive may
have to another employer. Further, during the Consulting Period, Executive shall
not be subject to any non-competition provisions except for the two-year period
provided for in Section 5(c). Unless waived by Executive, Executive shall not be
required to perform Consulting Services for more than four (4) days during any
week or for more than eight (8) hours during any day. Executives travel time
shall constitute hours of Consulting Services for purposes of this Section 6.
The Parties contemplate that, when appropriate, the Consulting Services shall be
performed at Executive's office or residence and at the Company's executive
offices in Houston, Texas and may be performed at such other locations only as
they may mutually agree upon. Executive shall be properly reimbursed for all
travel and other expenses reasonably incurred by Executive in rendering the
Consulting Services.

         7. ASSIGNMENT. This Agreement cannot be assigned by Executive. The
Company may assign this Agreement only to a successor (whether direct or
indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or
substantially all of the business and assets of the Company provided such
successor expressly agrees in writing reasonably satisfactory to Executive to
assume and perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that
the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession and assignment
had taken place. Failure of the Company to obtain such written agreement prior
to the effectiveness of any such succession shall be a material breach of this
Agreement.

         8. BINDING AGREEMENT. Executive understands that his obligations under
this Agreement are binding upon Executive's heirs, successors, personal
representatives, and legal representatives.

         9. NOTICES. All notices pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing
and sent certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed as set forth below,
or by delivering the same in person to such party, or by transmission by
facsimile to the number set forth below (which shall not constitute notice).
Notice deposited in the United States Mail, mailed in the manner described
herein above, shall be effective upon deposit. Notice given in any other manner
shall be effective only if and when received:

         If to Executive:              Stephen L. Way
                                       10 East Bend Lane


                                       13
<PAGE>


                                       Houston, Texas 77007
                                       Fax: (713) 864-2822

         If to Company:                HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.
                                       13403 Northwest Freeway
                                       Houston, Texas 77040
                                       Fax: (713) 462-2401
                                       Attention: General Counsel

         with a copy (which shall      Arthur S. Berner, Esq.
         not constitute notice) to:    Haynes and Boone, LLP
         1000 Louisiana Street,        Suite 4300
                                       Houston, Texas 77002-5012
                                       Fax: (713) 236-5652

         10. WAIVER. No waiver by either party to this Agreement of any right to
enforce any term or condition of this Agreement, or of any breach hereof, shall
be deemed a waiver of such right in the future or of any other right or remedy
available under this Agreement.

         11. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to
be void, invalid, unenforceable, or against public policy, such provisions shall
be deemed severable from the Agreement, and the remaining provisions of the
Agreement will remain unaffected and in full force and effect.

         12. ARBITRATION. In the event any dispute arises out of Executive's
employment with or by the Company, or separation/termination therefrom, whether
as an employee or as a consultant which cannot be resolved by the Parties to
this Agreement, such dispute shall be submitted to final and binding
arbitration. The arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the National
Rules for the resolution of Employment Disputes of the American Arbitration
Association ("AAA"). If the Parties cannot agree on an arbitrator, a list of
seven (7) arbitrators will be requested from AAA, and the arbitrator will be
selected using alternate strikes with Executive striking first. The cost of the
arbitration will be shared equally by Executive and Company; provided, however,
the Company shall promptly reimburse Executive for all costs and expenses
incurred in connection with any dispute in an amount up to, but not exceeding
twenty percent (20%) of Executives Base Salary (or, if the dispute arises during
the Consulting Period, Executive's Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to
the beginning of the Consulting Period) unless such termination was for Cause in
which event Executive shall not be entitled to reimbursement unless and until it
is determined he was terminated other than for Cause. Arbitration of such
disputes is mandatory and in lieu of any and all civil causes of action and
lawsuits either party may have against the other arising out of Executive's
employment with Company, or separation therefrom. Such arbitration shall be held
in Houston, Texas.

         13. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. The terms and provisions contained herein shall
constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to Executive's
employment with Company during the time period covered by this Agreement. This
Agreement replaces and supersedes any and all


                                       14
<PAGE>


existing Agreements entered into between Executive and the Company relating
generally to the same subject matter, if any, and shall be binding upon
Executive's heirs, executors, administrators, or other legal representatives or
assigns.

         14. MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT. This Agreement may not be changed or
modified or released or discharged or abandoned or otherwise terminated, in
whole or in part, except by an instrument in writing signed by the Executive and
an officer or other authorized executive of Company.

         15. EFFECTIVE DATE. It is understood by Executive that this Agreement
shall be effective when signed by both Company and Executive.

         16. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Texas.

         17. JURISDICTION AND VENUE. With respect to any litigation regarding
this Agreement, Executive agrees to venue in the state or federal courts in
Harris County, Texas, and agrees to waive and does hereby waive any defenses
and/or arguments based upon improper venue and/or lack of personal jurisdiction.
By entering into this Agreement, Executive agrees to personal jurisdiction in
the state and federal courts in Harris County, Texas.


                [REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK]



                                       15
<PAGE>



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement in
multiple copies, effective as of the date first written above.


EXECUTIVE                                   COMPANY

                                            HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.


 /s/ Stephen L. Way                         By:  /s/ Walter J. Lack
- ---------------------------------              ---------------------------------
  STEPHEN L. WAY                                  WALTER J. LACK,
                                                  Chairman of the Compensation
                                                  Committee


Date: March 26, 2003                        Date: March 26, 2003
    -----------------------------                ------------------------------










                  [SIGNATURE PAGE OF WAY EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT]







</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.16
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>h03402exv10w16.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - CRAIG J. KELBEL
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.16


                              EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT


         This EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into effective as of
the 10th day of January, 2002 (the "Effective Date"), between HCC INSURANCE
HOLDINGS, INC. ("HCC" or the "Company"), and CRAIG J. KELBEL ("Executive"),
sometimes collectively referred to herein as the "Parties."

                                R E C I T A L S:

         WHEREAS, Executive is to be employed as an Executive Vice President;

         WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Board of Directors of HCC (the
"Board") to directly engage Executive as an officer of HCC and its Subsidiaries;

         WHEREAS, Executive is desirous of committing himself to serve HCC on
the terms herein provided; and

         WHEREAS, Executive has previously entered into an Employment Agreement
dated as of the 4th day of June, 1999 (the "1999 Agreement"), which such
agreement, having been made with HCC Benefits Corporation is to be terminated
hereby;

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the respective
covenants and agreements set forth below, the Parties agree as follows:

         1. TERM. Effective as of the Effective Date, the 1999 Agreement is
terminated in its entirety and the Company hereby agrees to employ Executive as
an Executive Vice President, and Executive hereby agrees to accept such
employment, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, for the period
commencing on the Effective Date and expiring as of 11:59 p.m. on December 31,
2005 (the "Basic Term") (unless sooner terminated as hereinafter set forth).

         2. DUTIES.

         (a) DUTIES AS EMPLOYEE OF THE COMPANY. Executive shall, subject to the
supervision of the President of the Company, act as an Executive Vice President
of HCC in the ordinary course of its business with all such powers with respect
to such management and control as may be reasonably incident to such
responsibilities. During normal business hours, Executive shall devote his full
time and attention to diligently attending to the business of the Company during
the Basic Term. During the Basic Term, Executive shall not directly or
indirectly render any services of a business, commercial, or professional nature
to any other person, firm, corporation, or organization, whether for
compensation or otherwise, without the prior written consent of the President of
HCC. However, Executive shall have the right to engage in such activities as may
be appropriate in order to manage his personal investments so long as such
activities do not materially interfere or conflict with the performance of his
duties to the Company hereunder. The conduct of such activity shall not be
deemed to materially interfere or conflict with Executive's performance of


<PAGE>

his duties until Executive has been notified in writing thereof and given a
reasonable period in which to cure the same.

            (b) OTHER DUTIES. If elected, Executive agrees to serve as a member
of such managerial Committees of HCC and of any of its Subsidiaries and in one
or more executive offices of any of HCC's Subsidiaries, provided Executive is
indemnified for serving in any and all such capacities in a manner acceptable to
the Company and Executive. If elected, Executive agrees that he shall not be
entitled to receive any compensation for serving as a director of HCC, or in any
capacities of HCC's Subsidiaries other than the compensation to be paid to
Executive by the Company pursuant to this Agreement.

         3. COMPENSATION AND RELATED MATTERS.

            (a) BASE SALARY. Executive shall receive a base salary paid by the
Company as follows: $425,000 for 2002; $450,000 for 2003; $475,000 for 2004; and
$500,000 for 2005 to be paid in substantially equal monthly installments. For
purposes of this Agreement, "Base Salary" shall mean the Executive's initial
base salary and, as increased, the increased base salary.

            (b) BONUS PAYMENTS. Pursuant to the 1999 Agreement, Executive was to
receive payments of $100,000 in each of 2002 and 2003. Executive will be paid
$200,000 on January 2, 2002 in full settlement of such payments. In addition,
Executive shall be entitled to receive a bonus in the amount of $10,000 for each
Subsidiary (defined below) which achieves on an annual basis pre-tax net
earnings equal to the approved budget for such Subsidiary. In addition,
Executive shall be entitled to an additional bonus of $50,000 if the total on an
annual basis for all of such Subsidiaries' pre-tax net earnings exceeds, in the
aggregate, the budget for such Subsidiaries. For purposes of this Agreement,
Subsidiary shall mean HCC Employee Benefits; Rattner McKenzie Ltd.; HCC
Benefits; PIA, ASU and LDG Re (run off only).

            (c) OPTIONS. Executive shall receive options to acquire 100,000
shares of HCC Common Stock. Such options shall become vested in four equal
installments of 25,000 shares commencing January 1, 2003, and on each January 1
thereafter. The option shall terminate on December 31, 2007. The option grant
price shall be determined in accordance with the Company's Stock Option Plan on
the date of grant which shall be no later than January 30, 2002.

            (d) EXPENSES. During the Basic Term, Executive shall be entitled to
receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by him (in
accordance with the policies and procedures established by the Board for the
Company's senior executive officers) in performing services hereunder, provided
that Executive properly accounts therefor in accordance with Company policy.

            (e) OTHER BENEFITS. Executive shall be entitled to participate in or
receive benefits under any compensation, employee benefit plan, or other
arrangement made generally available by the Company now or in the future to its
senior executive officers, subject to and on a basis consistent with the terms,
conditions, and overall administration of such plan or arrangement. Nothing paid
to Executive under any plan or arrangement presently in effect or made available
in the future shall be deemed to be in lieu of the Base Salary payable to
Executive pursuant to Paragraph (a) of this


                                       2
<PAGE>

Section. The Company shall not make any changes in any employee benefit plans or
other arrangements in effect on the date hereof or subsequently in effect in
which Executive currently or in the future participates (including, without
limitation, each pension and retirement plan, supplemental pension and
retirement plan, savings and profit sharing plan, stock or unit ownership plan,
stock or unit purchase plan, stock or unit option plan, life insurance plan,
medical insurance plan, disability plan, dental plan, health and accident plan,
or any other similar plan or arrangement) that would adversely affect
Executive's rights or benefits thereunder, unless such change occurs pursuant to
a program applicable generally to executives of the Company and does not result
in a proportionately greater reduction in the rights of or benefits to Executive
as compared with any other executive of the Company. Executive shall be entitled
to be reimbursed for temporary housing through February 15, 2002, in connection
with Executive's relocation to Houston, Texas.

            (f) VACATIONS. Executive shall be entitled to twenty (20) paid
vacation days per year during the Basic Term. There shall be no carryover of
unused vacation from year to year. For purposes of this Paragraph, weekends
shall not count as vacation days, and Executive shall also be entitled to all
paid holidays given by the Company to its senior executive officers.

            (g) PERQUISITES. Executive shall be entitled to receive the
perquisites and fringe benefits provided generally to an executive officer of
HCC in accordance with any practice established by the Board. Notwithstanding,
and in addition to any perquisites to which Executive is entitled pursuant to
the preceding sentence, Executive shall: (1) have a $1,000 per month automobile
allowance to be utilized by Executive to pay expenses related to Executive's use
of his automobile, including gasoline, insurance, and maintenance; (2) be
reimbursed for all dues at the Lochinvar Country Club; and (3) be entitled to
travel on first-class if traveling domestically and business class if traveling
internationally, and shall be required to use upgraded tickets if available.

            (h) PRORATION. Any payments or benefits payable to Executive
hereunder in respect of any calendar year during which Executive is employed by
the Company for less than the entire year, unless otherwise provided in the
applicable plan or arrangement, shall be prorated in accordance with the number
of days in such calendar year during which he is so employed. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, any payments pursuant to Paragraph 4(c) or 4(d) this Agreement
shall not be subject to proration.

            (i) CONSULTING. Effective January 1, 2006, unless this Agreement has
been renewed, Executive shall become a consultant to the Company for the period
(the "Consulting Period") beginning on such date and ending on December 31, of
such year equal to the number of full years Executive was a full-time employee
of the Company commencing January 1, 2002. So, as an example, if Executive
worked until December 31, 2005 (or four full years), the Consulting Period would
be four years. Executive shall receive an annual consulting fee of $50,000 and
be required to perform 250 hours of consulting services (the "Consulting
Services"). The Consulting Services to be provided shall be commensurate with
Executive's training, background, experience and prior duties with the Company.
Executive agrees to make himself reasonably available to provide such Consulting
Services during the Consulting Period; provided, however, the Company agrees
that it shall provide reasonable advance notice to Executive of its expected
consulting needs and any request for Consulting Services hereunder shall not
unreasonably interfere with Executive's other business activities and personal
affairs, as determined in good faith by Executive. In addition,


                                       3
<PAGE>

Executive shall not be required to perform any requested Consulting Services
which, in Executive's good faith opinion, would cause Executive to breach any
fiduciary duty or contractual obligation Executive may have to another employer.
Executive's travel time shall constitute hours of Consulting Services for
purposes of this Paragraph. The Parties contemplate that, when appropriate, the
Consulting Services shall be performed at Executive's office, residence or at
the Company's executive offices in Houston, Texas and may be performed at such
other locations only as they may mutually agree upon. Executive shall be
promptly reimbursed for all travel and other expenses reasonably incurred by
Executive in rendering the Consulting Services. Other than the consulting fee,
Executive shall be entitled to no further benefits from the Company. Executive
shall not be entitled to consult if he is no longer employed by the Company at
the time the Consulting Period is to begin, unless Executive has been terminated
without Cause. In the event Executive dies or becomes disabled during the
Consulting Period, Executive or his legal representative shall continue to
receive the annual consulting fee for the remainder of the Consulting Period.
The Company's obligation to retain Executive as a Consultant shall immediately
terminate if Executive violates the non-competition, non-solicitation or
confidentiality provisions of this Agreement, or if after such non-competition
period, Executive competes during the Consulting Period

         4. TERMINATION.

            (a) DEFINITIONS.

                  (1) "CAUSE" shall mean:

                           (i) Material dishonesty which is not the result of an
         inadvertent or innocent mistake of Executive with respect to the
         Company or any of its Subsidiaries;

                           (ii) Willful misfeasance or nonfeasance of duty by
         Executive intended to injure or having the effect of injuring in some
         material fashion the reputation, business, or business relationships of
         the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective
         officers, directors, or employees;

                           (iii) Material violation by Executive of any material
         term of this Agreement;

                           (iv) Conviction of Executive of any felony, any crime
         involving moral turpitude or any crime other than a vehicular offense
         which could reflect in some material fashion unfavorably upon the
         Company or any of its Subsidiaries.

         Executive may not be terminated for Cause unless and until there has
         been delivered to Executive written notice from the Board supplying the
         particulars of his acts or omissions that the Board believes constitute
         Cause, a reasonable period of time (not less than 30 days) has been
         given to Executive after such notice to either cure the same or to meet
         with the Board with his attorney if so desired by Executive, and
         following which the Board furnishes to Executive a written resolution
         specifying in detail its findings that Executive has been terminated
         for Cause as of the date set forth in the notice to Executive.


                                       4
<PAGE>

                  (2) A "CHANGE OF CONTROL" shall be deemed to have occurred if:

                           (i) Any "person" or "group" (within the meaning of
         Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934)
         other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an
         employee benefit plan of the Company becomes the "beneficial owner" (as
         defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934),
         directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the Company's then
         outstanding voting common stock; or

                           (ii) The shareholders of the Company approve a merger
         or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than
         a merger or consolidation (a) in which a majority of the directors of
         the surviving entity were directors of the Company prior to such
         consolidation or merger, or (b) which would result in the voting
         securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto
         continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being
         changed into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 50%
         of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the surviving
         entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or

                           (iii) The shareholders approve a plan of complete
         liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition
         by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.

                  (3) A "DISABILITY" shall mean the absence of Executive from
         Executive's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180
         consecutive days, or 180 days in a 365-day period, as a result of
         incapacity due to mental or physical illness which results in the
         Executive being unable to perform the essential functions of his
         position, with or without reasonable accommodation.

                  (4) A "GOOD REASON" shall mean any of the following (without
         Executive's express written consent):

                           (i) Within six (6) months following a Change of
         Control, there is a material alteration in the nature or status of
         Executive's duties or responsibilities, or the assignment of duties or
         responsibilities inconsistent with, Executive's status, duties or
         responsibilities (a "Material Alteration");

                           (ii) A failure by the Company to continue in effect
         any employee benefit plan in which Executive was participating, or the
         taking of any action by the Company that would adversely affect
         Executive's participation in, or materially reduce Executive's benefits
         under, any such employee benefit plan, unless such failure or such
         taking of any action adversely affects the management of the Company
         generally;

                           (iii) Executive's relocation to any place, other than
         the executive offices as a result of the Company relocating its
         executive offices, exceeding a distance of fifty (50) miles from the
         Company's current executive office located in Houston, Texas, except
         for reasonably required travel by Executive on the Company's business;


                                       5

<PAGE>

                           (iv) Any material breach by the Company of any
         material provision of this Agreement; or

                           (v) Any failure by the Company to obtain the
         assumption and performance of this Agreement by any successor (by
         merger, consolidation, or otherwise) or assign of the Company.

However, Good Reason shall exist with respect to an above specified matter only
if (i) such matter relates to subparagraphs (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) hereof, and
it is not corrected by the Company within thirty (30) days after the Company's
receipt of written notice of such matter from Executive or (ii) if there is a
Material Alteration and it relates to subparagraph (i) hereof, such matter is
not corrected after receipt of written notice by the later of thirty (30)days
following receipt of the written notice, or six months following the Change of
Control; and in no event shall a termination by Executive occurring more than
the later of ninety (90) days following the date of the event described above or
sixty (60) days after the end of the six months following a Change of Control be
a termination for Good Reason due to such event.

                  (5) "TERMINATION DATE" shall mean the date Executive
terminates or is terminated for any reason pursuant to this Agreement.

            (b) TERMINATION WITHOUT CAUSE OR FOR GOOD REASON: BENEFITS. In the
event there is a termination by the Company without Cause, or if Executive
terminates for Good Reason (a "Termination Event"), this Agreement shall
terminate and Executive shall be entitled to the following severance benefits:

                  (1) For the remainder of the Basic Term after the Termination
         Date, Base Salary (as defined in Paragraph 3(a)), at the rate in effect
         immediately prior to the Termination Event, payable in a lump sum,
         appropriately discounted to take into consideration the lump sum early
         payment;

                  (2) If there is a Termination Event, any stock options ("Stock
         Awards") which Executive has received under this Agreement or otherwise
         shall vest immediately and all such Stock Awards shall be exercisable
         for thirty (30) days from the date of such Termination Event or the
         remainder of their term, whichever is less;

                  (3) To the extent not theretofore paid or provided, the
         Company shall timely pay or provide to Executive any other amounts or
         benefits required to be paid or provided or which Executive is eligible
         to receive under any plan, program, policy or practice, or contract or
         agreement of the Company and its affiliated companies for the period of
         time equal to the lesser of six months following Executive's
         Termination or the date Executive begins new employment. The Company,
         at its sole expense, shall continue to provide (through its own plan
         and/or individual policies) Executive (and Executive's dependents) with
         health benefits no less favorable than the group health plan benefits
         provided generally during such period to the senior executive officers
         of the Company or any


                                       6

<PAGE>

         affiliated company (to the extent any such coverage or benefits are
         taxable to Executive by reason of being provided under a self-insured
         health plan of the Company or an affiliate, the Company shall make
         Executive "whole" for the same on an after-tax basis), provided,
         however, such coverage shall be secondary to any group health plan
         coverage Executive (or his dependents) receive from another employer,
         (such other amounts and benefits shall be hereinafter referred to as
         the "Other Benefits");

                  (4) All accrued compensation and unreimbursed expenses through
         the Termination Date. Such amounts shall be paid to Executive in a lump
         sum in cash within thirty (30) days after the Termination Date; and

                  (5) Executive shall be free to accept other employment during
         such period, and there shall be no offset of any employment
         compensation earned by Executive in such other employment during such
         period against payments due Executive under this Paragraph (4), and
         there shall be no offset in any compensation received from such other
         employment against the Base Salary set forth above.

            (c) TERMINATION IN EVENT OF DEATH: BENEFITS. If Executive's
employment is terminated by reason of Executive's death during the Basic Term,
this Agreement shall terminate without further obligation to Executive's legal
representatives under this Agreement, other than for payment of all accrued
compensation, unreimbursed expenses, the timely payment or provision of Other
Benefits through the date of death. Such amounts shall be paid to Executive's
estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within ninety (90)
days after the date of death. In addition, Executive's legal representatives
shall receive, at the same time as if Executive were still an employee,
Executive's Base Salary for the lesser of one (1) year or the date this
Agreement would otherwise have terminated. With respect to the provision of
Other Benefits, the term Other Benefits as used in this Paragraph 4(c) shall
include, without limitation, and Executive's estate and/or beneficiaries shall
be entitled to receive, benefits at least equal to the most favorable benefits
provided by the Company to the estates and beneficiaries of other executive
level employees of the Company under such plans, programs, practices, and
policies relating to death benefits, if any, as in effect with respect to other
executives and their beneficiaries at any time during the 120-day period
immediately preceding the date of death. Additionally, all Stock Awards shall be
vested immediately and shall be exercisable for the later of one year after the
date of such vesting or the remaining term of such option.

            (d) TERMINATION IN EVENT OF DISABILITY: BENEFITS. If Executive's
employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Disability during the Basic
Term, this Agreement shall terminate but the Company shall continue to pay the
Base Salary for a period of three (3) months and thereafter shall make such
additional payment for the Term so that the after tax effect of Executive's
compensation is the same as before the Disability. Executive shall, not be
entitled to any subsequent cash or stock bonuses. In addition, all outstanding
Stock Awards shall vest immediately upon such termination due to Disability and
shall be exercisable for one year after the date of such vesting. Executive's
Benefits shall continue to the end of the Basic Term.


                                       7

<PAGE>

            (e) VOLUNTARY TERMINATION BY EMPLOYEE AND TERMINATION FOR CAUSE:
BENEFITS. Executive may terminate his employment with the Company without Good
Reason by giving written notice of his intent and stating an effective
Termination Date at least ninety (90) days after the date of such notice;
provided, however, that the Company may accelerate such effective date by paying
Executive through the proposed Termination Date and also vesting awards that
would have vested but for this acceleration of the proposed Termination Date.
Upon such a termination by Executive or upon termination for Cause by the
Company, this Agreement shall terminate and the Company shall pay to Executive
all accrued compensation, unreimbursed expenses and the Other Benefits through
the Termination Date. Such amounts shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum in
cash within thirty (30) days after the date of termination. In addition, all
unvested stock options shall terminate and all vested options will terminate
fifteen (15) days after the Termination Date.

            (f) DIRECTOR POSITIONS. Executive agrees that upon termination of
employment, for any reason, at the request of the Chairman of the Board,
Executive will immediately tender his resignation from any and all Board
positions held with the Company and/or any of its Subsidiaries and affiliates.

         5. NON-COMPETITION, NON-SOLICITATION, AND CONFIDENTIALITY. Executive
recognizes and agrees that the benefit of not being employed at-will, is
provided in consideration for, among other things, the agreements contained in
this Section, as well as the Stock Awards granted to Executive pursuant to this
Agreement. The Company agrees that while employed pursuant to this Agreement,
Executive will be provided with confidential information of Company; specialized
training on how to perform his duties; and contact with the Company's customers
and potential customers.

            (a) NON-COMPETITION DURING EMPLOYMENT. Executive agrees that during
the Basic Term, he will not compete with the Company by engaging in the
conception, design, development, production, marketing, or servicing of any
product or service that is substantially similar to the products or services
which the Company provides, and that he will not work for, in any capacity,
assist, or become affiliated with as an owner, partner, etc., either directly or
indirectly, any individual or business which offers or performs services, or
offers or provides products substantially similar to the services and products
provided by Company, provided, Executive shall not be prevented from owning no
more than 2% of any Company whose stock is publicly traded.

            (b) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST. Executive agrees that during the Basic
Term, he will not engage, either directly or indirectly, in any activity (a
"Conflict of Interest") which might adversely affect the Company or its
affiliates, including ownership of a material interest in any supplier,
contractor, distributor, subcontractor, customer or other entity with which the
Company does business or accepting any material payment, service, loan, gift,
trip, entertainment, or other favor from a supplier, contractor, distributor,
subcontractor, customer or other entity with which the Company does business,
and that Executive will promptly inform the President of the Company as to each
offer received by Executive to engage in any such activity. Executive further
agrees to disclose to the Company any other facts of which Executive becomes
aware which in Executive's good faith judgment could reasonably be expected to
involve or give rise to a Conflict of Interest or potential Conflict of
Interest.


                                       8

<PAGE>

            (c) NON-COMPETITION AFTER TERMINATION. Executive agrees that
Executive shall not, at any time during the period of two (2) years after the
later of termination of the Basic Term for any reason, within any of the markets
in which the Company has sold products or services or formulated a plan to sell
products or services into a market during the last twelve (12) months of
Executive's employ or which the Company enters into within three (3) months
thereafter, engage in or contribute Executive's knowledge to any work which is
competitive with or similar to a product, process, apparatus, service, or
development on which Executive worked or with respect to which Executive had
access to Confidential Information while employed by the Company. Following the
expiration of said two (2) year period, Executive shall continue to be obligated
under the Confidential Information Paragraph of this Agreement not to use or to
disclose Confidential Information of the Company so long as it shall not be
publicly available. It is understood that the geographical area set forth in
this covenant is divisible so that if this clause is invalid or unenforceable in
an included geographic area, that area is severable and the clause remains in
effect for the remaining included geographic areas in which the clause is valid.

            (d) CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Executive further agrees that he will
not, except as the Company may otherwise consent or direct in writing, reveal or
disclose, sell, use, lecture upon, publish or otherwise disclose to any third
party any Confidential Information or proprietary information of the Company, or
authorize anyone else to do these things at any time either during or subsequent
to his employment with the Company. This Section shall continue in full force
and effect after termination of Executive's employment and after the termination
of this Agreement. Executive's obligations under this Paragraph with respect to
any specific Confidential Information and proprietary information shall cease
when that specific portion of the Confidential Information and proprietary
information becomes publicly known, in its entirety and without combining
portions of such information obtained separately. It is understood that such
Confidential Information and proprietary information of the Company include
matters that Executive conceives or develops, as well as matters Executive
learns from other employees of Company. Confidential Information is defined to
include information: (1) disclosed to or known by the Executive as a consequence
of or through his employment with the Company; (2) not generally known outside
the Company; and (3) which relates to any aspect of the Company or its business,
finances, operation plans, budgets, research, or strategic development.
"Confidential Information" includes, but is not limited to the Company's trade
secrets, proprietary information, financial documents, long range plans,
customer lists, employer compensation, marketing strategy, data bases, costing
data, computer software developed by the Company, investments made by the
Company, and any information provided to the Company by a third party under
restrictions against disclosure or use by the Company or others.

            (e) RETURN OF DOCUMENTS, EQUIPMENT, ETC. All writings, records, and
other documents and things comprising, containing, describing, discussing,
explaining, or evidencing any Confidential Information, and all equipment,
components, parts, tools, and the like in Executive's custody or possession that
have been obtained or prepared in the course of Executive's employment with the
Company shall be the exclusive property of the Company, shall not be copied
and/or removed from the premises of the Company, except in pursuit of the
business of the Company, and shall be delivered to the Company, without
Executive retaining any copies, upon notification of the termination of
Executive's employment or at any other time requested by the Company. The


                                       9

<PAGE>

Company shall have the right to retain, access, and inspect all property of
Executive of any kind in the office, work area, and on the premises of the
Company upon termination of Executive's employment and at any time during
employment by the Company to ensure compliance with the terms of this Agreement.

            (f) REAFFIRM OBLIGATIONS. Upon termination of his employment with
the Company, Executive, if requested by Company, shall reaffirm in writing
Executive's recognition of the importance of maintaining the confidentiality of
the Company's Confidential Information and proprietary information, and reaffirm
any other obligations set forth in this Agreement.

            (g) PRIOR DISCLOSURE. Executive represents and warrants that he has
not used or disclosed any Confidential Information he may have obtained from
Company prior to signing this Agreement, in any way inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement.

            (h) CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OF PRIOR COMPANIES. Executive will not
disclose or use during the period of his employment with the Company any
proprietary or Confidential Information or Copyright Works which Executive may
have acquired because of employment with an employer other than the Company or
acquired from any other third party, whether such information is in Executive's
memory or embodied in a writing or other physical form.

            (i) BREACH. Executive agrees that any breach of Paragraphs 5(a) or
(c) above cannot be remedied solely by money damages, and that in addition to
any other remedies Company may have, Company is entitled to obtain injunctive
relief against Executive. Nothing herein, however, shall be construed as
limiting Company's right to pursue any other available remedy at law or in
equity, including recovery of damages and termination of this Agreement and/or
any payments that may be due pursuant to this Agreement.

            (j) RIGHT TO ENTER AGREEMENT. Executive represents and covenants to
Company that he has full power and authority to enter into this Agreement and
that the execution of this Agreement will not breach or constitute a default of
any other agreement or contract to which he is a party or by which he is bound.

            (k) ENFORCEABILITY. The agreements contained in this Section 5 are
independent of the other agreements contained herein. Accordingly, failure of
the Company to comply with any of its obligations outside of this Paragraph do
not excuse Executive from complying with the agreements contained herein.

            (l) SURVIVABILITY. The agreements contained in Paragraphs 5(c)-(d)
shall survive the termination of this Agreement for any reason.

         6. ASSIGNMENT. This Agreement cannot be assigned by Executive. The
Company may assign this Agreement only to a successor (whether direct or
indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or
substantially all of the business and assets of the Company provided such
successor expressly agrees in writing reasonably satisfactory to Executive to
assume and perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that
the Company would be


                                       10

<PAGE>

required to perform it if no such succession and assignment had taken place.
Failure of the Company to obtain such written agreement prior to the
effectiveness of any such succession shall be a material breach of this
Agreement.

         7. BINDING AGREEMENT. Executive understands that his obligations under
this Agreement are binding upon Executive's heirs, successors, personal
representatives, and legal representatives.

         8. NOTICES. All notices pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing
and sent certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed as set forth below,
or by delivering the same in person to such party, or by transmission by
facsimile to the number set forth below (which shall not constitute notice).
Notice deposited in the United States Mail, mailed in the manner described
hereinabove, shall be effective upon deposit. Notice given in any other manner
shall be effective only if and when received:

            If to Executive:             Craig J. Kelbel

                                         -----------------------------

                                         -----------------------------
                                         Fax:
                                             -------------------------

            If to Company:               HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.
                                         13403 Northwest Freeway
                                         Houston, Texas  77040
                                         Attn: General Counsel
                                         Fax: (713) 744-9648

            with a copy (which shall     Arthur S. Berner, Esq.
            not constitute notice) to:   Haynes and Boone, LLP
                                         1000 Louisiana Street,
                                         Suite 4300
                                         Houston, Texas 77002-5012
                                         Fax: (713) 236-5652

         9. WAIVER. No waiver by either party to this Agreement of any right to
enforce any term or condition of this Agreement, or of any breach hereof, shall
be deemed a waiver of such right in the future or of any other right or remedy
available under this Agreement.

         10. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to
be void, invalid, unenforceable, or against public policy, such provisions shall
be deemed severable from the Agreement, and the remaining provisions of the
Agreement will remain unaffected and in full force and effect.

         11. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. The terms and provisions contained herein shall
constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to Executive's
employment with Company during the time period covered by this Agreement. This
Agreement replaces and supersedes any and all


                                       11
<PAGE>

existing Agreements entered into between Executive and the Company relating
generally to the same subject matter, if any, and shall be binding upon
Executive's heirs, executors, administrators, or other legal representatives or
assigns.

         12. MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT. This Agreement may not be changed or
modified or released or discharged or abandoned or otherwise terminated, in
whole or in part, except by an instrument in writing signed by the Executive and
an officer or other authorized executive of Company.

         13. UNDERSTAND AGREEMENT. Executive represents and warrants that he has
read and understood each and every provision of this Agreement, and Executive
understands that he has the right to obtain advice from legal counsel of choice,
if necessary and desired, in order to interpret any and all provisions of this
Agreement, and that Executive has freely and voluntarily entered into this
Agreement.

         14. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Texas.

         15. JURISDICTION AND VENUE. With respect to any litigation regarding
this Agreement, Executive agrees to venue in the state or federal courts in
Harris County, Texas, and agrees to waive and does hereby waive any defenses
and/or arguments based upon improper venue and/or lack of personal jurisdiction.
By entering into this Agreement, Executive agrees to personal jurisdiction in
the state and federal courts in Harris County, Texas.


                [REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK]


                                       12
<PAGE>


         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement in
multiple copies, effective as of the date first written above.

EXECUTIVE                                     COMPANY

                                              HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.


     /s/ Craig J. Kelbel                      By:   /s/ John N. Molbeck, Jr.
- --------------------------------------           -------------------------------
CRAIG J. KELBEL                                  JOHN N. MOLBECK, JR.,
                                                 President

Dated:   January 28, 2002                     Dated:    January 21, 2002
      --------------------------------              ----------------------------




                    [SIGNATURE PAGE TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT]


                                       13


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.17
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>h03402exv10w17.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - MICHAEL J. SCHELL
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.17


                              EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT


         This EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into effective as of
the 3rd day of June, 2002 (the "Effective Date"), between HCC INSURANCE
HOLDINGS, INC. ("HCC" or the "Company"), and MIKE SCHELL ("Executive"),
sometimes collectively referred to herein as the "Parties."

                                R E C I T A L S:

         WHEREAS, Executive is to be employed as Executive Vice President of HCC
and President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Houston Casualty
Company ("HC"); and, as an integral part of its management who participates in
the decision-making process relative to short and long-term planning and policy
for HCC and HC, Executive will serve on the Company's Executive Management Group
and Senior Management Group; and

         WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Boards of Directors of HCC and HC (the
"Boards") to directly engage Executive as an officer of HCC and HC; and

         WHEREAS, Executive is desirous of committing himself to serve HCC and
the Subsidiaries on the terms herein provided.

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the respective
covenants and agreements set forth below, the Parties agree as follows:

         1. TERM. Effective as of the Effective Date, the Company hereby agrees
to employ Executive as Executive Vice President of HCC and President and Chief
Executive Officer of HC, and Executive hereby agrees to accept such employment,
on the terms and conditions set forth herein, for the period commencing on the
Effective Date and expiring as of 11:59 p.m. on June 3rd, 2007 (the "Basic
Term") (unless sooner terminated as hereinafter set forth).

         2. DUTIES.

            (a) DUTIES AS EMPLOYEE OF THE COMPANY. Executive shall, subject to
the supervision of the President of the Company, or such other person as the
Board may direct, act as Executive Vice President of HCC and as President and
Chief Executive Officer of HC in the ordinary course of their business with all
such powers with respect to such management and control as may be reasonably
incident to such responsibilities. During normal business hours, Executive shall
devote his full time and attention to diligently attending to the business of
the Company and HC during the Basic Term. During the Basic Term, Executive shall
not directly or indirectly render any services of a business, commercial, or
professional nature to any other person, firm, corporation, or organization,
whether for compensation or otherwise, without the prior written consent of the
President of HCC. However, Executive shall have the right to engage in such
activities as may be appropriate in order to manage his personal investments so
long as such activities do not materially interfere or conflict with the
performance of his duties to the Company hereunder. The conduct of


<PAGE>

such activity shall not be deemed to materially interfere or conflict with
Executive's performance of his duties until Executive has been notified in
writing thereof and given a reasonable period in which to cure the same.

            (b) OTHER DUTIES. If requested, Executive agrees to serve as
President or other senior executive officer of U.S. Specialty Insurance Company
("USSIC"), HCC Life Insurance Company ("HCCL") and Avemco Insurance Company
("AIC") (collectively, HC, USSIC, HCCL and AIC are referred to herein as the
"Subsidiaries") and as a member of such management or operating committees of
HCC and any of the Subsidiaries, provided Executive is indemnified for serving
in any and all such capacities in a manner acceptable to the Company and
Executive. If elected, Executive agrees that he shall not be entitled to receive
any compensation for serving as a director of HCC or any of the Subsidiaries
other than the compensation to be paid to Executive by the Company pursuant to
this Agreement.

         3. COMPENSATION AND RELATED MATTERS.

            (a) BASE SALARY. Executive shall receive a base salary paid by the
Company as follows: $450,000 for the Basic Term in substantially equal monthly
installments. The base salary shall be increased by $25,000 on each anniversary
of the Effective Date during the Basic Term. For purposes of this Agreement,
"Base Salary" shall mean the Executive's initial base salary or, if increased,
then the increased base salary.

            (b) BONUS PAYMENTS AND OPTIONS.

                  (i) Each calendar year, Executive shall receive a bonus of
         $12,500 for each of the four Subsidiaries that has pre-tax net income
         exceeding the approved budget, plus an additional $50,000 if all of the
         Subsidiaries exceed their approved budgets. Any deficits caused by a
         Subsidiary failing to meet the pre-tax net income budget are carried
         forward for the next year, for that specific Subsidiary.

                  (ii) Executive shall receive options to acquire 200,000 shares
         of HCC Common Stock pursuant to a standard option agreement issued
         under HCC's stock option plans. Such options shall vest in five (5)
         equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of
         grant and will expire on the sixth (6th) anniversary of the date of
         grant.

            (c) EXPENSES. During the Basic Term, Executive shall be entitled to
receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by him (in
accordance with the policies and procedures established by the Board for the
Company's senior executive officers) in performing services hereunder, provided
that Executive properly accounts therefor in accordance with Company policy.

            (d) OTHER BENEFITS. Executive shall be entitled to participate in or
receive benefits under any compensation, employee benefit plan, or other
arrangement made generally available by the Company now or in the future to its
senior executive officers, subject to and on a basis consistent with the terms,
conditions, and overall administration of such plan or arrangement;


                                        2
<PAGE>

provided, however, Executive shall receive a term life insurance policy in the
amount of $1,000,000 and an AD&D insurance policy under the Company's standard
terms, also in the amount of $1,000,000. Nothing paid to Executive under any
plan or arrangement presently in effect or made available in the future shall be
deemed to be in lieu of the Base Salary payable to Executive pursuant to
Paragraph (a) of this Section. The Company shall not make any changes in any
employee benefit plans or other arrangements in effect on the date hereof or
subsequently in effect in which Executive currently or in the future
participates (including, without limitation, each pension and retirement plan,
supplemental pension and retirement plan, savings and profit sharing plan, stock
or unit ownership plan, stock or unit purchase plan, stock or unit option plan,
life insurance plan, medical insurance plan, disability plan, dental plan,
health and accident plan, or any other similar plan or arrangement) that would
adversely affect Executive's rights or benefits thereunder, unless such change
occurs pursuant to a program applicable to executives of the Company and does
not result in a proportionately greater reduction in the rights of or benefits
to Executive as compared with other executives of the Company.

            (e) VACATIONS. Executive shall be entitled to twenty (20) paid
vacation days per year during the Basic Term. There shall be no carryover of
unused vacation from year to year. For purposes of this Paragraph, weekends
shall not count as vacation days, and Executive shall also be entitled to all
paid holidays given by the Company to its senior executive officers.

            (f) PERQUISITES. Executive shall be entitled to receive the
perquisites and fringe benefits provided generally to an executive officer of
HCC in accordance with any practice established by the Board. Notwithstanding,
and in addition to, any perquisites to which Executive is entitled pursuant to
the preceding sentence, Executive shall: (i) have a car allowance of $1,000 per
month; (ii) be allowed to travel on business utilizing first class domestic
passage and business class international passage using Company mileage upgrades
(and, upon approval of the Chief Executive Officer, shall be entitled to utilize
the corporate aircraft); and (iii) receive the right to use one corporate club
membership with annual dues to be paid by HCC.

            (g) PRORATION. Any payments or benefits payable to Executive
hereunder in respect of any calendar year during which Executive is employed by
the Company for less than the entire year, unless otherwise provided in the
applicable plan or arrangement, shall be prorated in accordance with the number
of days in such calendar year during which he is so employed. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, any payments pursuant to Paragraph 4(c) or 4(d) this Agreement
shall not be subject to proration.

         4. TERMINATION.

            (a) DEFINITIONS.

                  (1) "CAUSE" shall mean:

                           (i) Material dishonesty which is not the result of an
         inadvertent or innocent mistake of Executive with respect to the
         Company or any of its subsidiaries;


                                        3
<PAGE>

                           (ii) Willful misfeasance or nonfeasance of duty by
         Executive intended to injure or having the effect of injuring in some
         material fashion the reputation, business, or business relationships of
         the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective
         officers, directors, or employees;

                           (iii) Material violation by Executive of any material
         term of this Agreement;

                           (iv) Conviction of Executive of any felony, any crime
         involving moral turpitude or any crime other than a vehicular offense
         which could reflect in some material fashion unfavorably upon the
         Company or any of its subsidiaries.

         Executive may not be terminated for Cause unless and until there has
         been delivered to Executive written notice from the Board supplying the
         particulars of his acts or omissions that the Board believes constitute
         Cause, a reasonable period of time (not less than 30 days) has been
         given to Executive after such notice to either cure the same or to meet
         with the Board with his attorney if so desired by Executive, and
         following which the Board furnishes to Executive a written resolution
         specifying in detail its findings that Executive has been terminated
         for Cause as of the date set forth in the notice to Executive.

                  (2) A "CHANGE OF CONTROL" shall be deemed to have occurred if:

                           (i) Any "person" or "group" (within the meaning of
         Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934)
         other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an
         employee benefit plan of the Company becomes the "beneficial owner" (as
         defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934),
         directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the Company's then
         outstanding voting common stock; or

                           (ii) The shareholders of the Company approve a merger
         or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than
         a merger or consolidation (a) in which a majority of the directors of
         the surviving entity were directors of the Company prior to such
         consolidation or merger, or (b) which would result in the voting
         securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto
         continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being
         changed into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 50%
         of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the surviving
         entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or

                           (iii) The shareholders approve a plan of complete
         liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition
         by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.

                  (3) A "DISABILITY" shall mean the absence of Executive from
Executive's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180 consecutive
days, or 180 days in a 365-day period, as a result of incapacity due to mental
or physical illness which results in the Executive being unable to perform the
essential functions of his position, with or without reasonable accommodation.


                                        4

<PAGE>

                  (4) A "GOOD REASON" shall mean any of the following (without
Executive's express written consent):

                           (i) Within six (6) months following a Change of
         Control, there is a material adverse alteration in the Executive's
         compensation and, in addition, a material alteration in the nature or
         status of Executive's duties or responsibilities, or the assignment of
         duties or responsibilities inconsistent with, Executive's status,
         duties or responsibilities (a "Material Alteration");

                           (ii) The taking of any action by the Company that
         would adversely affect Executive's participation in, or materially
         reduce Executive's benefits under, any such employee benefit plan,
         unless such failure or such taking of any action adversely affects the
         management of the Company generally;

                           (iii) Executive's involuntary relocation to any
         place, other than the executive offices as a result of the Company
         relocating its executive offices, exceeding a distance of fifty (50)
         miles from the Company's current executive office located in Houston,
         Texas, except for reasonably required travel by Executive on the
         Company's business;

                           (iv) Any material breach by the Company of any
         material provision of this Agreement; or

                           (v) Any failure by the Company to obtain the
         assumption and performance of this Agreement by any successor (by
         merger, consolidation, or otherwise) or assign of the Company.

However, Good Reason shall exist with respect to an above specified matter only
if (i) such matter relates to subparagraphs (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) hereof, and
it is not corrected by the Company within thirty (30) days after the Company's
receipt of written notice of such matter from Executive or (ii) if there is a
Material Alteration and it relates to subparagraph (i) hereof, such matter is
not corrected after receipt of written notice by the later of thirty (30) days
following receipt of the written notice, or six months following the Change of
Control; and in no event shall a termination by Executive occurring more than
the later of ninety (90) days following the date of the event described above or
sixty (60) days after the end of the six months following a Change of Control be
a termination for Good Reason due to such event.

                  (5) "TERMINATION DATE" shall mean the date Executive
terminates or is terminated for any reason pursuant to this Agreement.

            (b) TERMINATION WITHOUT CAUSE OR FOR GOOD REASON: BENEFITS. In the
event there is a termination by the Company without Cause, or if Executive
terminates for Good Reason (a "Termination Event"), this Agreement shall
terminate and Executive shall be entitled to the following severance benefits:

                  (1) For the remainder of the Basic Term after the Termination
Date, Base Salary (as defined in Paragraph 3(a)), at the rate in effect
immediately prior to the Termination


                                        5

<PAGE>

Event, payable in a lump sum, appropriately discounted to take into
consideration the lump sum early payment;

                  (2) If there is a Termination Event, any stock options ("Stock
Awards") which Executive has received under this Agreement or otherwise shall
vest immediately, provided, however, all such Stock Awards shall be exercisable
for ninety (90) days from the date of such Termination Event or the remainder of
their term, whichever is less;

                  (3) To the extent not theretofore paid or provided, the
Company shall timely pay or provide to Executive any other amounts or benefits
required to be paid or provided or which Executive is eligible to receive under
any plan, program, policy or practice, or contract or agreement of the Company
and its affiliated companies for the period of time equal to the lesser of six
months following Executive's Termination or the date Executive begins new
employment. The Company, at its sole expense, shall continue to provide (through
its own plan and/or individual policies) Executive (and Executive's dependents)
with health benefits no less favorable than the group health plan benefits
provided generally during such period to the senior executive officers of the
Company or any affiliated company (to the extent any such coverage or benefits
are taxable to Executive by reason of being provided under a self-insured health
plan of the Company or an affiliate, the Company shall make Executive "whole"
for the same on an after-tax basis) (such other amounts and benefits shall be
hereinafter referred to as the "Other Benefits");

                  (4) All accrued compensation and unreimbursed expenses through
the Termination Date. Such amounts shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum in
cash within thirty (30) days after the Termination Date; and

                  (5) Executive shall be free to accept other employment during
such period, and, except as set forth above, there shall be no offset of any
employment compensation earned by Executive in such other employment during such
period against payments due Executive under this Paragraph (4), and there shall
be no offset in any compensation received from such other employment against the
Base Salary set forth above.

            (c) TERMINATION IN EVENT OF DEATH: BENEFITS. If Executive's
employment is terminated by reason of Executive's death during the Basic Term,
this Agreement shall terminate without further obligation to Executive's legal
representatives under this Agreement, other than for payment of all accrued
compensation, unreimbursed expenses, the timely payment or provision of Other
Benefits through the date of death. Such amounts shall be paid to Executive's
estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within ninety (90)
days after the date of death. In addition, Executive's legal representatives
shall receive, at the same time as if Executive were still an employee,
Executive's Base Salary remaining for the Basic Term, less the face amount of
any life insurance proceeds from insurance policies provided by the Company.
With respect to the provision of Other Benefits, the term Other Benefits as used
in this Paragraph 4(c) shall include, without limitation, and Executive's estate
and/or beneficiaries shall be entitled to receive, benefits at least equal to
the most favorable benefits provided by the Company to the estates and
beneficiaries of other executive level employees of the Company under such
plans, programs, practices, and policies relating to death benefits, if any, as
in effect with respect to other executives and their beneficiaries at any time
during the 120-day period immediately preceding the date of death. Additionally,
all Stock


                                        6

<PAGE>

Awards shall be vested immediately and shall be exercisable for the earlier of
one year after the date of such vesting or the remaining term of such option.

            (d) TERMINATION IN EVENT OF DISABILITY: BENEFITS. If Executive's
employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Disability during the Basic
Term, this Agreement shall terminate but the Company shall continue to pay the
Base Salary for a period of three (3) months and thereafter shall make such
additional payment for the Basic Term so that the after tax effect of
Executive's compensation is the same as before the Disability. Executive shall
not be entitled to any subsequent cash or stock bonuses. In addition, all
outstanding Stock Awards shall vest immediately upon such termination due to
Disability and shall be exercisable for the earlier of one year after the date
of such vesting or the remaining term of such option. Executive's Benefits shall
continue to the end of the Basic Term.

            (e) VOLUNTARY TERMINATION BY EMPLOYEE AND TERMINATION FOR CAUSE:
BENEFITS. Executive may terminate his employment with the Company without Good
Reason by giving written notice of his intent and stating an effective
Termination Date at least ninety (90) days after the date of such notice;
provided, however, that the Company may accelerate such effective date by paying
Executive through the proposed Termination Date and also vesting awards that
would have vested but for this acceleration of the proposed Termination Date.
Upon such a termination by Executive or upon termination for Cause by the
Company, this Agreement shall terminate and the Company shall pay to Executive
all accrued compensation, unreimbursed expenses and the Other Benefits through
the Termination Date. Such amounts shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum in
cash within thirty (30) days after the date of termination. In addition, all
unvested Stock Awards shall terminate and all vested Stock Awards will terminate
thirty (30) days after the Termination Date.

            (f) DIRECTOR POSITIONS. Executive agrees that upon termination of
employment, for any reason, at the request of the Chairman of the Board,
Executive will immediately tender his resignation from any and all Board
positions held with the Company and/or any of its subsidiaries and affiliates.

         5. NON-COMPETITION, NON-SOLICITATION, AND CONFIDENTIALITY. Executive
recognizes and agrees that the benefit of not being employed at-will, is
provided in consideration for, among other things, the agreements contained in
this Section, as well as the Stock Awards granted to Executive pursuant to this
Agreement. The Company agrees that while employed pursuant to this Agreement,
Executive will be provided with confidential information of Company; specialized
training on how to perform his duties; and contact with the Company's customers
and potential customers.

            (a) NON-COMPETITION DURING EMPLOYMENT. Executive agrees that during
the Basic Term, he will not compete with the Company by engaging in the
conception, design, development, production, marketing, or servicing of any
product or service that is substantially similar to the products or services
which the Company provides, and that he will not work for, in any capacity,
assist, or become affiliated with as an owner, partner, etc., either directly or
indirectly, any individual or business which offers or performs services, or
offers or provides products substantially similar to the services and products
provided by Company, provided, Executive shall not be prevented from owning no
more than 2% of any Company whose stock is publicly traded.


                                        7
<PAGE>


            (b) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST. Executive agrees that during the Basic
Term, he will not engage, either directly or indirectly, in any activity (a
"Conflict of Interest") which might adversely affect the Company or its
affiliates, including ownership of a material interest in any supplier,
contractor, distributor, subcontractor, customer or other entity with which the
Company does business or accepting any material payment, service, loan, gift,
trip, entertainment, or other favor from a supplier, contractor, distributor,
subcontractor, customer or other entity with which the Company does business,
and that Executive will promptly inform the President of the Company as to each
offer received by Executive to engage in any such activity. Executive further
agrees to disclose to the Company any other facts of which Executive becomes
aware which in Executive's good faith judgment could reasonably be expected to
involve or give rise to a Conflict of Interest or potential Conflict of
Interest.

            (c) NON-COMPETITION AFTER TERMINATION. Executive agrees that
Executive shall not, at any time during the period of one (1) year after
termination for any reason, within any of the markets in which the Company has
sold products or services or formulated a plan to sell products or services into
a market during the last twelve (12) months of Executive's employ or which the
Company enters into within three (3) months thereafter, engage in or contribute
Executive's knowledge to any work which is competitive with or similar to a
product, process, apparatus, service, or development on which Executive worked
or with respect to which Executive had access to Confidential Information while
employed by the Company. Following the expiration of said one (1) year period,
Executive shall continue to be obligated under the Confidential Information
Paragraph of this Agreement not to use or to disclose Confidential Information
of the Company so long as it shall not be publicly available. It is understood
that the geographical area set forth in this covenant is divisible so that if
this clause is invalid or unenforceable in an included geographic area, that
area is severable and the clause remains in effect for the remaining included
geographic areas in which the clause is valid.

            (d) CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Executive further agrees that he will
not, except as the Company may otherwise consent or direct in writing, reveal or
disclose, sell, use, lecture upon, publish or otherwise disclose to any third
party any Confidential Information or proprietary information of the Company, or
authorize anyone else to do these things at any time either during or subsequent
to his employment with the Company. This Section shall continue in full force
and effect after termination of Executive's employment and after the termination
of this Agreement. Executive's obligations under this Paragraph with respect to
any specific Confidential Information and proprietary information shall cease
when that specific portion of the Confidential Information and proprietary
information becomes publicly known, in its entirety and without combining
portions of such information obtained separately. It is understood that such
Confidential Information and proprietary information of the Company include
matters that Executive conceives or develops, as well as matters Executive
learns from other employees of Company. Confidential Information is defined to
include information: (1) disclosed to or known by the Executive as a consequence
of or through his employment with the Company; (2) not generally known outside
the Company; and (3) which relates to any aspect of the Company or its business,
finances, operation plans, budgets, research, or strategic development.
"Confidential Information" includes, but is not limited to the Company's trade
secrets, proprietary information, financial documents, long range plans,
customer lists, employer compensation, marketing strategy, data bases, costing
data, computer software


                                        8

<PAGE>

developed by the Company, investments made by the Company, and any information
provided to the Company by a third party under restrictions against disclosure
or use by the Company or others.

            (e) NON-SOLICITATION. The Executive agrees that during his period of
employment with the Company and for a period of two (2) years after termination
of employment (for any reason), the Executive will not, directly or indirectly,
solicit, divert, or hire away or attempt to solicit, divert, or hire away any
person employed by the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates, whether or not
such person is a full-time or temporary employee of the Company, its
subsidiaries or affiliates and will not make known to any person, firm, entity,
or corporation the names and addresses of any of the employees of the Company,
its subsidiaries or affiliates or any information pertaining to the employees of
the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates.

            (f) RETURN OF DOCUMENTS, EQUIPMENT, ETC. All writings, records, and
other documents and things comprising, containing, describing, discussing,
explaining, or evidencing any Confidential Information, and all equipment,
components, parts, tools, and the like in Executive's custody or possession that
have been obtained or prepared in the course of Executive's employment with the
Company shall be the exclusive property of the Company, shall not be copied
and/or removed from the premises of the Company, except in pursuit of the
business of the Company, and shall be delivered to the Company, without
Executive retaining any copies, upon notification of the termination of
Executive's employment or at any other time requested by the Company. The
Company shall have the right to retain, access, and inspect all property of
Executive of any kind in the office, work area, and on the premises of the
Company upon termination of Executive's employment and at any time during
employment by the Company to ensure compliance with the terms of this Agreement.

            (g) REAFFIRM OBLIGATIONS. Upon termination of his employment with
the Company, Executive, if requested by Company, shall reaffirm in writing
Executive's recognition of the importance of maintaining the confidentiality of
the Company's Confidential Information and proprietary information, and reaffirm
any other obligations set forth in this Agreement.

            (h) PRIOR DISCLOSURE. Executive represents and warrants that he has
not used or disclosed any Confidential Information he may have obtained from
Company prior to signing this Agreement, in any way inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement.

            (i) CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OF PRIOR COMPANIES. Executive will not
disclose or use during the period of his employment with the Company any
proprietary or Confidential Information or Copyright Works which Executive may
have acquired because of employment with an employer other than the Company or
acquired from any other third party, whether such information is in Executive's
memory or embodied in a writing or other physical form.

            (j) BREACH. Executive agrees that any breach of Paragraphs 5(a) or
(c) above cannot be remedied solely by money damages, and that in addition to
any other remedies Company may have, Company is entitled to obtain injunctive
relief against Executive. Nothing herein, however, shall be construed as
limiting Company's right to pursue any other available remedy at law or in
equity, including recovery of damages and termination of this Agreement and/or
any payments that may be due pursuant to this Agreement.


                                        9

<PAGE>

            (k) RIGHT TO ENTER AGREEMENT. Executive represents and covenants to
Company that he has full power and authority to enter into this Agreement and
that the execution of this Agreement will not breach or constitute a default of
any other agreement or contract to which he is a party or by which he is bound.

            (l) ENFORCEABILITY. The agreements contained in this Section 5 are
independent of the other agreements contained herein. Accordingly, failure of
the Company to comply with any of its obligations outside of this Paragraph do
not excuse Executive from complying with the agreements contained herein.

            (m) SURVIVABILITY. The agreements contained in Paragraphs 5(c)-(e)
shall survive the termination of this Agreement for any reason.

         6. ASSIGNMENT. This Agreement cannot be assigned by Executive. The
Company may assign this Agreement only to a successor (whether direct or
indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or
substantially all of the business and assets of the Company provided such
successor expressly agrees in writing reasonably satisfactory to Executive to
assume and perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that
the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession and assignment
had taken place. Failure of the Company to obtain such written agreement prior
to the effectiveness of any such succession shall be a material breach of this
Agreement.

         7. BINDING AGREEMENT. Executive understands that his obligations under
this Agreement are binding upon Executive's heirs, successors, personal
representatives, and legal representatives.

         8. NOTICES. All notices pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing
and sent certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed as set forth below,
or by delivering the same in person to such party, or by transmission by
facsimile to the number set forth below (which shall not constitute notice).
Notice deposited in the United States Mail, mailed in the manner described
hereinabove, shall be effective upon deposit. Notice given in any other manner
shall be effective only if and when received:

            If to Executive:             Mike Schell
                                         3 Hampton Court
                                         Houston, Texas 77024
                                         Fax: 713-827-0642

            If to Company:               HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.
                                         13403 Northwest Freeway
                                         Houston, Texas 77040
                                         Attn: General Counsel
                                         Fax: (713) 744-9648


                                       10
<PAGE>

            with a copy (which shall     Arthur S. Berner, Esq.
            not constitute notice) to:   Haynes and Boone, LLP
                                         1000 Louisiana Street,
                                         Suite 4300
                                         Houston, Texas 77002-5012
                                         Fax: (713) 236-5652

         9. WAIVER. No waiver by either party to this Agreement of any right to
enforce any term or condition of this Agreement, or of any breach hereof, shall
be deemed a waiver of such right in the future or of any other right or remedy
available under this Agreement.

         10. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to
be void, invalid, unenforceable, or against public policy, such provisions shall
be deemed severable from the Agreement, and the remaining provisions of the
Agreement will remain unaffected and in full force and effect.

         11. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. The terms and provisions contained herein shall
constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to Executive's
employment with Company during the time period covered by this Agreement. This
Agreement replaces and supersedes any and all existing Agreements entered into
between Executive and the Company relating generally to the same subject matter,
if any, and shall be binding upon Executive's heirs, executors, administrators,
or other legal representatives or assigns.

         12. MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT. This Agreement may not be changed or
modified or released or discharged or abandoned or otherwise terminated, in
whole or in part, except by an instrument in writing signed by the Executive and
an officer or other authorized executive of Company.

         13. UNDERSTAND AGREEMENT. Executive represents and warrants that he has
read and understood each and every provision of this Agreement, and Executive
understands that he has the right to obtain advice from legal counsel of choice,
if necessary and desired, in order to interpret any and all provisions of this
Agreement, and that Executive has freely and voluntarily entered into this
Agreement.

         14. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Texas.

         15. JURISDICTION AND VENUE. With respect to any litigation regarding
this Agreement, Executive agrees to venue in the state or federal courts in
Harris County, Texas, and agrees to waive and does hereby waive any defenses
and/or arguments based upon improper venue and/or lack of personal jurisdiction.
By entering into this Agreement, Executive agrees to personal jurisdiction in
the state and federal courts in Harris County, Texas.


                                       11
<PAGE>

                  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement
in multiple copies, effective as of the date first written above.

EXECUTIVE                                    COMPANY

                                             HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.


   /s/ Mike Schell                           By:   /s/ Stephen L. Way
- ------------------------------------            --------------------------------
Mike Schell                                     STEPHEN L. WAY,
                                                Chief Executive Officer and
                                                Chairman of the Board

Dated:     December 25, 2002                 Dated:    November 18, 2002
      ------------------------------               -----------------------------




                     SIGNATURE PAGE TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT


                                       12


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.19
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>h03402exv10w19.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - CHRISTOPHER L. MARTIN
<TEXT>
<PAGE>



                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.19

                              EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT


         This EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into effective as of
the 1st day of January, 2003 (the "Effective Date"), between HCC Insurance
Holdings, Inc. and Christopher L. Martin ("Executive"). As used herein, the
"Company" shall mean HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. ("HCC") and any direct or
indirect subsidiary of HCC, which may change from time-to-time, for which
Executive devotes from time-to-time the substantial portion of his efforts. HCC,
Executive and the Company are sometimes collectively referred to herein as the
"Parties" and individually as a "Party."

                                R E C I T A L S:

         WHEREAS, Executive is to be employed as an officer or key employee of
the Company;

         WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Company to engage Executive as an
officer or key employee of the Company;

         WHEREAS, Executive is desirous of being employed by the Company on the
terms herein provided; and

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the respective
covenants and agreements set forth below, the Parties agree as follows:

         1. TERM. Effective as of the Effective Date, Executive's previous
employment agreement dated October 1, 2000, as amended, is terminated, and the
Company hereby employs Executive, and Executive hereby accepts such employment,
on the terms and conditions set forth herein, for the period (the "Basic Term")
commencing on the Effective Date and expiring at 11:59 p.m. on December 31, 2005
(unless sooner terminated as hereinafter set forth).

         2. DUTIES.

                  (A) DUTIES AS EMPLOYEE OF THE COMPANY. Executive shall,
subject to the supervision of Chief Executive Officer of the Company or such
other person designated by such Chief Executive Officer, act as an officer or
key employee of the Company in the ordinary course of its business with all such
powers with respect to such management and control as may be reasonably incident
to such responsibilities. During the Basic Term, Executive's duties and title
may be changed but the compensation provided for in Section 3 from time-to-time
shall not be reduced. During normal business hours, Executive shall devote
his/her full time and attention to diligently attending to the business of the
Company. During the Basic Term, Executive shall not directly or indirectly
render any services of a business, commercial, or professional nature to any
other person, firm, corporation, or organization, whether for compensation or
otherwise, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of
the Company. However, Executive shall have the right to engage in such
activities as may be appropriate in order to manage his personal investments so
long as such activities do not materially interfere or conflict with the
performance of his duties to the


<PAGE>


Company hereunder. The conduct of such activity shall not be deemed to
materially interfere or conflict with Executive's performance of his duties
until Executive has been notified in writing thereof and given a reasonable
period in which to cure the same.

                  (B) OTHER DUTIES. If elected, Executive agrees to serve as a
member of such managerial Committees of the Company and of any of its direct or
indirect parents or subsidiaries (collectively "Affiliates") and in one or more
executive offices of any of the Company's Affiliates, provided Executive is
indemnified for serving in any and all such capacities in a manner acceptable to
the Company and Executive. If elected, Executive agrees that he shall not be
entitled to receive any compensation for serving as a director of HCC, or in any
capacities for the Company's Affiliates other than the compensation to be paid
to Executive by the Company pursuant to this Agreement.

         3. COMPENSATION AND RELATED MATTERS.

                  (A) BASE SALARY. Executive shall receive an initial base
salary paid by the Company of $220,000 for the period from the Effective Date to
December 31, 2003; $240,000 for the calendar year beginning January 1, 2004; and
$265,000 for the calendar year beginning January 1, 2005. For purposes of this
Agreement, "Base Salary" shall mean the Executive's initial base salary or, if
increased, then the increased base salary. The Base Salary shall be paid in
substantially equal monthly installments.

                  (B) BONUS PAYMENTS. Executive shall be eligible to receive, in
addition to the Base Salary, an annual cash and/or stock bonus payment in an
amount, which may be zero, to be determined at the sole discretion of the Chief
Executive Officer of the Company or such other person in accordance with the
Company's policies.

                  (C) EXPENSES. During the Basic Term, Executive shall be
entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by
him (in accordance with the policies and procedures established by the Company)
in performing services hereunder, provided that Executive properly accounts
therefor in accordance with Company policy.

                  (D) OTHER BENEFITS. Executive shall be entitled to participate
in or receive benefits ("Other Benefits") under any compensation, employee
benefit plan, or other arrangement made generally available by the Company,
subject to and on a basis consistent with the terms, conditions, and overall
administration of such plan or arrangement. Nothing paid to Executive under any
plan or arrangement presently in effect or made available in the future shall be
deemed to be in lieu of the Base Salary payable to Executive pursuant to
Paragraph (a) of this Section.

                  (E) VACATIONS. Executive shall be entitled to twenty (20) paid
vacation days per year during the Basic Term. There shall be no carryover of
unused vacation from year to year. For purposes of this Paragraph, weekends
shall not count as vacation days, and Executive shall also be entitled to all
paid holidays given by the Company to its senior executive officers.

                  (F) PERQUISITES. Executive shall be entitled to receive the
perquisites and fringe benefits provided for on Appendix 1 hereof.


                                       2
<PAGE>


                  (G) PRORATION. Any payments or benefits payable to Executive
hereunder in respect of any calendar year during which Executive is employed by
the Company for less than the entire year, unless otherwise provided in the
applicable plan or arrangement, shall be prorated in accordance with the number
of days in such calendar year during which he is so employed. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, any payments pursuant to Paragraph 4(c) or 4(d) this Agreement
shall not be subject to proration.

         4. TERMINATION.

                  (A) DEFINITIONS.

                           (1) "CAUSE" shall mean:

                                    (i) Material dishonesty which is not the
         result of an inadvertent or innocent mistake of Executive with respect
         to the Company, its parent, or any of its affiliated companies;

                                    (ii) Willful misfeasance or nonfeasance of
         duty by Executive;

                                    (iii) Material violation by Executive of any
         material term of this Agreement;

                                    (iv) Conviction of Executive of any crime

         other than a vehicular offense which could reflect in some material
         fashion unfavorably upon the Company, its parent, or any of its
         affiliated companies.

         Executive may not be terminated for Cause unless and until there has
         been delivered to Executive written notice from the Chief Executive
         Officer of the Company (the "CEO") supplying the particulars of his
         acts or omissions that the Board believes constitute Cause, a
         reasonable period of time (not less than 30 days) has been given to
         Executive after such notice to either cure the same or to meet with the
         CEO with his attorney if so desired by Executive, and following which
         the CEO reaffirms its previous decision.

                           (2) A "DISABILITY" shall mean the absence of
xecutive from Executive's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180
consecutive days, or 180 days in a 365-day period, as a result of incapacity due
to mental or physical illness which results in the Executive being unable to
perform the essential functions of his position, with or without reasonable
accommodation.

                           (3) A "GOOD REASON" shall mean any of the following
(without Executive's express written consent):

                                    (i) The taking of any action by the Company
         that would adversely affect Executive's participation in, or materially
         reduce Executive's benefits under, any employee benefit plan, unless
         such failure or such taking of any action adversely affects persons in
         the Company generally;


                                       3
<PAGE>


                                    (ii) Executive's involuntary relocation to
         any place, other than the executive offices as a result of the Company
         relocating its executive offices, exceeding a distance of fifty (50)
         miles from the place of Executive's normal place of employment on the
         Effective Date, except for reasonably required travel by Executive on
         the Company's business;

                                    (iii) Any material breach by the Company of
         any material provision of this Agreement; or

                                    (iv) Any failure by the Company to obtain

         the assumption and performance of this Agreement by any successor (by
         merger, consolidation, or otherwise) or assign of the Company.

However, Good Reason shall exist with respect to an above specified matter only
if such matter is not corrected, or begun to be corrected, by the Company within
thirty (30) days after the Company's receipt of written notice of such matter
from Executive. In no event shall a termination by Executive occurring more than
ninety (90) days following the date of the event described be a termination for
Good Reason due to such event.

                           (4) "TERMINATION DATE" shall mean the date Executive
terminates or is terminated for any reason pursuant to this Agreement.

                  (B) TERMINATION WITHOUT CAUSE OR FOR GOOD REASON: BENEFITS. In
the event there is a termination by the Company without Cause, or if Executive
terminates for Good Reason (a "Termination Event"), this Agreement shall
terminate and Executive shall be entitled to the following severance benefits:

                           (1) For the remainder of the Basic Term after the
Termination Date, Base Salary (as defined in Paragraph 3(a)), at the rate in
effect immediately prior to the Termination Event, payable within thirty (30)
days after the Termination Date in a lump sum, appropriately discounted to take
into consideration the lump sum early payment;

                           (2) All accrued compensation and unreimbursed
expenses through the Termination Date. Such amounts shall be paid to Executive
in a lump sum in cash within thirty (30) days after the Termination Date; and

                           (3) Executive shall be free to accept other
employment during such period, and other than as set forth herein, there shall
be no offset of any employment compensation earned by Executive in such other
employment during such period against payments due Executive under this
Paragraph (4), and there shall be no offset in any compensation received from
such other employment against the Base Salary set forth above.

                  (C) TERMINATION IN EVENT OF DEATH: BENEFITS. If Executive's
employment is terminated by reason of Executive's death during the Basic Term,
this Agreement shall terminate without further obligation to Executive's legal
representatives under this Agreement, other than for payment of all accrued
compensation, unreimbursed expenses, and the timely payment or provision


                                       4
<PAGE>


of Other Benefits through the date of death. Such amounts shall be paid to
Executive's estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within
ninety (90) days after the date of death.

                  (D) TERMINATION IN EVENT OF DISABILITY: BENEFITS. If
Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Disability during
the Basic Term, this Agreement shall terminate but the Company shall continue to
pay the Base Salary for a period of three (3) months and thereafter shall make
such additional payment for the Basic Term so that the after tax effect of
Executive's compensation is the same as before the Disability. Executive shall,
not be entitled to any subsequent cash or stock bonuses.

                  (E) VOLUNTARY TERMINATION BY EMPLOYEE AND TERMINATION FOR
CAUSE: BENEFITS. Executive may terminate his employment with the Company without
Good Reason by giving written notice of his intent and stating an effective
Termination Date at least ninety (90) days after the date of such notice;
provided, however, that the Company may accelerate such effective date by paying
Executive through the proposed Termination Date (but not to exceed ninety (90)
days). Upon such a termination by Executive or upon termination for Cause by the
Company, this Agreement shall terminate and the Company shall pay to Executive
all accrued compensation, unreimbursed expenses and Other Benefits through the
Termination Date. Such amounts shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum in cash
within sixty (60) days after the date of termination.

                  (F) DIRECTOR POSITIONS. Executive agrees that upon termination
of employment, for any reason, at the request of the Chairman of the Board,
Executive will immediately tender his resignation from any and all Board
positions held with the Company and/or any of its Affiliates.

         5. NON-COMPETITION, NON-SOLICITATION, AND CONFIDENTIALITY. At the
inception of this employment relationship, and continuing on an ongoing basis,
the Company agrees to give Executive access to Confidential Information
(including, without limitation, Confidential Information, as defined below, of
the Company's Affiliates) which the Executive has not had access to or knowledge
of before the execution of this Agreement. At the time this Agreement is made,
the Company agrees to provide Executive with initial and ongoing Specialized
Training, which Executive has not had access to or knowledge of before the
execution of this Agreement. "Specialized Training" includes the training the
Company provides to its employees that is unique to its business and enhances
Executive's ability to perform Executive's job duties effectively. Specialized
Training includes, without limitation, orientation training; sales
methods/techniques training; operation methods training; and computer and
systems training.

                  (A) NON-COMPETITION DURING EMPLOYMENT. Executive agrees that,
in consideration for the Company's promise to provide Executive with
Confidential Information and Specialized Training, during the Basic Term, he
will not compete with the Company by engaging in the conception, design,
development, production, marketing, or servicing of any product or service that
is substantially similar to the products or services which the Company provides,
and that he will not work for, in any capacity, assist, or become affiliated
with as an owner, partner, etc., either directly or indirectly, any individual
or business which offers or performs services, or offers or provides products
substantially similar to the services and products provided by Company,
provided, Executive shall not be prevented from owning no more than 2% of any
company whose stock is publicly traded.


                                       5
<PAGE>


                  (B) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST. Executive agrees that during the
Basic Term, he will not engage, either directly or indirectly, in any activity
(a "Conflict of Interest") which might adversely affect the Company or its
affiliates, including ownership of a material interest in any supplier,
contractor, distributor, subcontractor, customer or other entity with which the
Company does business or accepting any material payment, service, loan, gift,
trip, entertainment, or other favor from a supplier, contractor, distributor,
subcontractor, customer or other entity with which the Company does business,
and that Executive will promptly inform the Chief Executive Officer of the
Company as to each offer received by Executive to engage in any such activity.
Executive further agrees to disclose to the Company any other facts of which
Executive becomes aware which in Executive's good faith judgment could
reasonably be expected to involve or give rise to a Conflict of Interest or
potential Conflict of Interest.

                  (C) NON-COMPETITION AFTER TERMINATION. Executive agrees that
in order to protect the Company's Confidential Information, it is necessary to
enter into the following restrictive covenant, which is ancillary to the
enforceable promises between the Company and Executive otherwise contained in
this Agreement. Executive agrees that Executive shall not, at any time during
the period of one (1) years after termination for any reason, within any of the
markets in which the Company has sold products or services or formulated a plan
to sell products or services into a market during the last twelve (12) months of
Executive's employ or which the Company enters into within three (3) months
thereafter, engage in or contribute Executive's knowledge to any work which is
competitive with or similar to a product, process, apparatus, service, or
development on which Executive worked or with respect to which Executive had
access to Confidential Information or Specialized Training while employed by the
Company. Following the expiration of said one (1) year period, Executive shall
continue to be obligated under the Confidential Information paragraph of this
Agreement not to use or to disclose Confidential Information of the Company so
long as it shall not be publicly available. It is understood that the
geographical area set forth in this covenant is divisible so that if this clause
is invalid or unenforceable in an included geographic area, that area is
severable and the clause remains in effect for the remaining included geographic
areas in which the clause is valid.

                  (D) CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Executive agrees that he will
not, except as the Company may otherwise consent or direct in writing, reveal or
disclose, sell, use, lecture upon, publish or otherwise disclose to any third
party any Confidential Information or proprietary information of the Company, or
authorize anyone else to do these things at any time either during or subsequent
to his employment with the Company. This paragraph shall continue in full force
and effect after termination of Executive's employment and after the termination
of this Agreement. Executive's obligations under this Paragraph with respect to
any specific Confidential Information and proprietary information shall cease
when that specific portion of the Confidential Information and proprietary
information becomes publicly known, in its entirety and without combining
portions of such information obtained separately. It is understood that such
Confidential Information and proprietary information of the Company include
matters that Executive conceives or develops, as well as matters Executive
learns from other employees of the Company. "Confidential Information" is
defined to include information: (1) disclosed to or known by the Executive as a
consequence of or through his employment with the Company; (2) not generally
known outside the Company; and (3) which relates to any aspect of the Company or
its business, finances, operation plans, budgets, research, or strategic
development. "Confidential Information" includes, but is not limited to the


                                       6
<PAGE>


Company's trade secrets, proprietary information, financial documents, long
range plans, customer lists, employer compensation, marketing strategy, data
bases, costing data, computer software developed by the Company, investments
made by the Company, and any information provided to the Company by a third
party under restrictions against disclosure or use by the Company or others.

                  (E) NON-SOLICITATION. To protect the Company's Confidential
Information, and in the event of Executive's termination of employment for any
reason whatsoever, whether by Executive or the Company, it is necessary to enter
into the following restrictive covenant, which is ancillary to the enforceable
promises between the Company and Executive otherwise contained in this
Agreement. Executive covenants and agrees that for a period of two (2) years
after termination of employment (for any reason), Executive will not, directly
or indirectly, either individually or as a principal, partner, agent,
consultant, contractor, employee or as a director or officer of any corporation
or association, or in any other manner or capacity whatsoever, except on behalf
of the Company, solicit business, or attempt to solicit business, and products
or services competitive with products or services sold by the Company, from the
Company's clients or customers, or those individuals or entities with whom the
Company did business during Executive's employment, including, without
limitation, the Company's perspective or potential customers or clients.
Executive agrees that during Executive's employment and for a period of two (2)
years from the date of any termination of Executive's employment for any reason,
Executive will not, either directly or indirectly, or by acting in concert with
others, solicit or influence any Company employee to leave the Company's
employment.

                  (F) RETURN OF DOCUMENTS, EQUIPMENT, ETC. All writings,
records, and other documents and things comprising, containing, describing,
discussing, explaining, or evidencing any Confidential Information, and all
equipment, components, parts, tools, and the like in Executive's custody or
possession that have been obtained or prepared in the course of Executive's
employment with the Company shall be the exclusive property of the Company,
shall not be copied and/or removed from the premises of the Company, except in
pursuit of the business of the Company, and shall be delivered to the Company,
without Executive retaining any copies, upon notification of the termination of
Executive's employment or at any other time requested by the Company. The
Company shall have the right to retain, access, and inspect all property of
Executive of any kind in the office, work area, and on the premises of the
Company upon termination of Executive's employment and at any time during
employment by the Company to ensure compliance with the terms of this Agreement.

                  (G) REAFFIRM OBLIGATIONS. Upon termination of Executive's
employment with the Company, Executive, if requested by Company, shall reaffirm
in writing Executive's recognition of the importance of maintaining the
confidentiality of the Company's Confidential Information and proprietary
information, and reaffirm any other obligations set forth in this Agreement.

                  (H) PRIOR DISCLOSURE. Executive represents and warrants that
Executive has not used or disclosed any Confidential Information he may have
obtained from the Company prior to signing this Agreement, in any way
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.

                  (I) NO PREVIOUS RESTRICTIVE AGREEMENTS. Executive represents
that, except as disclosed in writing to the Company, Executive is not bound by
the terms of any agreement with any


                                       7
<PAGE>


previous employer or other party to refrain from using or disclosing any trade
secret or confidential or proprietary information in the course of Executive's
employment by the Company or to refrain from competing, directly or indirectly,
with the business of such previous employer or any other party. Executive
further represents that Executive's performance of all the terms of this
Agreement and Executive's work duties for the Company does not and will not
breach any agreement to keep in confidence proprietary information, knowledge or
data acquired by Executive in confidence or in trust prior to Executive's
employment with the Company, and Executive will not disclose to the Company or
induce the Company to use any confidential or proprietary information or
material belonging to any previous employer or other party.

                  (J) BREACH. Executive agrees that any breach of Paragraphs
5(a) through (f) above cannot be remedied solely by money damages, and that in
addition to any other remedies Company may have, Company is entitled to obtain
injunctive relief against Executive. Nothing herein, however, shall be construed
as limiting the Company's right to pursue any other available remedy at law or
in equity, including recovery of damages and termination of this Agreement
and/or any payments that may be due pursuant to this Agreement.

                  (K) RIGHT TO ENTER AGREEMENT. Executive represents and
covenants to the Company that he has full power and authority to enter into this
Agreement and that the execution of this Agreement will not breach or constitute
a default of any other agreement or contract to which he is a party or by which
he is bound.

                  (L) ENFORCEABILITY. The agreements contained in this Section 5
are independent of the other agreements contained herein. Accordingly, failure
of the Company to comply with any of its obligations outside of this Section do
not excuse Executive from complying with the agreements contained herein.

                  (M) SURVIVABILITY. The agreements contained in this Section 5
shall survive the termination of this Agreement for any reason.

                  (N) REFORMATION. If a court concludes that any time period or
the geographic area specified in Section 5(c) or 5(e) of this Agreement are
unenforceable, then the time period will be reduced by the number of months, or
the geographic area will be reduced by the elimination of the overbroad portion,
or both, so that the restrictions may be enforced in the geographic area and for
the time to the fullest extent permitted by law.

         6. ASSIGNMENT. This Agreement cannot be assigned by Executive. The
Company may assign this Agreement only to a successor (whether direct or
indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or
substantially all of the business and assets of the Company provided such
successor expressly agrees in writing reasonably satisfactory to Executive to
assume and perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that
the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession and assignment
had taken place. Failure of the Company to obtain such written agreement prior
to the effectiveness of any such succession shall be a material breach of this
Agreement.


                                       8
<PAGE>


         7. BINDING AGREEMENT. Executive understands that his obligations under
this Agreement are binding upon Executive's heirs, successors, personal
representatives, and legal representatives.

         8. NOTICES. All notices pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing
and sent certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed as set forth below,
or by delivering the same in person to such party, or by transmission by
facsimile to the number set forth below (which shall not constitute notice).
Notice deposited in the United States Mail, mailed in the manner described
hereinabove, shall be effective upon deposit. Notice given in any other manner
shall be effective only if and when received:

        If to Executive:                Christopher L. Martin
                                        5901 Fordham
                                        Houston, Texas  77005
                                        Fax:  713 661 7922

        If to Company:                  HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.
                                        13403 Northwest Freeway
                                        Houston, Texas  77040
                                        Attn:  General Counsel
                                        Fax:  (713) 744-9648

        with a copy (which shall        Arthur S. Berner, Esq.
        not constitute notice) to:      Haynes and Boone, LLP
                                        1000 Louisiana Street,
                                        Suite 4300
                                        Houston, Texas  77002-5012
                                        Fax:  (713) 236-5652

         9. WAIVER. No waiver by either party to this Agreement of any right to
enforce any term or condition of this Agreement, or of any breach hereof, shall
be deemed a waiver of such right in the future or of any other right or remedy
available under this Agreement.

         10. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to
be void, invalid, unenforceable, or against public policy, such provisions shall
be deemed severable from the Agreement, and the remaining provisions of the
Agreement will remain unaffected and in full force and effect.

         11. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. The terms and provisions contained herein shall
constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to Executive's
employment with Company during the time period covered by this Agreement. This
Agreement replaces and supersedes any and all existing Agreements entered into
between Executive and the Company relating generally to the same subject matter,
if any, and shall be binding upon Executive's heirs, executors, administrators,
or other legal representatives or assigns.


                                       9
<PAGE>


         12. MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT. This Agreement may not be changed or
modified or released or discharged or abandoned or otherwise terminated, in
whole or in part, except by an instrument in writing signed by the Executive and
an officer or other authorized executive of Company.

         13. UNDERSTAND AGREEMENT. Executive represents and warrants that he has
read and understood each and every provision of this Agreement, and Executive
understands that he has the right to obtain advice from legal counsel of his
choice, if necessary and desired, in order to interpret any and all provisions
of this Agreement, and that Executive has freely and voluntarily entered into
this Agreement.

         14. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Texas.

         15. JURISDICTION AND VENUE. With respect to any litigation regarding
this Agreement, Executive agrees to venue in the state or federal courts in
Harris County, Texas, and agrees to waive and does hereby waive any defenses
and/or arguments based upon improper venue and/or lack of personal jurisdiction.
By entering into this Agreement, Executive agrees to personal jurisdiction in
the state and federal courts in Harris County, Texas.

         16. TOLLING. If Executive violates any of the restrictions contained in
Section 5(c) or 5(e), the restrictive period will be suspended and will not run
in favor of Executive from the time of the commencement of any violation until
the time when the Executive cures the violation to the Company's satisfaction.


                 REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK



                                       10
<PAGE>


         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement in
multiple copies, effective as of the date first written above.


EXECUTIVE                                        COMPANY

                                                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.


/s/ Christopher L. Martin                        By:/s/ Stephen L. Way
- ----------------------------                         ---------------------------
 CHRISTOPHER L. MARTIN                               STEPHEN L. WAY, Chief
                                                     Executive Officer


Dated: March 26, 2003                            Dated: March 26, 2003
      ----------------------                          --------------------------





                     SIGNATURE PAGE TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT




                                       11
<PAGE>


                                   APPENDIX 1



1.  Executive shall be employed as an Executive Vice President General Councel
    of the Company.

2.  Dues paid at The Houstonian.

3.  Car allowance of $750 per month.







</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>h03402exv12.txt
<DESCRIPTION>STATEMENT RE COMPUTATION OF RATIOS
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                               .
                                                                               .
                                                                               .




                 HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                               STATEMENT OF RATIOS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                              (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

                                                                                          ADJUSTED
                                           2002            2001            2000             1999 (2)       1999              1998
<S>                                     <C>              <C>            <C>            <C>              <C>            <C>
Gross premium to surplus ratio:

   Gross written premium                $1,163,397       $1,014,833     $  972,154                      $  576,184       $  500,962
   Policyholders' surplus                  523,807          401,393        326,249                         315,474          369,401
   Premium to surplus ratio (1)              222.1%           252.8%         298.0%                          182.6%           135.6%

(Gross premium to surplus ratio = gross written premium divided by policyholders' surplus)

Net premium to surplus ratio:

    Net written premium                 $  545,475       $  371,409     $  283,947                      $  150,261     $  123,315
    Policyholders' surplus                 523,807          401,393        326,249                         315,474        369,401
    Premium to surplus ratio (1)             104.1%            92.5%          87.0%                           47.6%          33.4%

(Net premium to surplus ratio = net written premium divided by policyholders' surplus)

Loss ratio:
   Incurred loss and loss
     adjustment expense                 $  313,744       $  266,537     $  190,272     $  119,093       $  160,908     $   95,435
   Net earned premium                      506,371          341,779        267,481        146,850          150,304        142,108
   Loss ratio (1)                             62.0%            78.0%          71.1%          81.1%           107.1%          67.2%

(Loss ratio = incurred loss and loss adjustment expense divided by net earned premium)

Expense ratio:
   Underwriting expense                 $  130,578       $   88,461     $   76,548     $   33,427       $   34,220     $   19,417
   Net written premium                     545,475          371,409        283,947        145,200          150,261        123,315
   Expense ratio (1)                          23.9%            23.8%          27.0%          23.0%            22.8%          15.7%

(Expense ratio = underwriting expense divided by net written premium)

   Combined ratio (1)                         85.9%           101.8%          98.1%         104.1%           129.9%          82.9%

(Combined ratio = loss ratio plus expense ratio)
</TABLE>

(1)      Calculated for our insurance companies on the basis of statutory
         accounting principles.

(2)      Excluding the effects of the provision for reinsurance in 1999
<PAGE>
                  HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                               STATEMENT OF RATIOS
                                   (continued)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                   (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

                                                                            ADJUSTED
                               2002           2001            2000           1999 (2)      1999            1998
<S>                           <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Loss ratio:
   Incurred loss and
     loss adjustment
     expense                  $306,491       $267,390       $198,470       $109,650       $109,650       $ 91,302
   Net earned premium          505,521        342,787        267,647        141,362        141,362        143,100
   Loss ratio (3)                 60.6%          78.0%          74.2%          77.6%          77.6%          63.8%

(Loss ratio = incurred loss and loss adjustment expense divided by net earned premium)

Expense ratio:
   Underwriting expense       $128,528       $ 88,192       $ 56,223       $ 29,661       $ 73,123       $ 30,700
   Net earned premium          505,521        342,787        267,647        141,362        141,362        143,100
   Expense ratio (3)              25.4%          25.7%          21.0%          21.0%          51.7%          21.5%

(Expense ratio = underwriting expense divided by net earned premium)

   Combined ratio (3)             86.0%         103.7%          95.2%          98.6%         129.3%          85.3%

(Combined ratio = loss ratio plus expense ratio)
</TABLE>

(2)      Excluding the effects of the provision for reinsurance in 1999.

(3)      Calculated for our insurance companies on the basis of generally
         accepted accounting principles.







</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>10
<FILENAME>h03402exv21.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                               .
                                                                               .
                                                                               .



                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.
                                  SUBSIDIARIES

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                               STATE OR COUNTRY
         NAME                                                                                  OF INCORPORATION
         ----                                                                                  ----------------
<S>      <C>                                                                                   <C>
1.       ASU International, Inc.                                                                 Massachusetts
2.       ASU International Limited (UK)                                                          United Kingdom
3.       Avemco Corporation                                                                      Delaware
4.       Avemco Insurance Company                                                                Maryland
5.       Avemco Services, Inc.                                                                   Maryland
6.       Aviation & Marine Premium Acceptance Corporation                                        Texas
7.       Centris Insurance Company                                                               Indiana
8.       Centris Underwriting Agencies, Inc.                                                     Indiana
9.       Dickson Manchester & Company, Limited (UK)                                              United Kingdom
10.      Dickson Manchester Underwriting, Limited (UK)                                           United Kingdom
11.      Eagles Aerobatic Flight Team, Inc.                                                      Wisconsin
12.      Eastern Aviation & Marine Underwriters, Inc.                                            Maryland
13.      Euro Sports Underwriters Limited (UK)                                                   United Kingdom
14.      HCC Acquisitions (U.K.) Limited                                                         United Kingdom
15.      HCC Acquisition Sub, Inc.                                                               New York
16.      HCC Administrators, Inc.                                                                Illinois
17.      HCC Aviation Insurance Group, Inc.                                                      Texas
18.      HCC Aviation, Ltd.                                                                      Texas
19.      HCC Benefits Corporation                                                                Delaware
20.      HCC Employee Benefits, Inc.                                                             Delaware
21.      HCC Employer Services, Inc. (AL)                                                        Alabama
22.      HCC Employer Services, Inc. (IL)                                                        Illinois
23.      HCC Intermediate Holdings, Inc.                                                         Delaware
24.      HCC Life Insurance Company                                                              Indiana
25.      HCC Reinsurance Company Limited (Bermuda)                                               Bermuda
26.      HCC Risk Management Corporation                                                         Texas
27.      HCC Risk Management, Inc.                                                               Indiana
28.      HCC Service Company, Ltd.                                                               Texas
29.      HCC Service Delaware, LLC                                                               Delaware
30.      HCC Specialty Insurance Company                                                         Oklahoma
31.      HCC Specialty Insurance Holdings Ltd.                                                   United Kingdom
32.      HCC Strategic Investments, LLC                                                          Delaware
33.      HCC Underwriters, a Texas Corporation                                                   Texas
34.      HCCS Corporation                                                                        Delaware
35.      Houston Casualty Company                                                                Texas
36.      Houston Casualty Company Europe, Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. (Spain)                     Spain
37.      Intellicare, Inc.                                                                       Alabama
38.      Interra, Inc.                                                                           Indiana
39.      Interra Reinsurance Group, Inc.                                                         Indiana
40.      LDG Insurance Agency Incorporated                                                       Massachusetts
41.      LDG Re (London) Ltd.                                                                    United Kingdom
42.      LDG Re Worldwide Limited                                                                Delaware
43.      LDG Re Worldwide Limited (UK)                                                           United Kingdom
44.      LDG Reinsurance Corporation                                                             Massachusetts
45.      Loss Management, Inc.                                                                   Delaware
46.      Loss Management Services, Inc.                                                          Maryland
47.      MAG Acquisition Sub, Inc.                                                               Delaware
48.      HCC Global Financial Products, LLC                                                      Delaware
</TABLE>
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<S>      <C>                                                                                     <C>
49.      HCC Global Financial Products of Alabama, LLC                                           Alabama
50.      HCC Global Financial Products of Georgia, LLC                                           Georgia
51.      HCC Global Financial Products, S.L.                                                     Spain
52.      HCC Global Financial Products of Texas, LLC                                             Texas
53.      Manchester Dickson Holdings, Limited (UK)                                               United Kingdom
54.      Marshall Adjusting Corp.                                                                New York
55.      Marshall Rattner, Inc.                                                                  New York
56.      Merger Sub, Inc.                                                                        Texas
57.      National Insurance Underwriters                                                         Arkansas
58.      PEPYS Holdings Limited                                                                  United Kingdom
59.      PEPYS Management Services Limited                                                       United Kingdom
60.      Premier Risk Services Limited                                                           United Kingdom
61.      Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc.                                                     New Jersey
62.      Professional Indemnity Agency, Inc. of New York                                         New York
63.      Rattner Mackenzie Insurance Services (Guernsey) Ltd.                                    Guernsey
64.      Rattner Mackenzie Ltd. (Bermuda)                                                        Bermuda
65.      Rattner Mackenzie Limited  (UK)                                                         United Kingdom
66.      Rattner Mackenzie Limited (RML) (Exempted) Co.                                          Jordan
67.      Rattner Mackenzie (North America), Inc.                                                 New York
68.      SBS Insurance Holdings, a Texas Corporation                                             Texas
69.      Select Benefits, Inc.                                                                   Indiana
70.      Signal Aviation Insurance Services, Inc.                                                Nevada
71.      Specialty Reinsurance Intermediaries, Inc.                                              Massachusetts
72.      Specialty Insurance Underwriters, Inc.                                                  Missouri
73.      HCC Specialty Insurance Holdings Ltd.                                                   United Kingdom
74.      The Centris Group, Inc.                                                                 Delaware
75.      The Schanen Consulting Group, LLC                                                       Georgia
76.      The Wheatley Group, Ltd.                                                                New York
77.      TMD Rattner, L.L.C.                                                                     New York
78.      TTR, L.L.C.                                                                             New York
79.      USBenefits Insurance Services, Inc.                                                     California
80.      US Holdings, Inc.                                                                       Delaware
81.      U.S. Specialty Insurance Company                                                        Texas
82.      VASA Brougher, Inc.                                                                     Indiana
83.      VASA Insurance Group, Inc.                                                              Indiana
84.      VASA North America, Inc.                                                                Indiana
</TABLE>






</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>11
<FILENAME>h03402exv23.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
<TEXT>
<PAGE>










                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration
statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-89905 and 333-99551) and Form S-3 (Nos.
333-58350 and 333-76122) of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. of our reports dated
March 21, 2003, relating to the financial statements and financial statement
schedules, which appear in HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Houston, Texas
March 27, 2003





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>12
<FILENAME>h03402exv24.txt
<DESCRIPTION>POWERS OF ATTORNEY
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and Edward H. Ellis, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

                                                     /s/ FRANK J. BRAMANTI
                                                     ------------------------
                                                     Frank J. Bramanti

                                                     Date:  March 20,  2003
<PAGE>
                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and Edward H. Ellis, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

                                                     /s/ PATRICK B. COLLINS
                                                     ------------------------
                                                     Patrick B. Collins

                                                     Date:  March 20, 2003
<PAGE>
                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and Edward H. Ellis, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

                                                     /s/ JAMES R. CRANE
                                                     ------------------------
                                                     James R. Crane

                                                     Date:  March 20, 2003
<PAGE>
                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and Edward H. Ellis, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

                                                     /s/ J. ROBERT DICKERSON
                                                     ------------------------
                                                     J. Robert Dickerson

                                                     Date:  March 20, 2003
<PAGE>
                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and Edward H. Ellis, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

                                                     /s/ JAMES C. FLAGG, PHD.
                                                     ------------------------
                                                     James C. Flagg, PhD.

                                                     Date:  March 20, 2003
<PAGE>
                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and Edward H. Ellis, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

                                                     /s/ EDWIN H. FRANK, III
                                                     -----------------------
                                                     Edwin H. Frank, III

                                                     Date:  March 20, 2003
<PAGE>
                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and Edward H. Ellis, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

                                                     /s/ ALLAN W. FULKERSON
                                                     ------------------------
                                                     Allan W. Fulkerson

                                                     Date:  March 20, 2003
<PAGE>
                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and Edward H. Ellis, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

                                                     /s/ WALTER J. LACK
                                                     ------------------------
                                                     Walter J. Lack

                                                     Date:  March 20, 2003
<PAGE>
                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

         Know all men by these presents, that the undersigned constitutes and
appoints Stephen L. Way and Edward H. Ellis, Jr., and each of them, his true and
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
re-substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
such attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to
do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done
in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that such
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of the, or their or his substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

                                                     /s/ MICHAEL A. F. ROBERTS
                                                     --------------------------
                                                     Michael A. F. Roberts

                                                     Date:  March 20, 2003



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>13
<FILENAME>h03402exv99w1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CERTIFICATION RE ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>





                          CERTIFICATION WITH RESPECT TO
                                ANNUAL REPORT OF
                          HCC INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

         The undersigned, being the chief executive officer and chief financial
officer of HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. (the "Company"), in compliance with the
White-Collar Crime Penalty Enhancement Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, do
hereby certify to the best of their knowledge with respect to the Annual Report
of the Company on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission for the year ended December 31, 2002, (the "Report"):

1.       that the Report fully complies with all requirements of section 13(a)
         and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and

2.       that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all
         material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of
         the Company.










<TABLE>
<S>                                      <C>
March 27, 2003                                         /s/ Stephen L. Way
- ----------------------                   ---------------------------------------------------------
          (Date)                                 Stephen L. Way, Chairman of the Board,
                                                  Chief Executive Officer and President

March 27, 2003                                         /s/ Edward H. Ellis, Jr.
- ----------------------                   ---------------------------------------------------------
         (Date)                           Edward H. Ellis, Jr., Executive Vice President and
                                                         Chief Financial Officer
</TABLE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.2
<SEQUENCE>14
<FILENAME>h03402exv99w2.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 99.2

                    CERTIFICATION BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

I, Stephen L. Way, certify that:

     1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of HCC Insurance
Holdings, Inc.;

     2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual
report;

     3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

     4. The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

          a. designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
     material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
     subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
     particularly during the period in which this annual report is being
     prepared;

          b. evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
     and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this
     annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

          c. presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
     effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
     evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

     5. The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based
on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):

          a. all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
     controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
     process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
     registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

          b. any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
     other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
     controls; and

     6. The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal controls
or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent
to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with
regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

                                                  /s/ STEPHEN L. WAY
                                          --------------------------------------
                                                     Stephen L. Way,
                                          Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive
                                                         Officer
                                                      and President

March 27, 2003
- ------------------
     (Date)

     A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has
been provided to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and will be retained by HCC
Insurance Holdings, Inc. and furnished by the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.3
<SEQUENCE>15
<FILENAME>h03402exv99w3.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 99.3

                    CERTIFICATION BY CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

I, Edward H. Ellis, Jr., certify that:

     1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of HCC Insurance
Holdings, Inc.;

     2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual
report;

     3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

     4. The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

          a. designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
     material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
     subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
     particularly during the period in which this annual report is being
     prepared;

          b. evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
     and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this
     annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

          c. presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
     effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
     evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

     5. The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based
on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):

          a. all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
     controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
     process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
     registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

          b. any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
     other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
     controls; and

     6. The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal controls
or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent
to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with
regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

                                               /s/ EDWARD H. ELLIS, JR.
                                          --------------------------------------
                                                   Edward H. Ellis, Jr.
                                            Executive Vice President and Chief
                                                    Financial Officer

March 27, 2003
- ------------------
     (Date)

     A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has
been provided to HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and will be retained by HCC
Insurance Holdings, Inc. and furnished by the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
