-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 LFUvzxZS8gpUe8ogHczvtR6UCPuxZjkWg/HhzMXjnpqlCBV4mvUlo/4A6OZjiH7b
 jTAoC8e52u5+6iS6uWdv1g==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001116502-01-500156.txt : 20010409
<SEC-HEADER>0001116502-01-500156.hdr.sgml : 20010409
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001116502-01-500156
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20001231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20010402

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000912544
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-RETAIL STORES, NEC [5990]
		IRS NUMBER:				650385686
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			FL
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14332
		FILM NUMBER:		1591887

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2255 GLADES RD
		STREET 2:		STE 237 W
		CITY:			BOCA RATON
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			33431
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5619988000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2255 GLADES RD
		STREET 2:		STE 237 W
		CITY:			BOCA RATON
		STATE:			FL
		ZIP:			33431

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	HOLLYWOOD COM INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20000511

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BIG ENTERTAINMENT INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19930924
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>hollywood10k.txt
<DESCRIPTION>ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>


                                    FORM 10-K
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
(Mark One)

[X]      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

         For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

[ ]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
         THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

         For the transition period from                   to
                                        -----------------    ------------------

                           Commission File No. 0-22908
                                               -------

                              HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP.
          (Exact name of registrant issuer as specified in its charter)

         Florida                                                 65-0385686
- --------------------------------                            --------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                             (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                              Identification No.)

2255 Glades Road, Suite 237 West
Boca Raton, Florida                                                  33431
- ---------------------------------------                       -----------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                           (Zip Code)

                                 (561) 998-8000
                           --------------------------
                           (Issuer's telephone number)

       Securities registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act: None

         Securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act:

                     Common stock, par value $.01 per share
                     --------------------------------------
                                (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant issuer (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES [X] NO [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers in response to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [  ]

The aggregate market value of the registrant's common stock, $.01 par value,
held by non-affiliates on March 26, 2001, based on the last sale price of the
common stock on that date as reported by Nasdaq, was $66,249,500.

As of March 26, 2001, there were 25,012,982 shares of the issuer's common stock,
$.01 par value, outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

                                      None


<PAGE>

                              HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP.
                                    FORM 10-K
                               FOR THE YEAR ENDED
                                DECEMBER 31, 2000

                                Table of Contents

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                                                                                                              <C>
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS........................................................................................3


                                                  PART I


Item 1. Business..................................................................................................3


Item 2. Properties...............................................................................................18


Item 3. Legal Proceedings........................................................................................18


Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders......................................................19


                                                  PART II


Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters....................................21


Item 6. Selected Financial Data .................................................................................22


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of

            Operations ..........................................................................................23


Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk  ............................................32


Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data .............................................................33


Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on

            Accounting and Financial Disclosure..................................................................70


                                                 PART III


Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant......................................................71


Item 11. Executive Compensation..................................................................................75


Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management..........................................80


Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..........................................................82


Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statements Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K........................................89
</TABLE>



                                       2
<PAGE>


                           FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
                           --------------------------

         Hollywood Media Corp. (the "Company" or "Hollywood Media") cautions
readers that certain important factors may affect the Company's actual results,
levels of activity, performance or achievements and could cause such results to
differ materially from any forward-looking statements that may be deemed to have
been made in this Form 10-K or that are otherwise made by or on behalf of the
Company. For this purpose, any statements contained in this Form 10-K that are
not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking
statements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, words such as
"may," "will," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "plan,"
"could," "estimate," "pro forma" or "continue" or the negative variations
thereof or comparable terminology are intended to identify forward-looking
statements. Factors that may affect the Company's results include, but are not
limited to, our continuing operating losses and accumulated deficit, our limited
operating history, the need for additional capital to finance our operations,
the need to manage our growth and integrate new businesses into the Company, our
ability to develop strategic relationships, our ability to compete with other
Internet companies, technology risks and the general risk of doing business over
the Internet, future government regulation, dependence on our founders, the
interests of our largest shareholder, Viacom Inc., and accounting considerations
related to our strategic alliance with Viacom Inc. The Company is also subject
to other risks detailed herein, including those risk factors discussed in the
"Risk Factors" section of this Form 10-K or detailed from time to time in the
Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Because these
forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, we caution
you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak
only as of the date of this Form 10-K.

                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business.
         --------

Introduction

         Leading Media Company Focused on the Hollywood and Entertainment
Verticals. Hollywood Media is a preeminent provider of entertainment-related
information, content and ticketing services to consumers and businesses. We
manage a number of integrated business units focused on Hollywood and the
entertainment industry. The Company derives a diverse stream of revenues from
this array of business units, including revenue from retail and wholesale movie
and Broadway ticket sales, business-to-business content syndication,
subscription fees, content licensing fees, advertising and book development. Due
to a common focus on the entertainment vertical, each of these business units
supports the others - with content shared between multiple business units and
customers cross-generated for one unit by another. For instance, our
Hollywood.com consumer content site funnels customers into our MovieTickets.com
affiliate (30.7% equity interest) while making use of movie listings supplied by
CinemaSource, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, which is the largest
business-to-business supplier of movie showtimes.

         Poised to Capitalize on the Exploding Demand for Entertainment Data.
The Company is a market leader in supplying entertainment listing information
and ticketing services for data applications, both wired and wireless.
Entertainment content (particularly movie showtimes listings) has always been
"must carry" for newspapers and other traditional media, has quickly become
"must carry" for Internet portals and will soon be "must carry" content for



                                       3
<PAGE>

wireless companies, interactive television providers and others who seek to
provide localized content to end users. The growing need for information
providers to supply local content and services directly to end users has created
tremendous demand for our top ranked database of movie listings and for access
to the Company's premier online ticketing services. Many of the leading
newspapers (including The New York Times), wireless service providers (including
AT&T Wireless, Sprint PCS and Verizon Wireless) and Internet portals (including
AOL, Yahoo!, Lycos, Excite, and TicketMaster/CitySearch) license our
content.

         Strong Strategic Partnerships. The Company has strong financial and
business relationships with leading companies in the entertainment industry. We
have a strategic, seven-year agreement with Viacom, which calls for Viacom to
provide the Company with $105 million of marketing and promotion across a full
range of CBS media properties. This resource currently accounts for
approximately 95% of our total marketing expenditure and does not impact our
cash flow. Our MovieTickets.com affiliate is party to a separate transaction
with Viacom in which Viacom will provide MovieTickets.com with $25 million of
marketing over five years. In addition, in March 2001 our MovieTickets.com
affiliate reached an agreement with America Online under which
MovieTickets.com's ticketing services will be integrated and promoted throughout
AOL's online properties. MovieTickets.com will also integrate the ticketing
inventory of AOL's Moviefone into MovieTickets.com's existing ticketing
footprint to offer online movie ticketing coverage for 85% of all Internet-ready
movie screens in the country. As part of the agreement, AOL acquired a three
percent equity interest in MovieTickets.com for $8.5 million in cash.

         Cutting Edge Initiatives. The Company is currently undertaking several
cutting edge initiatives that will further leverage its extensive base of
proprietary information and critical mass of customers. Our MovieTickets.com
affiliate launched its wireless ticketing service in May 2000 and has become one
of the top providers of wireless movie ticketing services. MovieTickets.com is
currently rolling out several new ticketing technologies, such as home printing
of tickets, which should further fuel strong ticketing revenue growth in the
future. We are also pursuing initiatives to generate additional revenues from
our leading database of proprietary consumer information, which is well suited
for targeted marketing initiatives. For instance, we can provide Hollywood
studios - which spend an average of $21.4 million on marketing per film - and
others with direct access to large numbers of movie goers and their movie
viewing habits.

         Dynamic, Entrepreneurial and Experienced Management Team. Hollywood
Media is led by a dynamic and entrepreneurial management team that has a record
of past successes. CEO Mitchell Rubenstein and President Laurie Silvers have a
combined 40 years experience in the media industry and have built a number of
successful media businesses including the SciFi Channel, which the two founded
in 1985 and sold to USA Networks in 1992. Mr. Rubenstein and Ms. Silvers have
assembled the Company's integrated mix of businesses and oversee the Company's
direction. Each of the Company's business units is run by deep and experienced
management teams with significant expertise in their respective businesses.


                                       4
<PAGE>


Businesses to Business Syndication Divisions

         CinemaSource. CinemaSource is the largest supplier of movie showtimes
to the Internet and compiles movie showtimes for every movie theater in the
United States and Canada, representing approximately 36,000 movie screens. Since
its start in 1995, CinemaSource has substantially increased its operations and
currently provides movie showtime listings to more than 200 newspapers, wireless
companies, Internet sites, and other media outlets, including newspapers such as
The New York Times and Newsday, Internet companies including AOL's Digital City,
Yahoo!, Lycos, Excite, Ticketmaster/CitySearch, NBCi and wireless providers such
as Sprint PCS, AT&T Wireless and Verizon.

         CinemaSource also syndicates entertainment news, movie reviews, and
celebrity biographies. In addition to charging guaranteed amounts for the data
that it provides to its customers, CinemaSource often shares in the advertising
revenue generated by its customers in connection with the data.

         EventSource. We launched the EventSource business in mid-1999 as an
expansion of the operations of CinemaSource. EventSource compiles and syndicates
detailed information on community events in cities around the country, including
concerts and live music, sporting events, festivals, fairs and live theater.
EventSource entered into an agreement with AOL's Digital City in April 2000 to
provide event listings for up to 200 cities nationwide. In addition to Digital
City, other EventSource customers include the web sites of The New York Times
and Knight Ridder.

         TheaterSource. We launched the TheaterSource business in mid-2000 as a
further expansion of the operations of EventSource. TheaterSource compiles and
syndicates a comprehensive database of theater productions and showtimes,
covering shows on Broadway, off-Broadway, touring companies, community
playhouses, dinner theaters throughout North America and in London's West End
theater district.

         ConcertSource. We launched this business in October 2000. ConcertSource
offers extensive local listings of concerts and music-related events from major
arenas to small local jazz clubs, including a complete listing of every
performance from major touring groups to hometown bands. ConcertSouce currently
covers concert and event listings for the top 60 markets in the United States
and plans to expand its coverage to more than 200 markets throughout North
America.

         Baseline. We own and operate Baseline, a business which includes a
pay-per-use subscription web site (located at Baseline.hollywood.com) and
various publications including the Motion Picture Finance Investor newsletter,
geared to movie studios, investment banks, news agencies, consulting firms and
other professionals in the entertainment industry. We acquired Baseline from
media analyst Paul Kagan. The Baseline business maintains one of the most
comprehensive movie and television-related databases and has been in operation
for over 15 years. Baseline is a comprehensive database of information on over
67,000 films and television programs, as well as biographies on entertainment
industry professionals. This rich, interactive database is accessible online to
our subscribers and includes credits, synopses, reviews and box office
statistics. Baseline continuously tracks production, distribution, and
exhibition of feature films worldwide, including box office projections,
budgets, and trends. Baseline customers include Bloomberg, Daily Variety, People
Magazine, Lexis-Nexis, Disney, DreamWorks, Paramount Pictures, Universal, Morgan
Stanley and Lehman Brothers.


                                       5
<PAGE>

Internet Divisions

         Hollywood.com. Hollywood.com is a premier entertainment related web
site featuring over one million pages of in-depth movie, television and other
entertainment content, including movie descriptions and reviews, digitized movie
trailers and photos, movie showtime listings, entertainment news, box office
results, interactive games, movie soundtracks, television listings, concert
information, celebrity profiles and biographies, comprehensive coverage of
entertainment awards shows and film festivals and exclusive video coverage of
movie premieres.

         We sell banner advertising and sponsorships on Hollywood.com through
relationships with advertising rep. firms and through an internal sales staff.
Some of our recent advertisers include Microsoft, Toyota, Universal Studios,
eBay, Proctor & Gamble, Visa, M&Ms, Diet Coke, New Line Cinema, JC Penny, US
Army, Nissan, AT&T, Discovery/TLC, Nextel and Women.com.

         We promote the Hollywood.com web site through our strategic
relationships with Viacom Inc. and the National Association of Theatre Owners
("NATO"). Through exclusive contracts with NATO and over 85 of its member
theater exhibitors, we promote the Hollywood.com web site to movie audiences by
airing trailers about Hollywood.com before feature films that play in
participating theaters and by displaying posters and other promotional materials
in those theaters. In exchange, we develop and maintain web site for many of the
theater exhibitors that feature their movie showtimes.

         In January 2000 we entered into a strategic, seven-year relationship
with Viacom Inc. that provides for extensive promotion of the Hollywood.com and
Broadway.com web sites. Viacom has agreed to provide Hollywood.com and
Broadway.com with $105 million of promotion across its full range of CBS media
properties, including the CBS television network, CBS owned and operated
television stations, CBS cable networks, Infinity Broadcasting Corporation's
radio stations and outdoor billboards and CBS syndicated television and radio
programs. The promotion provided by Viacom is valued based upon the average
price charged by Viacom for similar promotions during the applicable time
period. To supplement our internal sales efforts, we also have the right to
reallocate a portion of each year's promotional budget and require Viacom to
sell up to $1.5 million of advertising on the Hollywood.com and Broadway.com web
site. Viacom has agreed to include the Hollywood.com web site in all advertising
sale programs and presentations that are appropriate for the sale of advertising
on the web site. We will pay an 8% commission on any additional advertising
revenues generated by Viacom for us in excess of the $1.5 million guaranteed
amount selected by us each year.

         We have entered into and are pursuing several strategic relationships
geared toward leveraging the Hollywood.com brand internationally. We entered
into an agreement with America Online Latin America, Inc. in late 1999 pursuant
to which we agreed to launch Portuguese and Spanish versions of the
Hollywood.com web site to be promoted on AOL in countries throughout Latin
America. We launched the br.hollywood.com Portuguese-language web site in Brazil
in November 1999 and the mx.hollywood.com and ar.hollywood.com Spanish-language
web site in Mexico and Argentina in May 2000. These web sites are tailored to
the local movie-going audience and feature much of the same content that is on
Hollywood.com, including daily entertainment news, movie descriptions and
reviews, movie previews, movie soundtracks, celebrity profiles and biographies
and interactive games. Each of these web sites are featured and promoted on the
entertainment channels of both AOL Latin America and El Sitio.com, a Latin
American-based Internet portal.


                                       6
<PAGE>

         Broadway.com. We launched Broadway.com on May 1, 2000. Broadway.com
features theater showtimes for virtually all professional live theater venues in
the U.S. as well as London's West End and hundreds of college and local live
theater venues; the ability to purchase Broadway, off-Broadway and West End
theater tickets online (See - Ticketing Divisions); the latest theater news;
interviews with stage actors and playwrights; opening-night coverage; original
theater reviews; and video excerpts from selected shows. Broadway.com also
offers current box office results, show synopses, cast and crew credits and
biographies, digitized show previews, digitized showtunes, and an in-depth Tony
Awards(R) area. Broadway.com generates revenue from ticket sales, advertising
sales, and syndication of its content to other Internet companies.

Ticketing Divisions

         MovieTickets.com. MovieTickets.com Inc., was launched in late May 2000.
Each of Hollywood Media Corp., AMC Entertainment, Inc. and National Amusements,
Inc. currently owns approximately 30.7% of the equity of MovieTickets.com, Inc.
and the venture entered into an agreement with Viacom Inc. whereby Viacom
acquired a five percent interest for $25 million of advertising over five years.
MovieTickets.com is promoted through on-screen advertising in each participating
exhibitor's movie screens and through $25 million of Viacom advertising and
promotion over the next five years. In early 2001, America Online Inc. purchased
a 3% equity interest in MovieTickets.com for $8.5 million in cash. In connection
with that transaction, MovieTickets.com's ticket inventory will be promoted
throughout America Online's interactive properties and ticket inventory of AOL's
Moviefone will be featured on MovieTickets.com. As a result, MovieTickets.com
will feature online ticket sales for 85% of all Internet-ready movie screens in
the country.

         MovieTickets.com's current participating exhibitors include AMC
Entertainment Inc., National Amusements, Inc., Famous Players Inc., Marcus
Theaters, Muvico Entertainment and several regional exhibitors. These exhibitors
operate theaters located in all of the top 20 markets and approximately 70% of
the top 50 markets in the United States and Canada and represent approximately
50% of the top 100 grossing theaters in North America. AMC Entertainment Inc. is
the largest movie theater operator in the United States based on box office
sales and Famous Players generates approximately half of all box office sales in
Canada. The MovieTickets.com web site allows users to purchase movie tickets and
retrieve them at "will call" windows or kiosks at theaters. The web site also
features bar coded tickets that can be printed at home and presented directly to
the ticket taker at the theater. The web site contains movie content from the
Company's various units including Baseline for all current and future release
movies, movie reviews and synopses, digitized movie trailers and photos, and box
office results. The web site generates revenues from service fees charged to
users for the purchase of tickets and the sale of advertising.

         Theatre Direct International and Broadway.com. We acquired Theatre
Direct International (TDI) as of September 15, 2000. Founded in 1990, TDI is a
live theater marketing and sales agency serving over 40,000 domestic and
international travel professionals, traveling consumers and New York-area
theater patrons. TDI is a ticketing wholesaler to the travel industry that
provides groups and individuals with access to theater tickets and knowledgeable
service, covering shows on Broadway, long running shows off-Broadway and shows
in London. TDI sells tickets through an 800 toll-free number, through SABRE (a
travel agent reservation system), via the Broadway.com web site and by fax. As a
marketing agency, TDI represents 12 producers and 17 Broadway shows to the
travel industry around the world. The 17 Broadway shows are Aida, Beauty and the
Beast, Blast, Cabaret, Chicago, Contact, 42nd Street, Jane Eyre, Kiss Me Kate,
Les Miserables, Rent, Riverdance, The Full Monty, The Lion King, The Music Man,
The Rocky Horror Show and The Phantom of the Opera. In addition, TDI's education
division, Broadway Classroom, markets group tickets to schools across the
country. TDI's offline ticketing service complements the online ticketing
services available on Broadway.com. The combined companies provide live theater
ticketing and related content for all Broadway shows and most shows running
off-Broadway and in London's West End at over 200 venues in multiple markets to
a customer base consisting of over 40,000 travel agencies, tour operators,
corporations and educational institutions, in addition to numerous newspapers
and web site.


                                       7
<PAGE>

Intellectual Properties Business

         Intellectual Properties. Our intellectual properties division owns the
exclusive rights to intellectual properties, which are complete stories and
ideas for stories, created by best-selling authors and media celebrities. Some
examples of our intellectual properties are Leonard Nimoy's Primortals, Mickey
Spillane's Mike Danger and Anne McCaffrey's Acorna the Unicorn Girl. We license
rights to our intellectual properties to companies such as book publishers, film
and television studios, multi-media software companies and producers of other
products. These licensees develop books, television series and other products
based on the intellectual properties licensed from us. We generally obtain the
exclusive rights to the intellectual properties and the right to use the
creator's name in the titles of the intellectual properties (e.g., Mickey
Spillane's Mike Danger and Leonard Nimoy's Primortals).

         NetCo Partners. In June 1995, the Company and C.P. Group Inc. ("C.P.
Group"), entered into an agreement to form NetCo Partners. NetCo Partners is
engaged in the development and licensing of Tom Clancy's NetForce.

         The Company and C.P. Group are each 50% partners in NetCo Partners. Tom
Clancy is a shareholder of C.P. Group. At the inception of the partnership, C.P.
Group contributed to NetCo Partners all rights to Tom Clancy's NetForce, and the
Company contributed to NetCo Partners all rights to Tad Williams' MirrorWorld,
Arthur C. Clarke's Worlds of Alexander, Neil Gaiman's Lifers, and Anne
McCaffrey's Saraband. NetCo Partners owns Tom Clancy's NetForce which was
licensed to Putnam Berkley for a series of mass market paperbacks and to ABC
Television for a television mini-series and video distribution in accordance
with the terms of the partnership agreement and the other properties have
reverted back to the Company.

         Book Development and Book Licensing. Our intellectual properties
division also includes a book development and book licensing operation through
our 51% owned subsidiary, Tekno Books, that develops and executes book projects,
typically with best-selling authors. Tekno Books has worked with approximately
50 New York Times best-selling authors, including Tom Clancy, Jonathan
Kellerman, Dean Koontz, Tony Hillerman, Robert Ludlum and Scott Turow, and
numerous media celebrities, including David Copperfield, Louis Rukeyser and
Willard Scott. Our intellectual properties division has licensed books for
publication with more than 60 book publishers, including HarperCollins, Bantam
Doubleday Dell, Random House, Simon & Schuster, Penguin Putnum and Warner Books.
The book development and book licensing division has a library of more than
1,200 books. The Chief Executive Officer of Tekno Books, Dr. Martin H.
Greenberg, is also a director of the Company and owner of the remaining 49%
interest in Tekno Books.


                                       8
<PAGE>


         Tekno Books also owns a 50% interest in Mystery Scene Magazine, a trade
journal of the mystery genre of which Dr. Greenberg is co-publisher. During
1995, the Company directly acquired an additional 25% interest in the magazine.

Risk Factors

         The forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K involve
known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the
Company's actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be
materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or
achievements anticipated, expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements. Such factors include, among others, those discussed in this section
as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in our other filings
with the SEC.

         We may not be able to compete successfully.

         Internet Businesses. The market for Internet services and products is
relatively new, intensely competitive and rapidly changing. The number of web
site on the Internet competing for consumers' attention and spending has
proliferated and we expect that competition will continue to intensify.
Competition could result in less user traffic to our web site, price reductions
for content that we syndicate and advertising that we offer, a decline in
product sales, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition. We compete, directly and indirectly, for advertisers, viewers,
members and content providers with the following categories of companies:

o        online services or web site targeted to entertainment enthusiasts,
         particularly moviegoers and theatergoers, such as Film.com, IMDb.com
         and Playbill.com;

o        publishers and distributors of traditional off-line media, such as
         television, radio and print, including those targeted to movie
         enthusiasts, many of which have established or may establish web site,
         such as Eonline.com;

o        traditional movie and entertainment organizations and vendors of
         entertainment merchandise and products, including conventional retail
         stores and catalog retailers, many of which have established web site,
         including Disney and Warner Brothers;

o        general purpose consumer online services such as AOL, Yahoo! and
         Microsoft Network, each of which provides access to movie-related
         information and services; and

o        web search and retrieval and other online services, such as Excite,
         Lycos and Yahoo! and other high-traffic web site.

         We believe that the principal competitive factors in attracting and
retaining users are the depth, breadth and timeliness of content, the ability to
offer compelling and entertaining content and brand recognition. Other important
factors in attracting and retaining users include ease of use, service quality
and cost. We believe that the principal competitive factor in attracting and
retaining advertisers include the number of users of our web site, the
demographics of our users, price and the creative implementation of
advertisement placements and sponsorship promotions. There can be no assurance
that we will be able to compete favorably with respect to these factors.

                                       9
<PAGE>

         Our ability to compete depends on many factors, many of which are
outside of our control. These factors include the quality of information
contained on our web site and on our competitors' web site, the ease of use of
services developed either by us or by our competitors, the timing and market
acceptance of new and enhanced services developed either by us or by our
competitors, and sales and marketing efforts by us and our competitors.

         Based on our review of publicly available documents, we believe some of
our existing competitors, as well as potential new competitors have longer
operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and marketing
resources, greater name recognition and substantially larger user bases than we
do and, therefore, have significantly greater ability to attract advertisers and
users. In addition, many of these competitors may be able to respond more
quickly than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in Internet user
requirements and to devote greater resources than us to the development,
promotion and sale of their services. There can be no assurance that our current
or potential competitors will not develop products and services comparable or
superior to those developed by us or adapt more quickly than us to new
technologies, evolving industry trends or changing Internet user preferences.
Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss
of market share, any of which would materially and adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as we
expand internationally, we will face new competition. There can be no assurance
that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future
competitors, or that competitive pressures faced by us would not have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

         Ticketing Businesses. The market for Internet and wireless ticketing
services and products is relatively new, intensely competitive and rapidly
changing. The number of telephone services, online services, wireless services
and web site on the Internet competing for consumers' attention and spending has
proliferated and we expect that competition will continue to intensify. We
compete, directly and indirectly, for advertisers, viewers, members and content
providers with the following categories of companies:

o        telephone services, wireless services and web site targeted to
         entertainment enthusiasts, moviegoers, theatergoers and other
         eventgoers, which feature directories of movies, shows, events,
         showtimes, theater and event locations and related content, and also
         allow users to purchase tickets; and

o        travel agents and other traditional ticketing organizations, companies,
         agents and brokers.

         Intellectual Properties and Book Development and Licensing Businesses.
Numerous companies and individuals are engaged in the business of licensing
entertainment properties and characters in the entertainment-related licensing
market. We compete with a wide range of other corporations as well as
individuals in the licensing market. Competition in the book licensing and
packaging business is somewhat less intense than that in the other areas of our
business, as it is based for the most part on unique, original concepts and
long-term relationships.

         We may not be able to successfully protect our Trademarks and
Proprietary Rights.

                  Internet Businesses. We own trademark registrations in the
United States for ALL ABOUT MOVIES, HOLLYWOOD ONLINE AND MOVIETUNES and in a
number of foreign countries for HOLLYWOOD ONLINE. We have filed trademark
applications in the United States and in foreign countries for the marks
HOLLYWOOD.COM, MOVIETUNES.COM, THE GOLDEN HITCH, BROADWAY.COM and the slogans
GIVING TRAILERS THE RESPECT THEY DESERVE, ISN'T IT TIME YOU WENT HOLLYWOOD!, ON
STAGE! ONLINE, and WHERE MOVIEGOERS GO.

                                       10
<PAGE>

         Our performance and ability to compete are dependent to a significant
degree on our internally developed and licensed content and technology. We rely
on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality
and nondisclosure agreements with our employees and with third parties and
contractual provisions to establish and maintain our proprietary rights. There
can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights
will be adequate, or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate
our copyrights, trademarks, service marks and similar proprietary rights. In
addition, effective copyright and trademark protection may be unenforceable or
limited in certain foreign countries. In the future, litigation may be necessary
to enforce and protect our trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, copyrights
and other intellectual property rights. Any such litigation would be costly and
could divert management's attention, which could have a material adverse effect
on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse
determinations in such litigation could result in the loss of certain of our
proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek
licenses from third parties, or prevent us from selling our services, any one of
which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

         There can be no assurance that third parties will not bring copyright
or trademark infringement claims against us, or claim that our use of certain
technology violates a patent. Even if these claims are not meritorious, they
could be costly and could divert management's attention, which could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition. If it is determined that we have infringed upon or misappropriated a
third party's proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that any necessary
licenses or rights could be obtained on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. The
inability to obtain any required license on satisfactory terms could have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition. If our competitors prepare and file applications that claim
trademarks owned or registered by us, we may oppose these applications and have
to participate in administrative proceedings to determine priority of right in
the trademark, which could result in substantial costs to us, even if the
eventual outcome is favorable to us. An adverse outcome could require us to
license disputed rights from third parties or to cease using such trademarks. In
addition, inasmuch as we license a substantial portion of our content from third
parties, our exposure to copyright infringement or right of privacy or publicity
actions may increase; because we must rely upon such third parties for
information as to the origin and ownership of such licensed content. We
generally obtain representations as to the origins, ownership and right to use
such licensed content and generally obtain indemnification to cover any breach
of any such representations; however, there can be no assurance that such
representations will be accurate or that such indemnification will provide
adequate compensation for any breach of such representation. There can be no
assurance that the outcome of any litigation between such licensors and a third
party or between us and a third party will not lead to royalty obligations for
which we are not indemnified or for which such indemnification is insufficient,
or that we will be able to obtain any additional license on commercially
reasonable terms if at all.

         In 1999 we obtained a federal trademark registration for the name
HOLLYWOOD ONLINE and in 1998 we obtained a federal trademark registration for
the name BIG ENTERTAINMENT. In December 2000 we changed our corporate name and
primary branding to HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP. We have filed a number of United
States trademark applications for HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP., HOLLYWOOD.COM,
BROADWAY.COM and variants thereof, and foreign trademark applications for
HOLLYWOOD.COM. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure adequate
protection for these names or other trademarks in the United States or in
foreign countries. If we obtain registration of those trademarks, we may not be
able to prevent our competitors from using different trademarks that contain the
words "Hollywood" or "Broadway." Many countries have a "first-to-file" trademark
registration system; and thus we may be prevented from registering our marks in
certain countries if third parties have previously filed applications to
register or have registered the same or similar marks. It is possible that our
competitors or others will adopt product or service names similar to ours,
thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possible leading to
customer confusion. Our inability to protect our HOLLYWOOD.COM and BROADWAY.COM
marks and other marks adequately could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

                                       11
<PAGE>

         Intellectual Properties Business. The Company has applied for trademark
and copyright protection for each of its major intellectual property titles and
featured characters. The Company (including Netco Partners) currently has
approximately 46 U.S. registered trademarks and approximately 7 trademark
applications are pending related to this business. As the Company's properties
are developed, the Company intends to apply for further trademark and copyright
protection in the United States and certain foreign countries.

         Copyright protection in the United States on new publications of works
for hire extend for a term of 95 years from the date of initial publication or
120 years from the year of creation, whichever expires first. Trademark
registration in the United States extends for a period of ten years following
the date of registration. To maintain the registration, affidavits must be filed
between the fifth and sixth years following the registration date affirming that
the trademark is still in use in commerce and providing evidence of such use.
The trademark registration must be renewed prior to the expiration of the
ten-year period following the date of registration.

         We have a history of losses and an accumulated deficit. We anticipate
further losses in the future and our operating results could fluctuate
significantly on a quarterly and annual basis.

         We have incurred significant losses since we began doing business. In
the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 we had net losses of
approximately $51.8, $24.7 and $10.7 million, respectively. As of December 31,
2000, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $112.8 million. We expect
to incur additional losses during the next several years while we continue to
grow our businesses. Our future success will depend on the continued growth in
the use of the Internet in general and our web site in particular and our
ability to generate advertising, syndication and ticketing revenues.

         In addition, our Internet and ticketing operating results may fluctuate
significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including:

o        the level of Internet usage generally and the level of traffic on our
         web site in particular;

o        supply and demand for Internet advertising;

o        seasonal trends in Internet usage, Internet sales and advertising
         placements;

o        the addition or loss of advertisers;

o        our ability to enter into or renew strategic relationships and
         agreements with popular media and entertainment organizations, web site
         and media celebrities;

o        the amount and timing of our marketing expenditures and other costs
         relating to the expansion of our Internet operations;

o        price competition or pricing changes in the industry;

o        new products, web site or Internet services introduced by us or our
         competitors;

o        technical difficulties, security concerns or system downtime affecting
         the Internet generally or the operation of our web site in particular;
         and

o        general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the
         Internet, electronic commerce and online media.

                                       12
<PAGE>

         As a result, our operating results for any particular period may not
accurately predict our future operating results.

         We may require additional capital to finance our operations and there
can be no assurance that additional financing will be available

         We have required substantial financing to fund our acquisitions and
growth and we expect to continue to require additional financing for marketing
and promotional activities, to fund our growth plan and for working capital. Our
current operating plans and assumptions indicate that anticipated cash flows
when combined with cash on hand and other potential sources of capital will be
enough to meet our working capital requirements for the next twelve months. If
plans change or our assumptions prove to be inaccurate, we may need to seek
further financing or curtail our operations. Our long-term financial success
depends on our ability to generate enough revenue to offset operating expenses.
To the extent we do not generate sufficient revenues to offset expenses we will
require further financing to fund our ongoing operations. We cannot assure you
that any additional financing will be available or if available, that it will be
on favorable terms.

         We must manage our growth in order to achieve the desired results.

         We have significantly expanded our Internet and ticketing operations
over the past two years through our acquisitions of the businesses of
hollywood.com, Inc., CinemaSource, Inc., Baseline II, Inc., BroadwayTheater.com,
Inc. and Theatre Direct NY, Inc. and through the launch of Broadway.com,
MovieTickets.com and our Portuguese and Spanish-language sites in Brazil,
Argentina and Mexico. We plan to continue to expand our operations and market
presence by entering into joint ventures, acquisitions, business combinations,
investments, or other strategic alliances. These transactions create risks such
as:

o        difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the
         combined companies;

o        disruption of our ongoing business;

o        increased marketing and advertising expenses to promote new ventures;

o        problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel;

o        the availability of financing to make acquisitions;

o        expenses associated with amortization of goodwill and other purchased
         intangible assets;

o        additional operating losses and expenses of acquired businesses; and

o        impairment of relationships with existing employees, customers and
         business partners.

         We may not succeed in addressing these risks. In addition, some of our
new businesses may incur operating losses. To the extent that we are unable to
identify and successfully integrate future ventures into our operations, our
growth strategy may not be successful and our stock price could be adversely
impacted.

                                       13
<PAGE>




         We are dependent on our ability to develop strategic relationships with
media and entertainment organizations.

         The success of our Internet operations is dependent in part on our
ability to enter into and renew strategic relationships and agreements with
media and entertainment organizations. Our intellectual property division is
dependent on our ability to identify, attract and retain best-selling authors
and media celebrities who create our intellectual properties. Our business could
be harmed by the loss of the services of one or more of the people who have
developed relationships with the best-selling authors and media celebrities who
create our intellectual properties. Similarly, our business could be harmed if
those relationships change or if we do not develop new relationships.

         Our operations could be negatively impacted by systems interruptions.

         The hardware and software used in our Internet operations, or that of
our affiliates, could be damaged by fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss,
telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Our web site could
also be affected by computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar
disruptive problems. These system problems could affect our business. Insurance
may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any
failures or interruptions in systems. We do not currently have a formal system
disaster recovery plan. General Internet traffic interruptions or delays could
also harm our business. As with Internet web site in general, our web site may
experience slower response times or decreased traffic for a variety of reasons.
Additionally, online service providers have experienced significant outages in
the past, and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to
system failures unrelated to our systems. To the extent our services are
disrupted, we could lose viewers to our web site and our advertising revenues
could decline.

         We are subject to additional security risks by doing business over the
Internet.

         A significant obstacle to consumer acceptance of electronic commerce
over the Internet has been the need for secure transmission of confidential
information in transaction processing. Internet usage could decline if any
well-publicized compromise of security occurred. We may incur additional costs
to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems
caused by these breaches. If a third person were able to misappropriate our
users' personal information or credit card information, we could be held liable.

         We may not be able to adapt as Internet technologies and customer
demands continue to evolve.

         To be successful, we must adapt to rapidly changing Internet
technologies by continually enhancing our web site and introducing new services
to address our customers' changing demands. We could incur substantial costs if
we need to modify our services or infrastructure in order to adapt to changes
affecting providers of Internet services. Our business, results of operations
and financial condition would be adversely affected if we incurred significant
costs to adapt, or if we cannot adapt to these changes.

         Government regulation of the Internet could impact our business.

         Federal and state governments have recently adopted many new laws and
regulations directly applicable to the Internet. In addition, laws and
regulations may be adopted in the future that further address issues such as
user privacy, pricing, taxation, content, copyrights, advertising, and the
characteristics and quality of products and services. Although we endeavor to



                                       14
<PAGE>

comply with all applicable laws and regulations, as new laws are adopted there
is a risk that we will not be in full compliance. Any new laws or regulations
relating to the Internet could also hurt our business.

         We may not be able to acquire or maintain effective web addresses.

         We hold rights to more than 150 web domain names, including
hollywood.com, hollywood.net, broadway.com, broadway.net, musicsite.com,
showtimes.com, theater.com, allaboutmovies.com, cableguide.com, cablesite.com,
cdguide.com, cdsite.com, cinemasite.com, eguide.com, esites.com, filmpick.com,
moviecritics.com, movieguide.com, moviepeople.com and moviesite.com.
Governmental agencies typically regulate domain names. These regulations are
subject to change. We may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain
names in all countries in which we plan to do business. Furthermore, regulations
governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary
rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names
that are similar to, infringe upon or diminish the value of our trademarks and
other proprietary rights. In addition, we may not be able to secure the rights
to appropriate domains using new top level domains that are developed and
marketed from time to time, such as ".cc."

         We are dependent on Mitchell Rubenstein and Laurie S. Silvers, our
founders.

         Mitchell Rubenstein, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer, and Laurie S. Silvers, our Vice Chairman, President and Secretary, have
been primarily responsible for our organization and development. The loss of the
services of either of these individuals would hurt our business. Their
employment agreements provide, among other things, that if we terminate either
of their agreements without "cause," we will have also terminated the other's
agreement without "cause." Termination without "cause" entitles each to receive
his or her salary for the remainder of the term of employment.

         There is intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry
and the limited availability of qualified individuals could become an issue of
increasing concern in the future. Our future success will be dependent upon our
ability to attract and retain qualified and creative key management personnel.

         Viacom Inc. beneficially owns approximately 31% of our common stock and
its interests may differ from yours.

         Viacom Inc.'s significant equity interest in us and other rights we
have granted to Viacom could delay or prevent a merger or other transaction
involving a change of control of us that could be beneficial to you. Viacom
beneficially owns approximately 31% of our outstanding common stock. Viacom also
currently has the right to nominate two individuals for election to our board of
directors. If we issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock
in the future, Viacom will, with some exceptions, have the right to purchase for
cash securities from us so it can maintain its percentage ownership. As a result
of its equity interest in us and its right to nominate individuals for election
to our board, Viacom may be able to influence our management and affairs.


                                       15
<PAGE>


         The accounting treatment of Viacom Inc.'s investment in us will result
in future non-cash expenses on our income statement.

         Viacom Inc.'s commitment to provide $105.5 million of advertising,
promotion and content for our Hollywood.com and Broadway.com web site is
recorded as an asset on our balance sheet. The original amount of the asset was
approximately $137 million, the fair market value of the common stock issued to
Viacom in exchange for the $105.5 million of advertising and $10.8 million in
cash. As we receive the advertising, promotion and content from Viacom over the
seven-year term of the agreements, we will record a non-cash expense on our
income statement in an amount equal to the value paid for the advertising,
promotion and content received. We currently expect to record an expense of
approximately $19.6 million per year to reflect the value of the advertising,
promotion and content expected to be received each year during the seven-year
term. This expense will result in a net loss to us to the extent our revenues do
not increase by an amount at least equal to the amount of the expense.

         Our stock price is volatile.

         The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate
significantly. During the past 12 months, the trading price for our common stock
on the Nasdaq Stock Market has ranged from $3.00 to $16.25 per share. Our stock
price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as our
quarterly operating results, announcements of new products or services,
announcements of mergers, acquisitions, strategic alliances, or divestitures and
other factors, including similar announcements by other companies that investors
may consider to be comparable to us. In addition, the stock market in general,
and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have
experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating
performance of the companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may
adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating
performance.

         Our stock price may be hurt if the number of investors seeking to sell
shares of our common stock in the public market increases.

         As of March 26, 2000, approximately 12 million shares of our common
stock, representing approximately 48% of our outstanding shares of common stock,
constituted "restricted securities" as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities
Act. Most of these shares are subject to agreements with the Company permitting
the holders thereof to demand that the Company register the shares for resale
under the Securities Act. This will permit the sale of registered shares of
common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions without
compliance with the requirements of Rule 144. We are unable to estimate the
amount, timing or nature of future sales of outstanding common stock. Sales of
substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely
affect the market price for our common stock. In addition, a decline in the
price of our common stock would likely impede our ability to raise capital
through the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other equity
securities.

         Our common stock price may be hurt by the effects of outstanding
options, warrants and convertible securities.

         As of March 15, 2001, we had options and warrants outstanding for the
purchase of an aggregate of approximately 4.7 million shares of our common stock
with an average exercise price of $11.96 per share, and we plan to issue
additional options from time to time to our employees and directors. Exercise of
these options and warrants will cause dilution to existing shareholders. As long
as these options and warrants remain unexercised or are not converted, the terms
under which we can obtain additional capital may be adversely affected.
Moreover, the holders of the options and warrants may exercise or convert them
at a time when we are attempting to obtain needed capital by a new offering of
our securities on terms more favorable than those provided by these securities.


                                       16
<PAGE>

         In connection with our financing on August 22, 2000, we issued
adjustment warrants to certain investors. We have issued and expect to continue
through September 2001 to issue additional shares of common stock to the
investors for no additional consideration upon their exercise of the adjustment
warrants. The precise number of shares of common stock to be issued is
determined in accordance with a formula set forth in the adjustment warrants.

         Additionally, our board of directors may, without shareholder approval,
issue additional shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation,
conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power
or other rights of the holders of our common stock.

         There are risks that may make it difficult for us to achieve the
outcomes predicted in our forward-looking statements.

         Many of the statements included in this Form 10-K and in the documents
incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including the description of our
plans, strategies, pending or possible acquisitions and financing plans, are
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities
Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our actual
future performance could differ materially from these forward-looking statements
or that are otherwise made by us or on our behalf. "Forward-looking statements"
are not based on historical facts and are typically phrased using words such as
"may," "will," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "could," "estimate"
or "continue" and similar expressions or variations.

         Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
from our expectations include those risks identified under this "Risk Factors"
section, well as those discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in our filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We caution you not to place undue
reliance on these forward-looking statements. All written and oral
forward-looking statements attributable to the us or persons acting on our
behalf are qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.

Employees

         At March 15, 2001, we employed approximately 213 full-time and 29
part-time employees. Of our 242 employees, 110 employees are engaged in our
business-to-business syndication and licensing divisions conducted through
Baseline, CinemaSource and EventSource, 44 employees are engaged in our
ticketing divisions, 37 employees are engaged in the development and production
of Hollywood.com, Broadway.com and our other content-based web sites, 4
employees are engaged in our intellectual properties division, and 47 are
corporate, technology and administrative employees. None of the employees are
represented by a labor union, nor have we experienced any work stoppages. We
consider our relations with our employees to be good.

                                       17
<PAGE>

Item 2.  Properties.
         -----------

         The Company leases office space in Florida, California, Connecticut and
New York. The general terms of the leases for each of these locations are as
follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                        Current
            Location                Square Feet       Monthly Rent         Expiration Date
            --------                -----------       ------------         ---------------
<S>                                    <C>              <C>                       <C> <C>
          Baseline and                 8,500            $23,375           October 31, 2010
          Broadway.com
          New York, NY

     Corporate Headquarters            9,200            $19,876            August 31, 2002
         Boca Raton, FL                5,850             $9,040          September 30, 2006

         Hollywood.com                 2,002             $5,672             July 31, 2001
     Hollywood, California

   CinemaSource, EventSource,          5,365             $7,040          September 30, 2002
Theatersource and ConcertSource        5,660             $5,000            Month to Month
         Ridgefield, CT

  Theatre Direct International         3,250             $8,125            March 31, 2009
          New York, NY                  710              $2,012           November 30, 2003
</TABLE>


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.
         -----------------

         The Company is a party to various legal proceedings arising in the
ordinary course of business, including the proceedings described below and
litigation related to four separate leases that were terminated by the Company
upon the closing of its retail business. We do not expect any of these legal
proceedings to have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial
condition or results of operations.

         Steven B. Katinsky v. The Times Mirror Company, Hollywood.com, Inc. and
Hollywood Online Inc. filed on September 8, 2000 in Superior Court of the State
of California for the County of Los Angeles. The lawsuit was dismissed in
December 2000 and the parties were ordered to arbitrate the dispute. Claim
against Tribune Company (formerly The Times Mirror Company) and the Company
seeking a performance cycle bonus allegedly owing to the claimant by Tribune
Company in connection with the sale of Hollywood Online Inc. from Tribune
Company to the Company. The claimant is seeking monetary damages in excess of
$19.8 million for alleged fraud by the defendants in connection with the sale of
Hollywood Online Inc. to the Company. The Company is indemnified by Tribune
Company for the amount of any such performance cycle bonus payable to the
claimant. The Company believes that all claims by the claimant against the
Company are without merit and intends to defend them vigorously.

                                       18
<PAGE>

         Interviews.com v. Hollywood Online, Inc. filed on August 17, 2000 in
Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles. The
lawsuit was dismissed in January 2001 and the parties were given the right to
arbitrate the dispute. The parties have not commenced an arbitration proceeding.
Claim by Interviews.com that the Company's wholly owned subsidiary,
hollywood.com, Inc. (formerly known as Hollywood Online Inc.), did not timely
perform its obligations with respect to the transfer of several domain names
under an Assignment Agreement dated December 17, 1997. Interviews.com is owned
and controlled by Steven Katinsky, the claimant in the matter described above.
All matters related to this claim occurred prior to the Company's acquisition of
Hollywood Online, Inc. in May 1999 and all domain names subject to the dispute
have been transferred to the claimant. The domain names transferred were not
being utilized by the Company and were not related to the Company's business.
The claimant is seeking monetary damages in excess of $5 million. The Company
believes that this claim is without merit and intends to defend it vigorously.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Securityholders.
         ---------------------------------------------------

         The Company held its annual meeting of shareholders on December 15,
2000. The following describes the matters voted upon at the annual meeting and
the number of votes cast for and against, as well as abstentions and broker
non-votes, if any, with respect to each matter:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

A.       Election of Directors

                  Nominee                              Votes For                  Votes Against
                  -------                              ---------                  -------------

<S>                                                    <C>                        <C>
                  Mitchell Rubenstein                  19,753,586                 1,173,447
                  Laurie S. Silvers                    19,753,586                 1,173,447
                  Dr. Martin H. Greenberg              19,753,586                 1,173,447
                  Harry T. Hoffman                     20,832,026                 95,007
                  Russell I. Pillar                    20,832,026                 95,007
                  Jules L. Plangere, Jr.               20,832,026                 95,007
                  Mitchell Semel                       20,832,026                 95,007
                  Deborah J. Simon                     20,832,026                 95,007
                  David D. Williams                    20,430,835                496,198
</TABLE>

B.       Approval of an amendment and restatement of the Company's Second
         Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation to change the Company's
         name to Hollywood Media Corp.

                                              Number                 Percentage
                                              ------                 ----------

                  For                         20,915,926                99%
                  Against                          9,877                 1%

                                       19
<PAGE>


C.       Approval and adoption of the Company's 2000 Stock Incentive Plan.

                                                Number               Percentage
                                                ------               ----------

                  For                         15,736,972                 75%
                  Against                      2,642,463               12.6%

D.       Ratification of the selection of Arthur Andersen LLP as the Company's
         independent public accountants for the year ending December 31, 2000.

                                              Number                 Percentage
                                              ------                 ----------

                  For                         20,915,391                 99%
                  Against                          8,480                  1%



                                       20
<PAGE>

                                     PART II


Item 5.  Market for Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.
         --------------------------------------------------------

Market for Common Stock

         Hollywood Media Corp.'s common stock trades on The Nasdaq Stock Market
("Nasdaq") under the symbol HOLL. The following table sets forth, for the
periods indicated below, the high and low sales prices for the common stock, as
reported by Nasdaq.

                                                    High              Low
                                                    ----              ---
2000
First Quarter...............................    $   20.500         $ 14.500
Second Quarter..............................    $   15.750         $  7.500
Third Quarter...............................    $   11.813         $  5.375
Fourth Quarter..............................    $    8.000         $  3.000

1999
First Quarter...............................    $   17.250         $  9.875
Second Quarter..............................    $   34.000         $ 12.375
Third Quarter...............................    $   25.000         $ 15.000
Fourth Quarter..............................    $   24.500         $ 14.250

Holders of Common Stock

         As of March 15, 2001, there were 214 record holders of the Company's
common stock and approximately 2,976 beneficial holders of the Company's common
stock.

Dividend Policy

         The Company has never paid cash dividends on its common stock and
currently intends to retain any future earnings to finance its operations and
the expansion of its business. Therefore, the payment of any cash dividends on
the common stock is unlikely in the foreseeable future. Any future determination
to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and
will be dependent upon the Company's earnings, capital requirements and
financial condition and such other factors deemed relevant by the Board of
Directors.

Sales of Unregistered Securities

         See Note 11 to the Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II
of this Form 10-K with respect to sales of unregistered securities by the
Company during 2000. All of such sales were made pursuant to the exemption from
registration afforded by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.


                                       21
<PAGE>


Item 6   Selected Financial Data
         -----------------------
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                               YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        2000             1999            1998             1997             1996
                                                  -------------    -------------    -------------    -------------    -------------
<S>                                               <C>              <C>              <C>              <C>              <C>
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA:
Net revenue                                       $  29,517,505    $  10,106,111    $  11,126,516    $  10,291,447    $   7,611,113
Cost of sales                                        14,264,002        3,572,832        5,987,383        5,447,989        4,922,761
                                                  -------------    -------------    -------------    -------------    -------------

Gross profit                                         15,253,503        6,533,279        5,139,133        4,843,458        2,688,352
                                                  -------------    -------------    -------------    -------------    -------------
Operating Expenses:
         General and administrative                  11,220,529        8,227,022        5,196,364        4,902,675        4,969,883
         Selling and marketing                        9,593,871        5,074,568        2,566,702        1,378,085               --
         Salaries and benefits                       11,810,803        5,916,024        4,151,725        3,884,926        3,374,090
         Amortization of CBS advertising
             non-cash                                24,244,647        2,344,950               --               --               --
         Amortization of goodwill and intangibles     6,775,206        3,704,011           31,428          347,312          451,683
         Depreciation and amortization                4,323,331        1,627,056        1,076,983          831,623               --
         Provision  for closed stores and
         lease termination costs                        233,763        4,551,094        1,121,028               --               --
                                                  -------------    -------------    -------------    -------------    ------------

           Total operating expenses                  68,202,150       31,444,725       14,144,230       11,344,621        8,795,656
                                                  -------------    -------------    -------------    -------------    -------------

Operating Loss                                      (52,948,647)     (24,911,446)      (9,005,097)      (6,501,163)      (6,107,304)

Equity in Earnings of Investments                     1,906,132        1,188,142          877,549        2,702,049             --
Interest income (expense), net                         (339,522)        (563,909)        (818,849)        (323,118)        (182,700)
Other income (expense), net                             (54,434)          (3,440)          42,989           73,894           55,470
Minority Interest                                      (411,029)        (366,371)        (347,081)        (354,609)        (421,075)
Deferred tax (expense) benefit                               --               --       (1,407,600)       1,407,600               --
                                                  -------------    -------------    -------------    -------------    ------------

Net loss                                          $ (51,847,500)   $ (24,657,024)   $ (10,658,089)   $  (2,995,347)   $  (6,655,609)
                                                  =============    =============    =============    =============    =============



Net loss per share - basic and diluted            $       (2.23)   $       (2.01)   $       (1.47)   $       (.51)    $       (1.22)
                                                  =============    =============    =============    =============    =============

Weighted average common and common
         Equivalent shares outstanding -
         Basic and diluted                           23,270,862       12,310,195        7,456,651        6,316,013        5,477,595
                                                  =============    =============    =============    =============        =========

                                                                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        2000             1999            1998             1997             1996
                                                  -------------    -------------    -------------    -------------    -------------

BALANCE SHEET DATA:
Cash and cash equivalents                         $   1,911,224    $   2,475,345    $     729,334    $     887,153    $   1,675,852
Working capital (deficit)                            14,871,414       (4,817,879)      (1,407,449)        (175,730)       1,285,093
Total assets                                        169,278,082       62,482,825        8,569,821       12,639,921        8,243,419
Capital lease obligations, less current portion         721,521          995,213        1,741,062        1,803,344          731,807
Total shareholders' equity                          158,693,890       49,498,786        1,523,435        5,103,853        4,191,867

</TABLE>



                                       22
<PAGE>



Item 7   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
         ---------------------------------------------------------------
         Results of Operations.
         ---------------------

Overview

         We are an entertainment-focused media and Internet company that offers
widely recognized brands and a broad collection of entertainment content data
and related information in the industry, which we license to media and other
companies including the New York Times, AOL Time Warner, Yahoo!, Sprint, AT&T
Wireless, Verizon and others. The Company owns an extensive ticketing network
and is engaged in the development and licensing of intellectual properties and
licensing of books. The Company generates revenues through the
business-to-business syndication of entertainment-related content, the sale of
live theater tickets, the sale of advertising, and from advances paid by
publishers and royalties received from our library of book titles.

         We were incorporated in 1993 and our business initially consisted of
publishing comic books, the development and licensing of intellectual
properties, and the operation of entertainment-related retail stores. During
1997 we stopped publishing comic books, and during 1998 and 1999 we phased out
all of our retail stores in order to focus our resources on the launch of an
Internet business. In January 2001, we closed our e-commerce division in order
to focus on our profitable business segments.

         Since 1998, we have significantly expanded our business through
acquisitions of other entertainment-related businesses and the development of
strategic relationships with major media companies to promote our businesses.

o        On May 18, 1999, we purchased substantially all of the assets of
         CinemaSource, Inc., a business-to-business company that licenses movie
         showtimes and other movie-related information to newspaper companies,
         wireless companies, Internet sites and other media outlets.

o        On May 20, 1999, we acquired hollywood.com, Inc., which owns and
         operates Hollywood.com.

o        On August 31, 1999, we purchased Baseline II which includes the
         PKBaseline.com pay-per-use movie database web site and several
         movie-related publications.

o        On January 3, 2000, we completed an agreement with Viacom Inc. (as
         successor to CBS Corporation) providing for the issuance to Viacom of
         6,672,031 shares of our common stock in exchange for $105.5 million of
         CBS advertising and promotion over seven years across its full range of
         media properties and $10.8 million in cash.

o        On May 1, 2000 we launched Broadway.com.

o        On May 1, 2000 we acquired substantially all the assets of
         BroadwayTheater.com. BroadwayTheater.com sells theater tickets online
         predominately for Broadway, off-Broadway and London theater. This
         business was integrated within Broadway.com.

o        On September 15, 2000 we acquired Theatre Direct International (TDI), a
         ticketing wholesaler of Broadway, off-Broadway and London theater
         tickets to the travel industry (including travel agencies and tour
         operators) and educational institutions.

                                       23
<PAGE>


         These changes to our business have affected our results of operations
and financial condition. Historically, we generated revenues from our
intellectual properties business and our entertainment retail operations. Our
intellectual properties business primarily consists of the licensing of complete
stories and ideas for stories to book publishers and film and television studios
and book development and book packaging activities. Our retail operations
consisted of the sale of entertainment-related products and other merchandise at
mall-based retail stores. As the result of the closing of all of our retail
stores by the end of 1999, we will rely on our b2b syndication operations,
Broadway and movie ticketing operations, advertising sales and our intellectual
properties business to generate revenues for the foreseeable future.

         The growth of our syndication, ticketing and Internet ad sales
operations has required substantial financing and we expect to continue to
require additional financing to fund our growth plan and for working capital.
Our operating plans and assumptions indicate that anticipated cash flows when
combined with other potential sources of capital, will be enough to meet our
working capital requirements for the year 2000. If plans change or our
assumptions prove to be inaccurate, we may need to seek further financing or
curtail our operations. Our long-term financial success depends on our ability
to generate enough revenue to offset operating expenses. To the extent we do not
generate sufficient revenues to offset expenses we will require further
financing to fund our ongoing operations.

         The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction
with the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto
included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report.

Results of Operations

         Year ended December 31, 2000 ("fiscal 2000") as compared to the Year
ended December 31, 1999 ("fiscal 1999") and year ended December 31, 1998
("fiscal 1998")

         The following table summarizes the Company's revenues, cost of sales,
and gross profit by division for fiscal, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively:



                                       24
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                            Business to
                               Internet      Business                    Intellectual        E-
                               Ad Sales        (b2b)        Ticketing    Properties (a)   Commerce         Retail          Total
                             -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------     -----------     -----------
<S>                          <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>             <C>             <C>
Fiscal 2000


Net Revenues                 $ 8,777,397    $ 5,442,309    $12,278,008    $ 1,998,091    $   987,181     $    34,519     $29,517,505
Cost of Sales                    791,770        270,806     10,663,913      1,125,815      1,146,007         265,691      14,264,002
                             -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------     -----------     -----------
Gross Profit                 $ 7,985,627    $ 5,171,503    $ 1,614,095    $   872,276    $  (158,826)    $  (231,172)    $15,253,503
                             ===========    ===========    ===========    ===========    ===========     ===========     ===========


Fiscal 1999


Net Revenues                 $ 3,950,931    $ 1,765,732    $        --    $ 1,888,868    $   924,098     $ 1,576,482     $10,106,111
Cost of Sales                    435,940        122,496             --        826,355        677,509       1,510,532       3,572,832
                             -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------     -----------     -----------
Gross Profit                 $ 3,514,991    $ 1,643,236    $        --    $ 1,062,513    $   246,589     $    65,950     $ 6,533,279
                             ===========    ===========    ===========    ===========    ===========     ===========     ===========


Fiscal 1998


Net Revenues                 $        --    $        --    $        --    $ 2,337,019    $        --     $ 8,789,497     $11,126,516
Cost of Sales                         --             --             --      1,191,261             --       4,796,122       5,987,383
                             -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------     -----------     -----------
Gross Profit                 $        --    $        --    $        --    $ 1,145,758    $        --     $ 3,993,375     $ 5,139,133
                             ===========    ===========    ===========    ===========    ===========     ===========     ===========
</TABLE>

(a)           This does not include the Company's 50% interest in NetCo
              Partners which is accounted for under the equity method of
              accounting and is reported as equity in earnings of investments.

Composition of our segments is as follows:

o        Internet ad sales - Includes advertising sold on the web sites
         Hollywood.com, Broadway.com and the international versions of
         Hollywood.com.

o        Business to Business (b2b) - Includes our CinemaSource, EventSource,
         TheaterSource, ConcertSource and Baseline syndication operations.

o        Ticketing - Includes our TDI ticketing business as well as the online
         ticketing operations generated through Broadway.com.

o        Intellectual Properties - Includes our book development and book
         licensing operation through our 51% owned subsidiary Tekno Books and
         our 50.5% interest in Fedora, publisher of Mystery Scene Magazine. Does
         not include our 50% interest in NetCo Partners.

o        E-Commerce - The Company exited the e-commerce business in
         January 2001.

o        Retail - This included the Company's brick and mortar retail operations
         which were closed on December 31, 1999.

                                       25
<PAGE>

Net Revenues

         Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2000 were $29,517,505
compared to $10,106,111 for the year ended December 31, 1999 and $11,126,516 for
the year ended December 31, 1998. Revenues increased $19,411,394 or 192% in 2000
from 1999. This increase is attributable to having a complete fiscal year of
operations in 2000 for the Company's business to business and ad sales
divisions, the growth of EventSource (b2b unit), launch of Broadway.com in 2000
and also the acquisition of two businesses in 2000 that sell theater tickets.
Revenues decreased $1,020,405 or 9% in 1999 as compared to 1998 because the
Company began to phase-out of the retail business during 1999 and ultimately
closed all its retail operations in December 1999. This decrease in retail
revenues was offset from revenues generated in its business to business and
advertising sales divisions which were acquired in 1999. In 2000, revenues are
derived 42% from ticketing, 30% from advertising sales, 18% from business to
business, 7% intellectual properties and 3% from e-commerce.

Internet ad sales revenue increased to $8,777,397 for 2000 from $3,950,931 for
1999, an increase of $4,826,466 or 122%. The Company began to generate Internet
ad sales in May 1999 with the acquisition of Hollywood.com. Therefore, there was
no Internet ad sales revenue recognized in 1998. Internet ad sales revenue is
derived from the sale of banner advertisements and sponsorships on
Hollywood.com, Broadway.com and the international versions of the Hollywood.com
web site.

Barter transactions that generate non-cash advertising revenue (included in
Internet as sales revenues), in which the Company received advertising or other
services in exchange for content advertising on its web site was $956,181 for
2000 and $480,100 for 1999 and accounted for 3% and 5% of the Company's total
net revenue for 2000 and 1999 respectively. The Company records barter revenue
and an equal amount of expense based on the fair value of similar cash
transactions that the company has entered into. In future periods, management
intends to maximize cash advertising revenue, although the Company will continue
to enter into barter relationships when deemed appropriate as a cashless method
for the Company to market its business.

The Company also records barter revenue and an equal amount of expense earned
under a contract with the National Association of Theater Owners ("NATO"), which
the Company acquired through its acquisition of hollywood.com on May 20, 1999.
This income is included in Internet ad sales revenue. Through the NATO contract,
the Company promotes its web site to movie audiences by airing movie trailers
about Hollywood.com, 40 out of 52 weeks per year, before the feature films that
play in most NATO-member theaters. In exchange, the Company provides web site
and movie showtimes for the exhibiting NATO members, promotional materials and
movie information and editorial content. The Company recorded $2,981,750 and
$1,913,290 in promotional non-cash revenue and non-cash expense included in
selling and marketing expense under the NATO contract for 2000 and 1999
respectively. Barter revenue from NATO recorded accounted for 10% and 19% of the
Company's total net revenue for 2000 and 1999 respectively.

Business to business (b2b) revenue increased to $5,442,309 for 2000 from
$1,765,732 for 1999, an increase of $3,676,577 or 208%. Business to business
revenue is generated by the licensing of movie, event and theater showtimes and
other content information to other Internet and media outlets including
newspapers such as The New York Times and Newsday, Internet companies including
AOL's Digital City, Yahoo!, Lycos, Excite, Ticketmaster/City Search, NBCi, and
wireless providers such as AT&T Wireless, Sprint PCS and Verizon. The Company
acquired the business to business (b2b) operations of CinemaSource and Baseline
on May 18, 1999 and August 31, 1999, respectively. Revenues have increased
predominately from revenues generated from the EventSource division which
launched in 2000 as an expansion of the CinemaSource business. EventSource
entered into a contract with AOL's Digital City in April 2000 to provide event
listing for up to 200 cities nationwide.


                                       26
<PAGE>

Ticketing revenue for 2000 was $12,278,008. Ticketing revenue is generated from
the sales of live theater tickets for Broadway, off-Broadway and London both
online and offline to domestic and international travel professionals, traveling
consumers and New York area theater patrons. The Company acquired
BroadwayTheater.com on May 1, 2000 and TDI on September 15, 2000, respectively.

E-commerce revenue increased $63,083 or 7% from $924,098 for 1999 to $987,181
for 2000. Revenues were consistent in 2000 as compared to 1999. The Company
exited the e-commerce business in January 2001.

Revenues from the Company's intellectual properties segment increased $109,223
or 6% to $1,998,091 for 2000 from $1,888,868 for 1999 and decreased $448,151 or
19% from $2,337,019 for 1998 to $1,888,868 for 1999. The increase in revenues is
attributable to a greater number of manuscripts being delivered in 2000 as
compared to 1999. The decrease in revenues from 1998 to 1999 is primarily a
reflection of the timing of revenue recognition under the various book licensing
and packaging agreements. The intellectual properties division generates
revenues from several different activities including book development and
licensing, intellectual property licensing and publishing Mystery Scene
Magazine. Revenues vary quarter to quarter depending on the timing of delivery
of manuscripts to the publishers. Revenues are recognized when the earnings
process is complete and ultimate collection of such revenues is no longer
subject to contingencies.

Gross Profit

         Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2000 was $15,253,503
compared to $6,533,279 for the year ended December 31, 1999 and $5,139,133 for
the year ended December 31, 1998. As a percentage of sales the gross profit
percentage in 2000 was 52% as compared to 65% in 1999 and 46% in 1998. The
variances in gross profits are attributable to changes in our revenue mix. From
1998 to 1999 we began to phase out of our retail operations which generally
generated a gross profit of 45% and acquired an ad sales operation and business
to business operation that generates gross profit percentages of 90%, thereby
increasing the gross profit percentage from 46% in 1998 to 65% in 1999. In 2000,
the Company acquired two ticketing businesses which comprised 42% of our
revenues and generates gross profits of 13%, thus reducing the overall gross
profit percentage in 2000 to 52% from 65% in 1999.

Equity in Earnings of  Investments

         Equity in net earnings of investments consists of the Company's 50%
interest in NetCo Partners and 31.67% in MovieTickets.com, Inc.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                      2000                  1999                 1998
                                                      ----                  ----                 ----

<S>                                            <C>                   <C>                    <C>
        NetCo Partners (a)                     $     2,300,418       $     1,188,142        $     877,549
        MovieTickets.com(b)                           (394,286)                   --                   --
                                               -----------------     ---------------        --------------
                                               $     1,906,132       $     1,188,142        $     877,549
                                               ===============        ==============        =============
</TABLE>

                                       27
<PAGE>


         (a)      NetCo Partners:

         NetCo Partners recognizes revenues when the earnings process has been
completed based on the terms of the various agreements and the manuscript has
been delivered to the publisher. When advances are received prior to completion
of the earnings process, NetCo Partners defers recognition of revenue until the
earnings process has been completed. The Company's 50% share in the earnings of
NetCo Partners amounted to $2,300,418 for 2000, an increase of 94% or $1,112,276
as compared to $1,188,142 for 1999. Revenues were $877,549 for 1998. Revenues
increased from 1999 to 2000 because two adult novels were delivered to the
publisher in 2000 as compared to only one adult novel being delivered in 1999.
In addition, NetCo Partners received net royalties of $404,253 for the home
video distribution of the ABC mini-series; as described more fully below. On
book projects, revenues are typically recognized upon delivery of the
manuscripts to the publishers. Costs related to acquisition, development and
sales of the intellectual properties and their licensed products are expensed in
proportion to the revenues that have been recognized.

         The licensing arrangement between NetCo Partners and ABC was modified
during 1998. The mini-series arrangement originally provided for a payment to
NetCo Partners of $1.6 million should the NetForce mini-series not air by May
1999 and a minimum guaranteed license fee in excess of $1.6 million if it aired.
NetCo Partners accrued the $1.6 million payment in 1997, as this represented the
minimum amount to be received by NetCo Partners under the ABC mini-series
agreement. Under the new arrangement with ABC, NetCo Partners receives a
$400,000 rights' fee, which was collected in 1998, and a profit participation in
the mini-series in lieu of the original license fee. The mini-series aired on
ABC during February 1999. Accordingly, the previously accrued payment was
reversed during 1998, the rights' fee was recorded as revenues, and any future
revenues from the mini-series will be based on a profit-sharing arrangement with
ABC.

         In April 1997, NetCo Partners entered into an agreement with The
Berkley Publishing Group ("Berkley"), a division of Penguin Putnam Inc., which
is part of the international media group Pearson plc, to publish a series of six
original NetForce novels. The contract, with total maximum advances of $22
million, calls for initial publication of the first book to coincide with the
airing of the ABC mini-series referred to above. The first book and second book
were published in 1999. Additional revenues under the Berkley Books contract
will be recognized as manuscripts on the remaining four adult books are
delivered and accepted by the publisher. NetCo Partners receives advances under
this contract based on specific milestones throughout the publication process
for each of the six books. This contract calls for royalties on paperback sales
to be earned by NetCo Partners at 15% of the publisher's suggested retail price.

         In April 1997, NetCo Partners also entered into a second agreement with
Berkley to publish up to 18 young adult novels based on NetForce. The contract
calls for total maximum advances of $900,000 in addition to royalties earned.

         Both of the Berkley contracts grant to Berkley only the North American
publishing rights to publish NetForce books. NetCo Partners has also licensed
the publication rights to NetForce in various countries throughout the world in
eight foreign languages. Acceptance of the manuscripts by Berkley, the North
American publisher, is deemed acceptance of the manuscripts by the foreign
publishers.


                                       28
<PAGE>

         (b)      MovieTickets.com. Inc.

         The Company entered into a joint venture agreement on February 29, 2000
with the movie theater chains AMC Entertainment Inc. and National Amusements,
Inc. to form MovieTickets.com, Inc. ("MovieTickets.com"). In August 2000 the
joint venture entered into an agreement with Viacom Inc. to acquire a five
percent interest in the joint venture for $25 million of advertising over 5
years. The company owned 31.67% of the MovieTickets.com, Inc. joint venture at
December 31, 2000. The Company records its investment under the equity method of
accounting, recognizing 31.67% of MovieTickets.com income or loss as equity in
net earnings - investments. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2000, the
Company recorded a loss of $394,286 in its investment in MovieTickets.com. At
December 31, 2000, the Company contributed $500,000 in cash to MovieTickets.com
and issued warrants to acquire 90,573 shares of common stock at an exercise
price of $17.875 per share valued at $1,000,000. The fair market value of the
warrant was recorded as goodwill and is being amortized over a life of ten
years.

         The MovieTickets.com web site launched in May 2000. The
MovieTickets.com web site allows users to purchase movie tickets and retrieve
them at "will call" windows or kiosks at theaters. The web site also features
movie content from Hollywood.com for all current and future release movies,
movie reviews and synopses, digitized movie trailers and photos, and box office
results. We expect the web site to generate revenues from service fees charged
to users for the purchase of tickets and the sale of advertising. Service fees
on ticket sales were introduced in November 2000. MovieTickets.com is promoted
through on-screen advertising in each participating exhibitor's movie screens
and through $25 million of Viacom advertising and promotion over the next five
years. MovieTickets.com's current participating exhibitors include AMC
Entertainment Inc., National Amusements, Inc, Famous Players, Inc., Marcus
Theaters, Muvico Entertainment and several regional exhibitors. These exhibitors
operate theaters located in all of the top twenty markets and approximately 70%
of the top 50 markets in the United States and Canada and represent
approximately 50% of the top 100 grossing theaters in North America. AMC
Entertainment Inc. is the largest movie theater operator in the United States
based on box office sales and Famous Players generates approximately half of all
box office sales in Canada.

         In early 2001, America Online, Inc. purchased a 3% equity interest in
MovieTickets.com for $8.5 million in cash. In connection with the transaction,
MovieTickets.com's ticket inventory will be promoted throughout America Online's
interactive properties and ticket inventory of AOL Moviefone will be featured on
MovieTickets.com.

         Operating Expenses

         General and administrative expenses consists of production costs,
technical and customer support, human resources and administrative functions as
well as professional and consulting service fees, telecommunications costs,
general insurance costs and occupancy costs. General and administrative expenses
for the year ended December 31, 2000 was $11,220,529 as compared to $8,227,022
and $5,196,364 for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The
increase is attributable to the completion of five acquisitions between 1999 and
2000. A full fiscal year of general and administrative expenses is not recorded
in both years with regard to the acquisition made.



                                       29
<PAGE>


         Salaries and benefits for the year ended December 31, 2000 were
$11,810,803 as compared to $5,916,024 and $4,151,725 for the years ended
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The increase in salaries is primarily
attributable to the acquisitions of two ticketing businesses in 2000 and the
impact of an entire fiscal year of salaries in 2000 for the businesses acquired
in 1999. In 1999 salaries and benefits for the Internet ad sales and syndication
businesses acquired includes expenses only from the date of acquisition to the
end of the year.

         The consolidation of the Hollywood.com web site technology and
production into its corporate offices in South Florida began in 2000 and was
completed in January 2001 and resulted in the Company being able to eliminate
considerable duplication of resources with savings to exceed $4.0 million in
2001 in the general and administrative and salaries and benefits areas. In
addition, the company closed its e-commerce division in January 2001 which had
generated operating losses of $2.5 million in 2000.

         Selling and marketing expenses includes advertising, marketing,
promotional, business development, public relations expenses and costs to
produce movie trailers. Also included is the non-cash expense portion of barter
advertising. Selling and marketing expense for the year ended December 31, 2000
was $9,593,871 as compared to $5,074,568 and $2,566,702 for the years ended
December 31, 1999 and 1998 respectively. Non-cash barter expense included in
selling and marketing was $3,937,931, $2,613,390 and $2,130,112 for years ended
December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The increase of $4,519,303 from
1999 to 2000 is attributable to an increase of $1,324,541 of non-cash barter
advertising expense and increased advertising on radio, television, online and
outdoor for the Company's Internet ad sales divisions and additional advertising
related to the launch of Broadway.com on May 1, 2000. In addition, in 2000 the
Company incurred up front production costs associated with advertising on CBS's
media properties.

         Amortization of goodwill and intangibles for the year ended December
31, 2000 was $6,775,206 compared to $3,704,011 and $31,428 in 1999 and 1998,
respectively. The increase of $3,071,195 from 1999 to 2000 is attributable to
goodwill and intangibles recorded in accordance with various acquisitions during
1999 and 2000. (See note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.) In
addition, a amortization expense in 2000 includes a full year of amortization on
the companies acquired in 1999.

         Depreciation expense, which consists of the depreciation of property
and equipment, furniture and fixtures, web development, leasehold improvements
and capital leases, for the year ended December 31, 2000 was $4,323,331 compared
to $1,627,056 and $1,076,983 for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. The increase in depreciation expense from 1999 to 2000 is
primarily attributable to the write-off in 2000 of the carrying value of the AOL
Latin America Services agreement of $3.2 million in 2000. The increase in
depreciation expense from 1998 to 1999 was primarily due to the acquisitions in
1999 and the additional equipment purchased to handle the increased traffic on
Hollywood.com.

         Provision for Closed Stores and Lease Termination Costs

         Reserve for closed stores and lease termination costs are $233,763 for
2000 as compared to $4,551,094 and $1,121,028 in 1999 and 1998, respectively.
The Company's retail operations were closed in December 1999. The remaining
carrying value of the fixed assets, inventory and other assets related to retail
operations were written off to provision for closed stores in 1999. A liability
was recorded for estimated cost of early lease terminations of $798,362 and
$2,366,432 at December 31, 2000 and 1999 respectively. See Note 9 to the
consolidated financial statements.


                                       30
<PAGE>

         Interest Expense, Net

         Net interest expense was $339,522 for the year ended December 31, 2000,
as compared to $563,909 and $818,849 for the years ended December 31, 1999 and
1998, respectively. The decrease in interest expense from 2000 to 1999 is
attributable to a decrease in our outstanding obligations under capital leases.
The decrease from 1998 to 1999 is also attributable to a reduction in the
inventory line of credit and a reduction in outstanding capital obligations,
offset by an increase in interest income.

         Deferred Tax Expense Benefit

         During 1997, the Company recognized $1,407,600 of deferred tax benefit
as the Company believed that realization of a portion of its net operating loss
carryforward was likely to occur based on the Company's projections of taxable
income that would have been generated upon consummation of a planned
transaction. In 1998, the Company decided not to proceed with the transaction,
and accordingly recorded a valuation allowance for the deferred tax benefit.


         Net Loss

         The Company's net loss for 2000 totaled $51,847,500 as compared to a
net loss of $24,657,024 for fiscal 1999. The loss for fiscal 1998 was
$10,658,089. The net loss increased by $27,190,476 for 2000 as compared to 1999
primarily because of an increase in amortization of CBS non-cash advertising of
$21,899,697, amortization of goodwill and intangibles of $3,071,195 and
operating losses incurred by the e-commerce division which was closed in January
2001 of $2,521,911. Net loss per share for fiscal 2000 was $2.23 as compared to
a net loss of $2.01 for fiscal 1999, representing an increase of $.22 loss per
share. The net loss per share for 1998 was $1.47. The per share impact of
depreciation, CBS non-cash advertising, amortization of goodwill and intangibles
on the 2000 and 1999 loss per share is $1.52 and $.62, respectively.

         The net loss increased from $10,658,089 in 1998 to $24,657,024 in 1999
primarily because of the amortization of CBS non-cash advertising of $2,344,950,
increase in provision for closed stores and lease termination costs of
$3,430,066, amortization of goodwill and intangibles of $3,672,583, and
operating losses incurred by the retail operations of approximately $3.0
million.

         The Company has taken several steps to substantially cut its cash
losses, the benefits of which are expected to materialize in 2001. During 2000,
the Company began a two step approach to consolidate Hollywood.com web site
technology and production into its corporate office in South Florida. Completed
in January 2001, the Company eliminated considerable duplication of resource
with savings expected to exceed $4,000,000 in 2001. Further, during the fourth
quarter of 2000, the Company, as part of its operational evaluation process,
determined that profitability in the e-commerce business could not be reached
due to tight margins and high fulfillment costs. The Company closed this
business in January 2001 which incurred a loss of $2,511,911 in 2000.

         The Company continues to focus its resources on the expansion of its
business to business, ticketing and Internet operations. Ticketing has become a
significant revenue source for the Company, most notably through the acquisition
of Theater Direct International in September 2000 and the launch of Broadway.com
in May 2000.


                                       31
<PAGE>

         While the Company believes that the acquisitions made during 2000
together with economies of scale introduced and closure of unprofitable business
will lead the Company to a positive operating cash flow for the year 2001, there
can be no assurances that the revenues generated will be sufficient to offset
the associated expenses incurred.

         Liquidity and Capital Resources

         At December 31, 2000, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of
$1,911,224 compared to cash and cash equivalents of $2,475,345 at December 31,
1999. Working capital at December 31, 2000, which includes $19,131,714 in
deferred advertising with CBS, was $14,871,414, as compared to a deficit of
$4,817,879 at December 31, 1999. Net cash used in operating activities during
fiscal 2000 was $13,017,504, primarily representing cash used to fund the
Company's pre-tax loss, net of non-cash expenses including depreciation and
amortization, reserve for closed stores and lease termination costs, CBS
advertising and the inventory reserve. Net cash used in investing activities was
$3,652,461, representing capital expenditures, acquisitions of web addresses and
other investments, and distributions to minority interests. Net cash provided by
financing activities amounted to $16,105,844 during 2000, primarily representing
proceeds from issuance of common stock and proceeds from exercise of stock
options and warrants. The combined effect of the above was a net decrease in
cash and cash equivalents of $564,121 during 2000.

         The Company's Board of Directors approved the repurchase of $4.0
million of the Company's common stock. Pursuant to the plan, during the twelve
months ended December 31, 2000 the Company repurchased 335,150 shares of common
stock for an aggregate consideration of $2,661,924, and an average purchase
price of $7.94 per share. In the aggregate, the Company has repurchased 417,500
shares of common stock for an aggregate consideration of $3,433,618 at an
average price of $8.22 per share.

         During 2000 the Company issued 1,480,872 shares of common stock upon
the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants for which the Company
received $7,022,412 in cash exercise proceeds and $5,468,501 in additional
promotional advertising from CBS.

         The success of the Company's operations in future years is dependent on
its ability to generate adequate revenue to offset operating expenses. Unless
otherwise noted, the proceeds from the financing transactions in 2000 and 1999
were used to complete the acquisitions of five businesses in 2000 and 1999 and
for general corporate purposes. The Company's management expects to require
additional financing for the expansion of its businesses, and to support working
capital requirements in future years.

         The Company is currently exploring additional financing alternatives,
including a bank line of credit to allow the Company to finance such expansion,
although there can be no assurance that such financing alternatives will be
available to the Company or can be obtained on terms favorable to the Company.

         In the event that the Company requires additional funding and cannot
secure additional funding, the Company's Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer and the Company's Vice Chairman and President, have indicated
their intention to provide the Company, if required, with an amount not to
exceed $6 million in order to enable the Company to meet its working capital
requirements during 2001; provided, however, that the commitment will terminate
to the extent that the Company raises no less than $6 million from other sources
and such additional funding is not expended on acquisitions.

         Inflation and Seasonality

         Although the Company cannot accurately determine the precise effects of
inflation, it does not believe inflation has a material effect on sales or
results of operations. The Company considers its business to be somewhat
seasonal and expects net revenues to be generally higher during the second and
fourth quarters of each fiscal year for its Tekno Books book licensing and
packaging operation as a result of the general publishing industry practice of
paying royalties semi-annually. In addition, although not seasonal, the
Company's intellectual properties division and NetCo Partners both experience
significant fluctuations in their respective revenue streams, earnings and cash
flow as a result of the significant amount of time that is expended in the
creation and development of the intellectual properties and their respective
licensing agreements. While certain of the development costs are incurred as
normal recurring operating expenses, the recognition of licensing revenue is
typically triggered by specific contractual events which occur at different
points in time rather than on a regular periodic basis.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk
         ---------------------------------------------------------

         Not applicable.

                                       32
<PAGE>

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                        Page
                                                                                                        ----

<S>                                                                                                      <C>
Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants........................................................34

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2000 and December 31, 1999.................................35

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999
   and 1998...............................................................................................36

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the Years
   Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.................................................................37

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2000,
   1999 and 1998..........................................................................................38

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements................................................................39
</TABLE>


                                       33
<PAGE>

               REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
               --------------------------------------------------

To Hollywood Media Corp.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Hollywood Media
Corp. (formerly Hollywood.com, Inc.) (a Florida corporation) and subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2000. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Hollywood Media Corp. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States.

As explained in Note 2 to the financial statements, effective January 20, 2000,
the Company adopted the consensus of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 99-17,
"Accounting For Advertising Barter Transactions" for advertising barter
transactions entered into after January 20, 2000.


ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


Miami, Florida,
March 30, 2001.





                                       34
<PAGE>

                     HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                      December 31,      December 31,
                                                                                         2000              1999
                                                                                     ------------       -------------
                                     ASSETS

CURRENT ASSETS:
<S>                                                                                   <C>               <C>
      Cash and cash equivalents                                                       $   1,911,224     $   2,475,345
      Receivables, net                                                                    1,866,565         1,155,999
      Inventories                                                                           106,700         1,246,733
      Prepaid expenses                                                                      687,028         1,687,347
      Other receivables                                                                     298,751            18,037
      Other current assets                                                                  240,450            67,541
      Deferred advertising - CBS                                                         19,131,714                --
                                                                                      -------------     -------------
      Total current assets                                                               24,242,432         6,651,002

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, net                                                               2,802,840         1,877,959
INVESTMENTS                                                                                 872,545           549,975
NONCURRENT DEFERRED ADVERTISING - CBS                                                    91,714,019                --
INTANGIBLE ASSETS, net                                                                    3,745,579         4,370,590
GOODWILL, net                                                                            45,173,047        46,483,647
OTHER ASSETS                                                                                727,620         2,549,652
                                                                                      -------------     -------------
TOTAL ASSETS                                                                          $ 169,278,082     $  62,482,825
                                                                                      =============     =============

                      LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

CURRENT LIABILITIES:
      Accounts payable                                                                $   3,194,105     $   2,181,089
      Accrued professional fees                                                             166,182           199,514
      Other accrued expenses (Note 10)                                                    2,277,931         1,579,682
      Deferred advertising - CBS                                                                 --         2,344,950
      Accrued reserve for closed stores                                                     798,362         2,366,432
      Deferred revenue                                                                    1,556,841           308,061
      Notes payable                                                                         750,000         1,928,138
      Current portion of capital lease obligations                                          627,597           561,015
                                                                                      -------------     -------------
      Total current liabilities                                                           9,371,018        11,468,881
                                                                                      -------------     -------------

CAPITAL LEASE OBLIGATIONS, less current portion                                             721,521           995,213
                                                                                      -------------     -------------
DEFERRED REVENUE                                                                            331,559           249,117
                                                                                      -------------     -------------
MINORITY INTEREST                                                                           160,094           270,828
                                                                                      -------------     -------------

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Note 15)

SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY:

      Preferred Stock, $.01 par value, 539,127 shares authorized; none outstanding               --                --
      Common stock, $.01 par value, 100,000,000 shares authorized; 24,730,968 and
          15,143,216 shares issued at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively              247,309           151,432
      Warrants outstanding                                                                7,007,013         5,096,704
      Deferred compensation                                                                (102,067)         (306,200)
      Additional paid-in capital                                                        264,332,941       105,500,656
      Accumulated deficit                                                              (112,791,306)      (60,943,806)
                                                                                      -------------     -------------
      Total shareholders' equity                                                        158,693,890        49,498,786
                                                                                      -------------     -------------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY                                            $ 169,278,082     $  62,482,825
                                                                                      =============     =============
</TABLE>


           The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
           are an integral part of these consolidated balance sheets.



                                       35
<PAGE>

                     HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>



                                                                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                   -----------------------------------------------
                                                                     2000             1999            1998
                                                                   ------------    -------------     -------------


<S>                                                                <C>              <C>              <C>
NET REVENUES
    Ticketing                                                      $ 12,278,008     $         --     $         --
    Other                                                            17,239,497       10,106,111       11,126,516
                                                                   ------------     ------------     ------------
                                                                     29,517,505       10,106,111       11,126,516
                                                                   ------------     ------------     ------------
COST OF SALES
    Ticketing                                                        10,663,913               --               --
    Other                                                             3,600,089        3,572,832        5,987,383
                                                                   ------------     ------------     ------------
                                                                     14,264,002        3,572,832        5,897,383
                                                                   ------------     ------------     ------------

    Gross profit                                                     15,253,503        6,533,279        5,139,133
                                                                   ------------     ------------     ------------

OPERATING EXPENSES:
    General and administrative                                       11,220,529        8,227,022        5,196,364
    Selling and marketing                                             9,593,871        5,074,568        2,566,702
    Salaries and benefits                                            11,810,803        5,916,024        4,151,725
    Amortization of CBS advertising - non-cash                       24,244,647        2,344,950               --
    Amortization of goodwill and intangibles                          6,775,206        3,704,011           31,428
    Depreciation and amortization                                     4,323,331        1,627,056        1,076,983
    Provision for closed stores and lease termination costs             233,763        4,551,094        1,121,028
                                                                   ------------     ------------     ------------

        Total operating expenses                                     68,202,150       31,444,725       14,144,230
                                                                   ------------     ------------     ------------

        Operating loss                                              (52,948,647)     (24,911,446)      (9,005,097)

EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF INVESTMENTS                                     1,906,132        1,188,142          877,549

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE):

    Interest, net                                                      (339,522)        (563,909)        (818,849)
    Other, net                                                          (54,434)          (3,440)          42,989
                                                                   ------------     ------------     ------------

         Loss before minority interest and deferred tax expense     (51,436,471)     (24,290,653)      (8,903,408)

MINORITY INTEREST IN EARNINGS OF SUBSIDIARIES                          (411,029)        (366,371)        (347,081)
                                                                   ------------     ------------     ------------

         Loss before deferred tax expense                           (51,847,500)     (24,657,024)      (9,250,489)

DEFERRED TAX EXPENSE                                                         --               --       (1,407,600)
                                                                   ------------     ------------     ------------

         Net loss                                                  $(51,847,500)    $(24,657,024)    $(10,658,089)
                                                                   ============     ============     ============


Basic and diluted loss per common share                            $      (2.23)    $      (2.01)    $      (1.47)
                                                                   ============     ============     ============

Weighted average common and common equivalent shares
   outstanding - Basic and diluted                                   23,270,862       12,310,195        7,456,651
                                                                   ============     ============     ============
</TABLE>


           The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
           are an integral part of these consolidated balance sheets.



                                       36
<PAGE>


                     HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                Preferred
                                                                     Common Stock             Stock, Series          Warrants
                                                               Shares           Amount        A, B, C, D & D-2      Outstanding
                                                            ------------       ---------       -------------        -----------

<S>                                                          <C>            <C>                <C>                <C>
Balance - December 31,1997                                   6,896,340      $      68,963      $   4,000,000      $     586,600

Non-cash dividend - preferred stock                             37,050                371               --                 --
Cash dividend on preferred stock Series C                         --                 --                 --                 --
Conversion of convertible debentures into
  common stock                                                 173,568              1,736               --                 --
Issuance of stock options and warrants for
  services rendered                                               --                 --                 --                 --
Employee stock bonuses                                         236,230              2,362               --                 --
Issuance of preferred stock and warrants
  in private placement                                            --                 --            2,152,261           497,583
Issuance of common stock in private
  placements                                                   453,095              4,531               --                 --
Issuance of common stock to the members
  of the Company's Board of Directors
  in a private placement                                       187,442              1,874               --                 --
Shares repurchased and retired                                 (42,850)              (429)              --                 --
Stock options and warrants exercised                           220,454              2,205               --             (249,600)
Net loss                                                          --                 --                 --                 --
                                                         -------------      -------------      -------------      -------------

Balance - December 31,1998                                   8,161,329             81,613          6,152,261            834,583

Dividends - preferred stock                                      6,675                 67               --                 --
Stock options and warrants exercised                           908,784              9,088               --             (497,583)
Issuance of common stock in private
  placements                                                   989,297              9,893               --            2,866,071
Issuance of stock options and warrants for
  services rendered                                            184,018              1,840               --            1,350,045
Conversion of Series A,B,C,D,D-2 Preferred Stock             1,580,490             15,805         (6,152,261)              --
Employee stock bonus                                             2,500                 25               --                 --
Amortization of employee stock bonuses                            --                 --                 --                 --
Issuance of stock for acquisitions                           3,317,623             33,176               --              543,588
Issuance of stock to satisfy capital
  lease obligation                                              32,000                320               --                 --
Shares repurchased and retired                                 (39,500)              (395)              --                 --
Net loss                                                          --                 --                 --                 --
                                                         -------------      -------------      -------------      -------------

Balance - December 31,1999                                  15,143,216            151,432               --            5,096,704

Issuance of common stock and common stock
  warrants pursuant to CBS agreement                         6,672,031             66,720               --            7,114,781
Warrant exercised by CBS                                     1,178,892             11,789               --           (7,114,781)
Stock options and warrants exercised                           301,980              3,020               --                 --
Issuance of common stock - acquisitions                        345,379              3,454               --                 --
Issuance of common stock - private
  placement                                                  1,157,561             11,576               --              650,080
Common stock warrants issued in connection
   with investment in Movietickets.com                            --                 --                 --            1,000,000
Issuance of common stock, stock options and warrants
  for services rendered                                          9,511                 95               --              260,229
Issuance of common stock - payment of
  note payable                                                 152,548              1,525               --                 --
Non-cash issuance of common stock - franchise
   agreement                                                   100,000              1,000               --                 --
Employee stock bonus                                             5,000                 50               --                 --
Amortization of employee stock bonuses                            --                 --                 --                 --
Shares repurchased and retired                                (335,150)            (3,352)              --                 --
Net loss                                                          --                 --                 --                 --

                                                         -------------      -------------      -------------      -------------
Balance - December 31, 2000                                 24,730,968      $     247,309      $        --        $   7,007,013
                                                         =============      =============      =============      =============


[RESTUBBED]


<CAPTION>
                                                                                Additional
                                                                  Deferred       Paid-in              Accumulated
                                                               Compensation      Capital               Deficit             Total
                                                               ------------   -------------         -------------      ------------

<S>                                                                           <C>                  <C>                <C>
Balance - December 31,1997                                          --        $  25,671,900        $ (25,223,610)     $   5,103,853

Non-cash dividend - preferred stock                                 --              169,629             (233,329)           (63,329)
Cash dividend on preferred stock Series C                           --                 --                (60,000)           (60,000)
Conversion of convertible debentures into
  common stock                                                      --              663,953                 --              665,689
Issuance of stock options and warrants for
  services rendered                                                 --               73,587                 --              73,587
Employee stock bonuses                                          (510,333)           793,863                 --              285,892
Issuance of preferred stock and warrants
  in private placement                                              --                 --                   --            2,649,844
Issuance of common stock in private
  placements                                                        --            1,895,614                 --            1,900,145
Issuance of common stock to the members
  of the Company's Board of Directors
  in a private placement                                            --              935,336                 --              937,210
Shares repurchased and retired                                      --             (102,599)                --             (103,028)
Stock options and warrants exercised                                --            1,039,056                 --              791,661
Net loss                                                            --                 --            (10,658,089)       (10,658,089)
                                                           -------------      -------------        -------------      -------------

Balance - December 31,1998                                      (510,333)        31,140,339          (36,175,028)         1,523,435

Dividends - preferred stock                                         --               79,741             (111,754)           (31,946)
Stock options and warrants exercised                                --            5,416,165                 --            4,927,670
Issuance of common stock in private
  placements                                                        --           14,201,370                 --           17,077,334
Issuance of stock options and warrants for
  services rendered                                                 --            2,298,793                 --            3,650,678
Conversion of Series A,B,C,D,D-2 Preferred Stock                    --            6,136,456                 --                 --
Employee stock bonus                                                --               46,225                 --               46,250
Amortization of employee stock bonuses                           204,133               --                   --              204,133
Issuance of stock for acquisitions                                  --           46,310,570                 --           46,887,334
Issuance of stock to satisfy capital
  lease obligation                                                  --              539,331                 --              539,651
Shares repurchased and retired                                      --             (668,334)                --             (668,729)
Net loss                                                            --                 --            (24,657,024)       (24,657,024)
                                                           -------------      -------------        -------------      -------------

Balance - December 31,1999                                      (306,200)       105,500,656          (60,943,806)        49,498,786

Issuance of common stock and common stock
  warrants pursuant to CBS agreement                                --          130,037,885                 --          137,219,386
Warrant exercised by CBS                                            --           12,571,493                 --            5,468,501
Stock options and warrants exercised                                --            7,019,392                 --            7,022,412
Issuance of common stock - acquisitions                             --            1,796,014                 --            1,799,468
Issuance of common stock - private
  placement                                                         --            6,293,053                 --            6,954,709
Common stock warrants issued in connection
   with investment in Movietickets.com                              --                 --                   --            1,000,000
Issuance of common stock, stock options and warrants
  for services rendered                                             --              168,392                 --              428,716
Issuance of common stock - payment of
  note payable                                                      --            1,926,613                 --            1,928,138
Non-cash issuance of common stock - franchise
   agreement                                                        --            1,649,000                 --            1,650,000
Employee stock bonus                                                --               29,015                 --               29,065
Amortization of employee stock bonuses                          204,133                --                   --              204,133
Shares repurchased and retired                                      --           (2,658,572)                --           (2,661,924)
Net loss                                                            --                 --           (51,847,500)        (51,847,500)

                                                           -------------      -------------        -------------      -------------
Balance - December 31, 2000                                $    (102,067)     $ 264,332,941        $(112,791,306)     $ 158,693,890
                                                           =============      =============        =============      =============


</TABLE>


           The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
           are an integral part of these consolidated balance sheets.





                                       37
<PAGE>

                     HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                                      ----------------------------------------------
                                                                                         2000             1999            1998
                                                                                      ------------     -----------     -------------
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
<S>                                                                                   <C>              <C>             <C>
Net loss                                                                              (51,847,500)     (24,657,024)    $(10,658,089)
        Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash used in
        operating activities:
          Depreciation and amortization                                                11,098,537        5,331,067        1,108,411
          Equity in earnings of Investments, net of return of invested capital            244,930          454,698          528,894
          Issuance of compensatory stock options and warrants for services rendered       457,781          322,568           73,587
          Amortization of deferred compensation costs                                     204,133          204,133          285,892
          Recognition of deferred gain                                                         --           (9,062)         (42,988)
          Loss on sale of equipment                                                       110,662               --               --
          Deferred tax expense                                                                 --               --        1,407,600
          Amortization of deferred financing costs                                         10,623          295,644          164,474
          Amortization of discount on convertible debentures                                   --               --          107,750
          Provision for bad debts                                                         504,539           82,237               --
          Provision for inventory obsolescence                                            569,946          283,950          232,383
          Provision for closed stores and lease termination costs                         233,763        4,551,094        1,121,028
          Minority interest                                                               411,029          366,371          347,081
          Return of capital from Tekno Books to minority partner                         (521,763)        (330,610)        (202,125)
          Amortization of CBS advertising - non-cash                                   24,244,647        2,344,950               --
          Changes in assets and liabilities:
            Receivables                                                                  (803,298)         283,832         (225,611)
            Prepaid expenses                                                              407,675         (286,262)          46,705
            Inventories                                                                    29,024         (382,132)       1,008,485
            Other current assets                                                         (183,607)         150,305          (10,240)
            Other assets                                                                 (106,466)         259,164         (205,350)
            Accounts payable                                                              296,968          384,269         (611,826)
            Accrued professional fees                                                     (33,332)         (17,637)         (13,162)
            Deferred revenue                                                            1,280,750           43,548         (318,472)
            Other accrued expenses                                                        373,455          717,009          567,446
                                                                                     ------------     ------------     ------------
              Net cash used in operating activities                                   (13,017,504)      (9,607,888)      (5,288,127)
                                                                                     ------------     ------------     ------------


CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
        Cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired                                 (297,295)      (7,424,929)              --
        Acquisitions of investments                                                      (567,500)              --               --
        Capital expenditures                                                           (1,705,166)        (514,319)        (965,801)
        Investment in trademarks and url's                                             (1,082,500)        (600,000)              --
                                                                                     ------------     ------------     ------------
              Net cash used in investing activities                                    (3,652,461)      (8,539,248)        (965,801)
                                                                                     ------------     ------------     ------------

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
        Net (payments on) proceeds from revolving line of credit                               --         (758,917)         223,917
        Proceeds from shareholder/officer loan                                          2,050,000          711,000        3,794,500
        Payments of shareholder/officer loan                                           (2,050,000)        (811,000)      (3,779,500)
        Net proceeds from the issuance of preferred stock and warrants                         --               --        2,649,844
        Net proceeds from issuance of common stock                                     12,257,739       17,077,334        2,837,355
        Proceeds from exercise of stock options and warrants                            7,022,412        4,927,670          791,661
        Dividends on preferred stock                                                           --          (28,097)         (60,000)
        Payments to repurchase common stock                                            (2,661,924)        (668,729)        (103,028)
        Proceeds under sale leasebacks                                                         --           56,068          691,255
        Payments under capital lease obligations                                         (512,383)        (612,182)        (949,895)
                                                                                     ------------     ------------     ------------
              Net cash provided by financing activities                                16,105,844       19,893,147        6,096,109
                                                                                     ------------     ------------     ------------


              Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents                       (564,121)       1,746,011         (157,819)

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, beginning of year                                            2,475,345          729,334          887,153
                                                                                     ------------     ------------     ------------
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, end of year                                               $  1,911,224     $  2,475,345     $    729,334
                                                                                     ============     ============     ============
SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE OF CASH RELATED ACTIVITIES:
        Interest paid                                                                $    409,095     $    374,867     $    539,687
                                                                                     ============     ============     ============
</TABLE>



         The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are
              an integral part of these consolidated statements.



                                       38
<PAGE>

                     HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     --------------------------------------

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                   ------------------------------------------

                           DECEMBER 31, 2000 AND 1999
                           --------------------------

(1) BACKGROUND:
- --------------

Hollywood Media Corp. (the "Company") F/K/A Hollywood.com, Inc., was
incorporated in the State of Florida on January 22, 1993. The Company is an
entertainment-focused media and Internet provider of widely recognized brands
and a broad collection of entertainment content data and related information in
the industry. The Company also owns an extensive ticketing network and is
engaged in the development and licensing of intellectual properties and the
licensing of books. The Company generates revenues through the sale of
advertising on its web site, the business-to-business syndication of
entertainment-related content, sale of live theater tickets, and from advances
paid by publishers and royalties received from the Company's library of book
titles.

The Company's main web sites on the World Wide Web ("web") are Hollywood.com.
and Broadway.com. Hollywood.com, was acquired in May 1999 and features movie
showtime listings, movie descriptions and reviews, digitized trailers and
photos, entertainment news, box office results, interactive games, movie
soundtracks, celebrity profiles and biographies, coverage of entertainment
awards shows and film festivals and video coverage of movie premiers. The
Company launched the Broadway.com web site on May 1, 2000. Broadway.com features
theater showtimes for live theater venues in the United States as well as in
London; the ability to purchase Broadway, off-Broadway and London theater
tickets online; theater news; interviews with stage actors and playwrights;
opening-night coverage; theater reviews and video excerpts from selected shows.
The Company generates revenues through the sale of advertising on these web
sites and the sale of live theater tickets online.

The Company's syndication business began in May 1999 with the acquisition of
CinemaSource, Inc., a supplier of movie showtimes and related content in the
United States and Canada to Internet sites and media outlets. The Company
expanded its syndication business with the acquisition of Baseline in August
1999. Baseline is a pay-per-use subscription web site geared to movie
professionals.

The Company acquired Theatre Direct NY, Inc. ("TDI") effective September 15,
2000. TDI is a ticketing wholesaler to the travel industry that provides groups
and individuals with access to theater tickets and knowledgeable service
covering shows on Broadway, off-Broadway and in London.

In December 1999, the Company closed all if its retail store operations and has
written off the assets relating to such operations (Note 9).

In January 2001, the Company closed its online movie studio store,
shopping.hollywood.com, which the Company opened in November 1998.

The intellectual properties division owns or controls the exclusive rights to
certain original characters and concepts created by best-selling authors and
media celebrities, which it licenses across all media, including books, films
and television, multimedia software, and other products. The Company acquires
the rights to its intellectual properties pursuant to agreements that grant it


                                       39
<PAGE>

exclusive rights in the intellectual property itself, as well as the right to
use the creator's name in the title of the intellectual property. The
intellectual properties division also includes a 51%-owned book licensing and
packaging operation named Tekno Books which focuses on developing and executing
book projects, typically with best-selling authors, which books are then
licensed for publication to book publishers. Tekno Books generates revenues from
new book projects in the form of non-refundable advances paid by publishers and
from royalties from its library of book titles.

The Company is a 50% partner in NetCo Partners. NetCo Partners was formed in
June 1995 as a joint venture between the Company and C.P. Group, Inc., a company
in which best-selling author Tom Clancy is a shareholder. NetCo Partners is
engaged in the development and licensing of entertainment properties.

In 2000, the Company acquired an interest in MovieTickets.com, a joint venture
with AMC Entertainment Inc. (AMC), National Amusements, Inc. (NAI) and Viacom
Inc. As of December 31, 2000, the Company, AMC and NAI each own 31.67% of
MovieTickets.com and Viacom Inc. owned 5%. The MovieTickets.com web site, which
launched in May 2000, allows users to purchase movie tickets online and retrieve
them at "will call" windows or kiosks at the theaters. The web site also
features movie content from Hollywood.com for all current and future release
movies, movie reviews and synopses, digitized movie trailers and photos and box
office results. MovieTickets.com generates revenue from the sale of advertising
and from service fees charged to users for the purchase of tickets. These
revenues are not included in the Company's revenues. The Company records its
share of the earnings or loss in MovieTickets.com as equity in earnings (loss)
of investments.

The Company has expended significant funds developing its business to business,
ticketing, Internet ad sales, intellectual property, e-commerce, and other
businesses. Operating losses since inception have contributed to an accumulated
deficit of $112,791,306 at December 31, 2000. The success of the Company's
operations in future years is dependent on its ability to generate adequate
revenues to offset operating expenses. The Company expects to incur additional
losses during the next several years while it continues to grow its businesses.
The Company's operating plans and assumptions indicate that anticipated cash
flows, when combined with other potential sources of capital, will be sufficient
to meet working capital requirements for the year 2001. There can be no
assurances that the Company will be able to generate sufficient revenues from
these activities to cover its costs and therefore, the Company may continue to
incur losses and negative cash flows from opeations. To the extent that the
Company does not generate sufficient revenues to offset expenses the Company
will require further financing to fund ongoing operations.

In the event that the Company requires additional funding and cannot secure such
additional funding, the Company's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer and the Company's Vice Chairman and President, have indicated their
intention to provide the Company, if required, with an amount not to exceed $6
million in order to enable the Company to meet its working capital requirements
during 2001; provided, however, that the commitment will terminate to the extent
the Company raises no less than $6 million from other sources and such
additional funding is not expended on acquisitions.

(2)  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:
- ------------------------------------------------

      Principles of Consolidation
      ---------------------------

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its
wholly owned subsidiaries, and its 51% and 50.5% owned subsidiaries, Tekno Books
and Fedora, Inc., respectively. All significant intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and a minority interest has
been established to reflect the outside ownership of Tekno Books and Fedora,
Inc. The Company's 50% and 31.67% ownership interests in NetCo Partners and
MovieTickets.com, respectively, are accounted for under the equity method of
accounting.

                                       40
<PAGE>

      Accounting Estimates
      --------------------

The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at
the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

Significant estimates and assumptions embodied in the accompanying financial
statements include the adequacy of reserves for accounts receivables and closed
stores and the Company's ability to realize the carrying value of goodwill,
intangible assets, investments in less than 50% owned companies and other
long-lived assets, including the remaining carrying value of deferred
advertising received from CBS in 2000 in exchange for shares of the Company's
common stock.

       Cash and Equivalents
       --------------------

The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of
three months or less to be cash and cash equivalents. Interest bearing amounts
included in cash and cash equivalents were $1,549,731 and $2,084,156, at
December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

       Receivables
       -----------

Receivables consist of amounts due from customers who have advertised on the
Company's web sites, have purchased content from the Company's syndication
businesses, have purchased live theater tickets and amounts due from publishers
relating to signed contracts, to the extent that the earnings process is
complete and amounts are realizable. Trade receivables are net of an allowance
for doubtful accounts of $567,702 and $131,029 at December 31, 2000 and 1999,
respectively.

       Inventories
       -----------

Inventories consist of theater ticket inventory sold to groups, individuals and
travel agencies, merchandise sold over the Internet and book inventory, and are
stated at the lower of cost or market value. Theater ticket inventory was added
in 2000 with the acquisition of TDI. Inventory is carried at cost. Provision has
been made to reduce excess or obsolete inventories to net realizable value.

       Property and Equipment
       ----------------------

Property and equipment are carried at cost. Depreciation is provided in amounts
sufficient to allocate the cost of depreciable assets to operations over their
estimated service lives, which range from three to five years, on a
straight-line basis. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the
terms of the respective leases or the service lives of the improvements.


                                       41
<PAGE>


       Intangible Assets and Goodwill
       ------------------------------

Purchase price allocations for all of the Company's acquisitions have been made
in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. ("APB") 16. Pursuant
to APB 16, acquired tangible assets and liabilities have been recorded at
estimated fair value. The excess of the purchase price, including liabilities
assumed, over the value assigned to net tangible assets acquired has been
allocated first to any specifically identified intangibles then to goodwill.

Intangible Assets, net consist of the following:

                                                            December 31,
                                                       2000             1999
                                                   -----------      -----------

NATO contract acquired with hollywood.com          $ 4,567,513      $ 4,567,513
Patents and trademarks                                 203,368          203,368
Web addresses                                        1,682,500          600,000
                                                   -----------      -----------
                                                     6,453,381        5,370,881
Less accumulated amortization                       (2,707,802)      (1,000,291)
                                                   -----------      -----------
                                                   $ 3,745,579      $ 4,370,590
                                                   ===========      ===========

The National Association of Theatre Owners ("NATO") contract is being amortized
on a straight-line basis over 3 years. Patents and trademarks are being
amortized on a straight-line basis over 17 years. Web addresses are amortized
over 7 years.

Goodwill , net consists of the following:

                                                          December 31,
                                                    2000                1999
                                                ------------       ------------
Hollywood.com acquisition                       $ 27,990,480       $ 27,911,309
CinemaSource acquisition                          12,670,172         12,570,172
Baseline acquisition                               8,457,133          8,451,296
BroadwayTheater.com acquisition                    1,405,617                 --
TDI acquisition                                    1,163,646                 --
MovieTickets.com investment                        1,000,000                 --
Tekno Books and Fedora                               391,211            388,783
                                                ------------       ------------
                                                  53,078,259         49,321,560
Less accumulated amortization                     (7,905,212)        (2,837,913)
                                                ------------       ------------
                                                $ 45,173,047       $ 46,483,647
                                                ============       ============

Goodwill relating to the acquisition of Tekno Books and Fedora, Inc., is being
amortized on a straight-line basis over 20 years. Goodwill relating to all other
acquisitions and investments is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 10
years.

                                       42
<PAGE>


         Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
         -------------------------------

The Company applies the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ("SFAS") No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of". Under the provisions of this
statement, the Company has evaluated its long-lived assets for financial
impairment, and will continue to evaluate them as events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be fully
recoverable.

The Company evaluates the recoverability of long-lived assets not held for sale
by measuring the carrying amount of the assets against the estimated
undiscounted future cash flows associated with them. At the time such
evaluations indicate that the future undiscounted cash flows of certain
long-lived assets are not sufficient to recover the carrying values of such
assets, the assets are adjusted to their fair values. The Company determines
fair value as the net present value of future cash flows. Based on these
evaluations, there were no adjustments to the carrying value of long-lived
assets in 2000, 1999 or 1998.

       Revenue Recognition
       -------------------

Revenue recognition policies for advertising, syndication, ticketing,
e-commerce, book packaging and licensing, and retail are set forth below.

         Advertising Revenue. Advertising revenue is derived from the sale of
advertising on the Company's web sites. Advertising revenue is recognized over
the period that the advertisement is displayed, provided that no significant
Company obligations remain and collection is reasonably assured. Company
obligations typically include guarantees of a minimum number of impressions or
times that an advertisement is viewed by users of the Company's web sites.
Revenue is recognized based on the number of impressions delivered to the
customer.


         Syndication. Syndication revenue is derived from the sale of
entertainment related content to other businesses. Revenue is recorded after the
information has been delivered and collection of the resulting receivable is
reasonably assured. Royalty income is recognized pursuant to contract terms when
the proceeds have been collected.

         Ticketing. Ticket revenue is derived from the sale of live theater
tickets for Broadway, off-Broadway and London shows to individuals, groups,
travel agencies, tour groups and educational facilities. Revenue from ticket
sales is recognized upon delivery of the tickets to the customer. For large
orders where credit is extended, revenue is recognized when the performance
takes place. The Company purchases the tickets from the theaters for resale to
its customers, accordingly revenue and costs are recorded on a gross basis in
the accompanying statements of operations.

                                       43
<PAGE>

         E-commerce. E-commerce revenue is derived from the sale of
entertainment-related merchandise over the web. E-commerce revenue is recognized
once the product has been shipped and payment is reasonably assured. The Company
purchases the merchandise for resale to its customers. Accordingly, revenue and
cost of sales are recorded on a gross basis in the accompanying statements of
operations. The e-commerce division was closed in January 2001.

         Book Packaging and Licenses. Licensing revenues in the form of
non-refundable advances and other guaranteed royalty payments are recognized
when the earnings process has been completed, which is generally upon the
achievement of milestones in the development/publishing of the property.
Non-guaranteed royalties based on sales of licensed products and on sales of
books published directly by the Company are recognized as revenues when earned
based on royalty statements or other notification of such amounts from the
publishers.

         Revenue relating to the Company's book packaging and licensing
operation is recognized when the earnings process is complete, typically when a
publisher accepts a book for publishing. Advances received from publishers are
recorded as deferred revenues until the book is accepted by the publisher.
Revenues are recorded net of agents' fees. In the book packaging and licensing
division, expenditures for co-editors and permission payments are also deferred
and recorded as prepaid expenses until the book is accepted by the publisher, at
which time such costs are expensed.

         Retail. Revenue relating to sales at the Company's retail stores is
recognized at the time of sale. All retail locations were closed in December
1999.

         Franchise fees. Franchise fee revenue was recognized in 1998 when all
material services or conditions relating to a franchise agreement had been
substantially performed or satisfied.

       Pre-Opening Expenses
       --------------------

Pre-opening expenses related to new retail store openings in 1998 were expensed
as incurred.

       Barter Transactions
       -------------------

The Company periodically enters into barter arrangements with other Internet
companies to exchange advertising on each other's web sites. Prior to January
20, 2000, the Company reported revenue and expense from internet advertising
barter transactions on a "gross" basis, and valued the transactions using an
average rate per thousand impressions earned on similar sales of advertising for
cash. In January 2000, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") of the Financial
Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") reached consensus on EITF Issue No. 99-17,
"Accounting for Advertising Barter Transactions." As permitted under EIFT 99-17
the Company adopted the consensus prospectively for transactions occurring after
January 20, 2000. EITF 99-17 allows gross reporting of advertising barter
transactions only where barter transactions can be supported by an equivalent
quantity of similar cash transactions. Total internet barter advertising in 1999
was $480,100. The Company has not determined what portion of this revenue would
have been disallowed under EITF 99-17, but management believes the impact would
not be material to 1999 revenues. Under EITF No. 99-17 the Company would not
have recognized $220,000 and $2,130,112 in barter revenue and expense in 1999
and 1998, respectively, associated with the ABC programming agreement. See b.
Retail Operations.

         a. Internet Operations. The Company recorded $956,181, $480,100, and
$0 in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, in barter revenue and expense
relating to Internet advertising.

         The Company records barter revenue and expense under the NATO contract,
which the Company acquired through its acquisition of hollywood.com. in 1999. In
connection with the NATO contract, the Company also acquired rights and
obligations under ancillary agreements with individual theaters that participate
in the NATO organization. Pursuant to these agreements, the Company hosts web
sites for each of the theaters. In addition, the Company provides ongoing web
site maintenance services for each of the theaters including providing
promotional materials, movie and theater information, advertising and editorial
content. In exchange, the theaters promote the hollyood.com web site to movie
audiences by airing movie trailers about Hollywood.com, 40 out of 52 weeks per
year, before feature films that play in most NATO-member theaters. The Company
records revenue and expense from these activities measured at the fair value of
the services exchanged. In 2000 and 1999 the Company recorded $2,981,750 and
$1,913,290, respectively, in revenue and expense under the NATO
contract.

                                       44
<PAGE>

         b. Retail Operations. In 1999 and 1998 the Company recorded the
exchange of air time given on the television monitors in its retail stores and
promotional space given on its web site for advertising air time received on
local ABC affiliate television stations at the estimated fair value of the air
time received from the American Broadcastiang Company ("ABC") affiliates. The
income and expense are recorded in equal amounts at the time when the
advertising air time is received from ABC. The Company recorded revenues and
selling and marketing expenses of $220,000 and $2,130,112 in 1999 and 1998
respectively, relating to the ABC programming agreement. This agreement was
terminated in 1999.

       Comprehensive Income
       --------------------

SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income" requires that all items
that are required to be recognized under accounting standards as components of
comprehensive income be reported in a financial statement that is displayed with
the same prominence as other financial statements. Comprehensive income is
defined as the change in equity of a business enterprise during a period from
transactions and other events and circumstances from non-owner sources. Adoption
of this statement did not impact the Company's consolidated financial
statements. For all periods presented, there were no differences between
reported net income (loss) and comprehensive income (loss).

         Segment Information
         -------------------

SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information" establishes standards for reporting of selected information about
operating segments in annual financial statements and requires reporting of
selected information about operating segments in interim financial reports
issued to shareholders. It also establishes standards for related disclosures
about products and services, geographic areas and major customers. Disclosure
regarding the Company's business segments is contained in Note 17.

       Loss Per Common Share
       ----------------------

SFAS No. 128 "Earnings Per Share" requires companies to present basic and
diluted earnings per share ("EPS"). Loss per common share is computed by
dividing net loss after deducting dividends applicable to preferred stock, by
the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding
as follows:



                                       45
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                            --------------------------------------------
                                                2000           1999             1998
                                            ------------    ------------    ------------

<S>                                         <C>             <C>             <C>
Net Loss                                    $(51,847,500)   $(24,657,024)   $(10,658,089)
Preferred Stock Dividends                             --        (111,754)       (293,329)
                                            ------------    ------------    ------------

Net Loss Available to Common Shareholders    (51,847,500)    (24,768,778)    (10,951,418)
                                            ============    ============    ============

Weighted Average Shares Outstanding           23,270,862      12,310,195       7,456,651
                                            ------------    ------------    ------------

Loss per Share, Basic and Diluted           $      (2.23)   $      (2.01)   $      (1.47)
                                            ============    ============    ============
</TABLE>

         Common shares issuable upon conversion of convertible securities and
upon exercise of outstanding options and warrants of 4,107,587, 4,041,927 and
2,204,208 were excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share in 2000,
1999 and 1998, respectively, because their impact was anti-dilutive.

         Stock-Based Compensation
         ------------------------

SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," allows either adoption
of a fair value method of accounting for stock-based compensation plans or
continuation of accounting under APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees," and related interpretations with supplemental disclosures.
The Company has chosen to account for all stock-based arrangements under which
employees receive shares of the Company's stock accounted for under APB 25 and
make the related disclosures under SFAS No. 123. Pro forma loss per share, as if
the fair value method had been adopted, is presented in Note 12. Stock options
and warrants granted to non-employees are accounted for under the fair value
method prescribed by SFAS No. 123 and related interpretations.

         Advertising Costs
         -----------------

The Company expenses the cost of advertising as incurred or when such
advertising initially takes place. As further described in Note 11, in the first
quarter of 2000, the Company issued common stock and warrants to CBS with a fair
value of approximately $137 million in exchange for approximately $105 million
of advertising on CBS properties to be received over a period of seven years.
The Company is entitled to utilize a specified portion of this advertising each
contract year. The deferred advertising is carried on the Company's balance
sheet as a deferred asset and is being amortized ratably over the contract
period; except in 2000 where the Company utilized an additional $5.2 million of
CBS advertising for the launch of Broadway.com. Advertising expense recorded
related to CBS advertising for 2000 and 1999 was $24,244,647 and $2,344,950,
respectively, and is separately reported in the accompanying consolidated
statements of operations under the caption "Amortization of CBS advertising -
non-cash." All other advertising costs are reported as selling and marketing
expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and include
non-cash advertising expense for barter transactions of $3,937,931, $2,613,390,
and $2,130,112 for 2000, 1999 and 1998; respectively.

       Post-Retirement Employment Benefits, Other Than Pensions
       --------------------------------------------------------

The Company does not currently provide post-retirement employment benefits for
its employees.

       401(K) Plan
       -----------

The Company established a 401(K) Plan (the "Plan") effective January 1, 2001.
All employees of the Company meeting certain eligibility requirements, are
eligible to participate in the Plan. The Plan provides that each participant may
contribute up to 15% of his or her pre-tax gross compensation (but not greater
than a statutorily prescribed annual limit). All amounts contributed by employee
participants in conformance with Plan requirements and earnings on such
contributions are fully vested at all times. The Company will match 50% of the
first 8% of the employee's deferral in common stock on December 31, 2001. Only
those employed on the last day of the Plan year will be eligible for a Company
match.

       Reclassifications
       -----------------

Certain reclassifications were made to prior year statements to conform with the
current year's presentation.


                                       46
<PAGE>


(3) ACQUISITIONS:
    ------------

                  (a)      CinemaSource, Inc.:

On May 18, 1999, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of
CinemaSource, Inc. ("CinemaSource"), a privately held company, pursuant to the
terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement dated March 29, 1999 for $6.5 million in
cash and 436,191 shares of the Company's common stock valued at $12.50 per
share. CinemaSource gathers movie data, including showtimes, synopses, photos
and trailers, from theaters across the country, and then licenses this data, in
a compiled manner, to both large and small media companies.

                  (b)      hollywood.com, Inc.:

On May 20, 1999, the Company acquired all of the capital stock of hollywood.com,
Inc. ("hollywood.com"), formerly called Hollywood Online Inc., from The Times
Mirror Company ("Times Mirror"). The aggregate consideration paid to Times
Mirror by the Company consisted of a one-year unsecured promissory note for
$1,928,138 which was paid in 2000 with 152,548 shares of common stock and
2,300,075 shares of common stock, which was valued as of the date of the
transaction at $12.64 per share. As part of the transaction costs the Company
issued 53,452 shares of common stock for services rendered in connection with
the acquisition valued at $19.94 per share. Hollywood.com owns and operates the
Hollywood.com web site offering viewers movie information, movie trailers, box
office charts, movie soundtracks, photos and exclusive interactive games,
celebrity interviews, local movie showtimes, and coverage of movie premieres,
film festivals and movie-related events.

                  (c)      Baseline II, Inc.:

On August 31, 1999, the Company purchased substantially all of the motion
picture-related data assets of Paul Kagan Associates, Inc., including the
PKBaseline.com web site (now called Baseline.hollywood.com), several
publications, including the Motion Picture Investor newsletter, and a consumer
oriented movie web site. The aggregate purchase price paid for the Baseline
assets consisted of 492,611 shares of common stock valued at $17.81 per share
and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 54,735 shares of common stock at an
exercise price of $18.27 per share valued at $543,588. The shares of common
stock issued in the transaction cannot be transferred by the holders for a
period of 24 months following the closing of the transaction.

The 1999 acquisitions of CinemaSource, hollywood.com and Baseline II were
accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and accordingly, the
operating results of CinemaSource, hollywood.com and Baseline have been included
in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the respective dates of
acquisition. The excess of the aggregate purchase prices over the fair value of
net assets acquired in 1999 of $49.1 million is being amortized over 10 years.

                  (d)      BroadwayTheater.com, Inc.:

On May 1, 2000, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of
BroadwayTheater.com, Inc. ("BroadwayTheater.com"), a privately held company, for
$135,000 in cash and 83,214 shares of the Company's common stock valued at
$14.00 per share and options valued at $128,752 to purchase 12,500 shares of
common stock at $9.75 per share. The seller of BroadwayTheater.com, Inc. has the
right to earn up to a maximum of 85,714 additional shares of the Company's
common stock if the business meets specified gross profit targets during the
three years following the closing of the acquisition. BroadwayTheater.com sells
live theater tickets online predominately for Broadway, off-Broadway and
London's theater performances, through the Broadway.com web site which is owned
by the Company.

                                       47
<PAGE>

                  (e)      Theatre Direct NY, Inc. (D/B/A Theatre Direct
                           International):

On September 15, 2000, the Company acquired Theatre Direct NY, Inc. ("TDI") from
Cameron Mackintosh for 66,291 shares of common stock valued at $505,719 and
assumed $750,000 in promissory notes. In addition, the Company placed 195,874
shares in escrow. These shares will be delivered to the seller if certain
conditions are satisfied at the end of the twelve month period. TDI is a
ticketing wholesaler primarily to the travel industry (including travel agencies
and tour operators) and educational institutions for live theater productions
running on Broadway, off-Broadway and in London.

The acquisitions in 2000 of BroadwayTheater.com and TDI were accounted for under
the purchase method of accounting and, accordingly, the operating results of
BroadwayTheater.com and TDI have been included in the Company's consolidated
financial statements since the respective dates of acquisition. The excess of
the aggregate purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired of
approximately $2.6 million is being amortized over 10 years.

The purchase price of CinemaSource (a), hollywood.com (b), Baseline II, Inc.
(c), BroadwayTheater.com (d) and TDI (e) was allocated to assets and liabilities
acquired as follows:

                                                   2000(d)(e)      1999(a)(b)(c)
                                                  ------------     ------------

Tangible assets                                   $    981,500     $  2,729,844
Intangible assets                                           --        4,567,513

Goodwill                                             2,754,271       48,932,777

Liabilities assumed                                 (  889,008)        (586,877)
                                                  ------------     ------------
Total purchase price                                 2,846,763       55,643,257
Less value of common stock
  and warrants issued                               (1,799,468)     (46,290,190)
Less value of note issued                             (750,000)      (1,928,138)
                                                  ------------     ------------
          Subtotal                                $    297,295     $  7,424,929
                                                  ============     ============

Paid in cash - purchase price, net of cash
  Acquired                                        $   (143,505)    $  6,534,190
Paid in cash - acquisition costs                       440,800          890,739
                                                  ------------     ------------

Total cash paid, net of cash acquired             $    297,295     $  7,424,929
                                                  ============     ============

In 2000, the Company recorded $185,008 in purchase price adjustments relating to
acquisitions in 1999 which have been included in Goodwill.

The following are unaudited pro forma combined results of operations of the
Company, hollywood.com, CinemaSource, Baseline and TDI for the years ended
December 31, 2000 and 1999, as if the acquisitions of hollywood.com,
CinemaSource, Baseline and TDI had occurred at the beginning of each period:


                                       48
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                --------------------------------
                                                     2000               1999           1998
                                                -------------      -------------   -------------
<S>                                             <C>                <C>               <C>
Net Revenues                                    $  48,019,715      $ 30,472,655      $ 13,994,091
                                                =============      ============      ============

Net Loss                                        $ (51,708,630)     $(32,144,680)     $(20,316,273)
                                                =============      ============      ============

Pro Forma Diluted Loss  Per Share               $       (2.22)     $      (2.35)     $      (1.90)
                                                =============      ============      ============

Weighted Average Shares Outstanding                23,319,536        13,742,734        10,685,528
                                                =============      ============      ============
</TABLE>

         These unaudited pro forma combined results have been prepared for
comparative purposes only and include certain adjustments, such as additional
amortization expense as a result of goodwill and certain contractual adjustments
to salaries. They do not purport to be indicative of the results of operations
which actually would have resulted had the acquired companies been under common
control prior to the date of the acquisition or which may result in the future.
The pre-acquisition results of operations of BroadwayTheater.com are not
material to the Company's consolidated results of operations and therefore have
been excluded from the pro forma combined results of operations.

         In January 2000 the Company acquired the web address Broadway.com for
a purchase price of $1.6 million, paid with $1.0 million in cash and 35,294
shares of common stock valued at $17 per share. The common stock was issued in
1999 and delivered in anticipation of the 2000 closing. The $1.6 million is
reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as an intangible asset
at December 31, 2000. Acquisition costs incurred amounted to $2,856 and were
charged to additional paid-in capital in 1999. The Broadway.com web site offers
a comprehensive database of professional theater showtimes listings, with
listings for more than 2,400 venues around the country and in London, as well as
show synopses, cast and crew credits and biographies, digitized show previews
and showtunes, a community chat area, interviews and the ability to purchase
Broadway, off-Broadway and London theater tickets online.

(4) FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:
- ----------------------------------------

The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, accounts
payable, and accrued expenses approximate fair value due to the short maturity
of the instruments. The carrying value of notes payable approximates fair value
because the interest rates approximate the market rates.

(5) RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS:
- -----------------------------------------

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 133 -
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", which
establishes standards of accounting for derivative instruments including
specific hedge accounting criteria. SFAS No. 133, as amended by SFAS No. 137 and
138, is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. The Company
will adopt SFAS No. 133 effective January 1, 2001. The Company believes that the
adoption of SFAS No. 133 will not have a material impact on its consolidated
financial statements, as the Company currently has no derivatives.

In December 1999, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued
Staff Accounting Bulletin 101, "Revenue Recognition" ("SAB 101"), which provides
guidance on the recognition, presentation, and disclosure of revenue in
financial statements filed with the SEC. SAB 101 outlines the basic criteria



                                       49
<PAGE>

that must be met to recognize revenue and provides guidance for disclosure
related to revenue recognition policies. The Company adopted SAB 101 in 1999.
The Company's revenue recognition practices conform with the guidelines
prescribed in SAB 101.

The EITF of the FASB reached a consensus on EITF Issue 00-2 "Accounting for Web
Site Development Costs." This consensus provides guidance on what types of costs
incurred to develop web site should be capitalized or expensed. The Company
adopted this consensus in 2000. Such adoption did not have a material effect on
the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.

In January 2000, the EITF reached consensus on EITF Issue No. 99-17, "Accounting
for Advertising Barter Transactions." EITF 99-17 establishes guidelines for
reporting revenue and expense from non-monetary transactions involving exchange
of advertising. The consensus stipulates that revenue and expense should be
recognized from an advertising barter transaction only if the fair value of the
advertising surrendered in the transaction is determinable based on the entity's
own historical practice of receiving cash for similar advertising sold to
parties unrelated to the party in the barter transaction. The Company adopted
EITF 99-17 prospectively for transactions occurring after January 20, 2000 (See
Note 2).

In July 2000, the EITF reached a consensus on EITF Issue No. 99-19, "Reporting
Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent." This consensus provides
guidance concerning under what circumstances a company should report revenue
based on (a) the gross amount billed to a customer because it has earned revenue
from the sale of goods or services or (b) the net amount retained (that is, the
amount billed to the customer less the amount paid to a supplier) because it has
earned a commission or fee. The Company's existing accounting policies conform
to the EITF consensus.


                                       50
<PAGE>


(6)  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET:
- ---------------------------------

Property and equipment consists of:

                                                           December 31,
                                                  -----------------------------
                                                      2000               1999
                                                  -----------       -----------

Furniture and Fixtures                            $   593,758       $   467,590
Equipment                                           2,962,002         1,942,898
Web Development                                       430,645                --
Equipment Under Capital Leases                        565,623           260,350
Leasehold Improvements                                 70,752             6,940
                                                  -----------       -----------
                                                    4,622,780         2,677,778
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization   (1,819,940)         (799,819)
                                                  -----------       -----------
                                                  $ 2,802,840       $ 1,877,959
                                                  ===========       -----------

Depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment was $1,089,569,
$1,486,458 and $1,076,983 for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

(7)  CAPITAL LEASE OBLIGATIONS:
- -------------------------------

Future minimum lease payments under capital leases together with the present
value of the net minimum lease payments as of December 31, 2000 are as follows:

Year                                                         Amount
- ----                                                       ---------
2001                                                       $ 853,134
2002                                                         641,661
2003                                                         163,157
2004                                                           1,704
                                                           ---------
Minimum lease payments                                     1,659,656
Less amount representing interest                           (310,538)
                                                           ---------
Present value of net minimum lease payments                1,349,118
Less: current portion                                       (627,597)
                                                           ---------
                                                           $ 721,521
                                                           =========

In May 1998, the Company entered into a sale and leaseback transaction for 17
kiosks. The terms of the 1998 sale-leaseback were an aggregate sales price of
$600,674, which approximated 75% of the original invoice cost of the units, a
42-month lease term, monthly payments of approximately $18,300, and a $1 buy-out
at the end of the lease term. As additional consideration for the 1998
Sale-Leaseback, the Company issued to the lessor five-year warrants to purchase
5,203 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $5.775 per share. As
security collateral for these leases, the Company issued an aggregate of 433,061
shares of its common stock which were placed in escrow (the "Escrow Shares"). In
December 1999, 32,000 shares with a fair value of $539,651 were issued in order
to satisfy the outstanding lease obligation, and the remaining escrow shares
were returned to the Company and cancelled.


                                       51
<PAGE>

(8) DEBT:
- ---------

In association with the TDI acquisition, the Company signed two promissory notes
payable to the former owner. The notes payable have a face value of $500,000 and
$250,000 and are due on March 26, 2001 (which date has been extended due to
closing related adjustments which are expected to reduce the amount of the note)
and September 26, 2001, respectively. The $500,000 note bears interest at
Citibank, N.A. prime plus 1% ( 9.5% at December 31, 2000) and the $250,000 note
is non-interest bearing.

On May 20, 1999, the Company delivered a $1,928,138 one-year unsecured
promissory note of the Company payable to Times Mirror as partial consideration
for the acquisition of hollywood.com, Inc. This note was paid on June 16, 2000
by issuing 152,548 shares of the Company's common stock valued at $12.64 per
share.

In 1999, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Company's
Vice Chairman and President extended a $1.1 million unsecured line of credit
facility to the Company. The line of credit bears interest at the JP Morgan Bank
prime rate of interest, is prepayable at any time without penalty by the
Company, and is payable on demand of the holders. This line of credit was
cancelled in connection with Viacom's exercise of warrants in the
amount of $5.5 million during March 2000. During the second quarter of 2000,
$2,050,000 was advanced under an unsecured line of credit facility to the
Company. The Company drew upon this line of credit to enable the Company to meet
its obligation to lend to a former shareholder of CinemaSource funds to pay a
portion of the shareholder's taxes resulting from the sale of CinemaSource to
the Company. The loan was repaid in full in 2000. There were no outstanding
balances under this line of credit at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.
Interest expense on this line of credit amounted to $30,176 and $2,049 for 2000
and 1999, respectively.

In August 1997, the Company issued a $650,000 4% convertible debenture to a
single institutional investor. The debenture was convertible by the holder into
shares of the Company's common stock. During 1998, the debenture holder
converted the entire $650,000 debenture plus accrued interest into a total of
173,568 shares of common stock. In conjunction with issuance of the debenture,
the investor received warrants to buy 32,499 shares of common stock at exercise
prices ranging from $6.00 to $6.53 per share. The warrants expire March 2, 2003.
The Company recorded the convertible debenture net of a discount of $215,500
attributable to the intrinsic value of the nondetachable conversion feature. The
discount was amortized as interest expense from the date of issuance through
April 1998. Interest expense related to this discount was $107,750 in 1998.

(9)  ACCRUED RESERVE FOR CLOSED STORES:
- ----------------------------------------

In 1998, the Company aggressively pursued closure of its retail kiosk locations.
Fifteen of 29 mall leases were terminated. In 1999, the Company decided to exit
its brick and mortar retail operation altogether and closed its remaining
stores. The company recorded a provisions of $ 1,121,028 and $4,551,094 in 1998
and 1999, respectively, for asset impairments, inventory write-downs, and the
estimated cost of early lease terminations. The 1999 provision also includes the
cost of reacquiring certain territorial franchise rights sold to a third party,
and other costs related to the closure of the Company's brick and mortar retail
operations. During 2000, $1,650,000 of the liability was satisfied (Note 11) by
issuing common stock and approximately $152,000 in cash was paid in lease
settlements. In 2000, the Company recorded additional charges of $233,763
related to increasing the provision for legal costs, lease termination costs and
establishing a general provision. The reserve for closed stores of $2,366,432 at
December 31, 1999 consists mainly of the liability to reacquire territorial
rights and continuing lease obligations for exited locations. The balance at
December 31, 2000 of $798,362 consists primarily of estimated liabilities
remaining on lease obligations.




                                       52
<PAGE>

(10)     OTHER ACCRUED EXPENSES:
- --------------------------------

Other Accrued Expenses consist of the following:

                                                            December 31,
                                                   -----------------------------
                                                      2000                1999
                                                   ----------         ----------

Compensation and benefits                          $  496,032         $  371,285
Insurance                                             152,978             98,396
Acquisition costs                                     190,330                 --
Licensing fees                                         91,800                 --
Interest                                               57,159             46,051
Royalties                                              39,480             31,633
Other                                               1,250,152          1,032,317
                                                   ----------         ----------
                                                   $2,277,931         $1,579,682
                                                   ==========         ==========

(11)  OFFERINGS OF SECURITIES:
- ------------------------------

In March and April 1998, the Company sold 248,053 shares of its common stock to
five accredited investors for gross proceeds of $1,037,500. In conjunction with
the sale of these shares, the Company issued five-year warrants to three
investors to purchase 55,000 shares of the Company's common stock at $4.66 per
share. Costs related to the issuance of these securities totaling $37,500 were
charged to additional paid-in capital.

On June 30, 1998, the Company entered into a private equity line of credit
agreement with two accredited investors and on January 7, 1999, this agreement
was amended to increase the number of shares that could be issued under the
equity line of credit. Pursuant to this agreement, as amended, these investors
issued irrevocable commitments to purchase 433,334 shares of common stock of the
Company over a one-year period. In conjunction with establishment of the equity
line of credit, the Company issued three-year warrants to these investors to
purchase 45,000 shares of the Company's common stock for an average price of
$2.89 per share. The exercise price of the warrants for 20,000 of the shares is
subject to reduction depending on the number of initial shares of the Company's
common stock that the investors still own six months subsequent to their initial
purchase. On June 30, 1998, these investors purchased an initial 100,000 shares
of the Company's common stock at the market price of $5.00 per share. On
November 24, 1998, the Company sold an additional 77,042 shares of common stock
to these investors for $6.49 per share. Gross proceeds of $1,000,000 from the
sale of these securities were received during 1998. Costs related to
establishment of the equity line of credit and for the issuance of the
securities pursuant to this line of credit totaling $99,855 were charged to
additional paid-in capital. In addition, the Company issued 28,000 shares of
common stock to the placement agent as part of this transaction. During 1999,
these investors purchased an additional 256,292 shares of the Company's common
stock, for net proceeds of $2,468,659.

In July 1998, six members of the Company's Board of Directors (including the
Company's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, the Company's Vice
Chairman and President, and the Chief Executive Officer of Tekno Books, the
Company's 51%-owned subsidiary) purchased an aggregate of 187,442 shares of the
Company's common stock for $5.00 per share, the then market price of the stock.
In conjunction with the private placement of these shares, the investors
received five-year warrants to purchase an aggregate of 93,721 shares of the
Company's Common stock at $5.00 per share.

                                       53
<PAGE>

In September and November 1998, the Company sold 250 shares of its 7% Series D
Convertible Preferred Stock (the "Series D Preferred Stock") to two accredited
investors. The Company realized gross proceeds of $2,500,000 from this private
placement, less expenses and placement fees of $281,917. In connection with this
transaction, the Company also issued two five-year warrants to each investor.
The two warrants entitle the investors to purchase the number of shares of
common stock equal to the aggregate purchase price of shares of Series D
Preferred Stock acquired divided by the closing price of the common stock on the
trading date immediately before the date of purchase, multiplied by 20% and 30%,
respectively, at exercise prices equal to 150% and 125%, respectively, of such
closing price, subject to certain adjustments. The value of the warrants on the
dates of issuance of $414,372, less expenses of $33,730, has been deducted from
the stated value of the Series D Preferred Stock and is reflected as warrants
outstanding. Commissions and cost of issuance have been prorated between the
Series D Preferred Stock and the warrants. The stock purchase agreement also
provides for the potential issuance of adjustment shares of the Company's common
stock to the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock under certain limited
conditions. During 1999 the holders of Series D Preferred stock converted all of
the outstanding shares into 679,859 shares of common stock.

In November 1998, the Company sold 50 shares of its 7% Series D-2 Convertible
Preferred Stock (the "Series D-2 Preferred Stock") to an accredited investor.
The Company realized gross proceeds of $500,000 from this private placement,
less expenses and placement fees of $68,239. In connection with this
transaction, the Company also issued two five-year warrants to the investor. The
warrants entitle the investor to purchase 25,000 shares of the Company's common
stock for $5.175 per share and 16,667 shares for $6.26 per share, both of which
were above market exercise prices at the time the warrants were issued. The
value of the warrants on the date of issuance of $116,941 has been deducted from
the stated value of the Series D-2 Preferred Stock and is reflected as warrants
outstanding. During 1999 the holders of Series D-2 Preferred Stock converted all
of the outstanding shares into 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock.

On February 17, 1999, the holder of the Company's Series C 4% Convertible
Preferred Stock ("Series C Preferred Stock") converted all of the outstanding
shares of Series C Preferred Stock into 500,000 shares of the Company's common
stock.

On May 18, 1999, the holders of the Company's Series A and B Variable Rate
Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series A and B Preferred Stock") converted all of
the outstanding shares of Series A and B Preferred Stock into 300,631 shares of
the Company's common stock.

On May 17, 1999, the Company issued 569,820 shares of common stock in a private
placement at a purchase price of $21.25 per share. In addition, the Company
issued to the same investors warrants to purchase an aggregate of 189,947 shares
of common stock at an exercise price of $21.25 per share. The gross proceeds of
the private placement were $12,108,675. The Company issued 42,600 shares of
common stock as a fee to the placement agent.

On May 18, 1999, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of
CinemaSource. The purchase price consisted of cash and 436,191 shares of common
stock valued at $12.50 per share.

On May 20, 1999, the Company acquired all of the capital stock of hollywood.com,
Inc. The purchase price consisted of an unsecured promissory note for $1,928,138
and 2,300,075 shares of common stock valued at $12.64 per share. As part of the
transaction costs the Company issued 53,452 shares of common stock for services
rendered in connection with the acquisition valued at $1,063,315. In addition,
the Company issued warrants to purchase 175,000 shares of common stock with a
fair value of $1,379,283 to placement agents in the transaction.


                                       54
<PAGE>

On August 31, 1999, the Company acquired substantially all of the motion
picture-related assets of Paul Kagan Associates, Inc. for 492,611 shares of
common stock valued at $17.81 per share. The Company also issued to the former
owner 163,185 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $2.5
million.

In October 1999 the Company issued 135,000 shares of stock to AOL Latin America
S.L. plus a ten-year warrant to purchase 100,000 shares of common stock at an
exercise price of $21.42 in exchange for a four-year Interactive Services
agreement pursuant to which the Company or its subsidiaries produced versions of
the Hollywood.com web site in Portuguese and Spanish to be distributed and
promoted on AOL proprietary and web services in Brazil, Mexico and Argentina.
This contract was valued at $3,374,360 in 1999 and was being amortized over the
four-year term of the agreement. Amortization expense of $140,598 is included in
the accompanying 1999 consolidated statement of operations. This asset is used
to generate advertising revenue on the Company's web sites targeted to users in
Latin America. Based on advertising revenue generated on these Latin American
web sites through December 31, 2000, the Company believes that it is unlikely
that it will recover the full carrying value of this asset over the remaining
contract term. As a result, the Company wrote off the remaining carrying value
of the asset during the fourth quarter of 2000. Amortization expense in the
accompanying 2000 consolidated statement of operations includes $3,233,762,
representing amortization recorded in the first three quarters of 2000 and the
write off of the remaining carrying value in the fourth quarter related to this
agreement.

In December 1999 the Company issued 35,294 shares of stock to Broadway
Technologies Group, Inc. to acquire with the web address Broadway.com. The stock
is valued at $600,000. This transaction closed in January 2000 at which time the
Company paid the balance of the $1.0 million purchase price in cash. The stock
was held in escrow by legal counsel in 1999 prior to closing. The Company
incurred $2,856 in acquisition costs in 1999 that were charged to additional
paid-in capital.

On January 3, 2000, the Company issued 6,672,031 shares of common stock valued
at $19.50 per share and a warrant to purchase 1,178,892 shares of common stock
valued at $7,114,781, with an exercise price of $10,937,002, as consideration
for CBS advertising, promotion and content over a seven year period and
$5,303,030 in cash. In March 2000, Viacom exercised the warrant to acquire an
additional approximate 5% equity interest in the Company. The exercise price of
these warrants was $10,937,002, consisting of $5,468,501 in cash and $5,468,501
in additional CBS promotional advertising from Viacom. The value of common stock
and warrants issued to Viacom has been recorded in the balance sheet as deferred
advertising and is being amortized over each related contract year. The Company
amortized $24.2 million and $2.3 million in Viacom non-cash advertising for 2000
and 1999, respectively. Viacom will conduct the advertising and promotion across
its full range of CBS media properties, including the CBS television network,
CBS owned and operated television stations, CBS cable networks, Infinity
Broadcasting Corporation's radio stations and outdoor billboards, CBS Internet
sites and CBS syndicated television and radio programs. To supplement the
Company's internal sales efforts, the Company will have the right to require
Viacom to sell advertisements on the Hollywood.com web site generating
advertising revenues of up to $1.5 million per year and will pay an 8%
commission on any additional advertising revenues generated by Viacom for the
Company. In September 2000, Viacom prepaid the $1.5 million in advertising
revenue for the contract period October 2000 to September 2001. The Company
issued CBS warrants to purchase 100,000 shares of stock at an exercise price of
$7.82 per share in connection with certain marketing commitments of the Company.
These warrants have been valued at $201,892. At December 31, 2000, $973,582 is
included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as deferred revenue
related to the prepayment from Viacom.

                                       55
<PAGE>

On February 8, 2000, the Company issued 100,000 shares of common stock valued at
$1,650,000 in order to reacquire territorial rights as per a franchise
agreement. The Company closed its retail operations in December 1999 and
included this amount in the accompanying December 31, 1999 consolidated
balance sheet as part of accrued reserve for closed stores.

On May 1, 2000, the Company acquired substantially all the assets of
BroadwayTheater.com for $135,000 in cash, 83,214 shares of common stock valued
at $14.00 per share and options to purchase 12,500 shares of common stock at an
exercise price of $9.75 per share. These stock options are valued at $128,752.

On June 16, 2000, the Company issued 152,548 shares of common stock valued at
approximately $12.64 per share in order to pay-off an unsecured promissory note
payable to the Times Mirror Company.

On August 22, 2000, the Company issued 358,423 shares of common stock in a
private placement at a purchase price of $8.37 per share. In addition, the
Company issued to the same investors warrants to purchase an aggregate of 60,000
shares of common stock at a price of $10 per share. These warrants have been
valued at $358,016. The Company incurred $93,977 in transaction costs and issued
7,168 shares of common stock as a fee to the placement agent. The Company also
issued adjustment warrants to these investors. The right to purchase additional
shares under the adjustment warrants will be determined at the conclusion of ten
adjustment periods in accordance with the terms of those adjustment warrants. If
the average of the five lowest volume weighted average prices of the common
stock during the final fifteen days of an adjustment period is below $9.63, the
Company will be obligated to issue additional shares to those selling
shareholders for no additional consideration. The precise number of shares of
common stock, if any, which will be issued will be determined in accordance with
a formula set forth in the adjustment warrants. The Company issued 30,760 shares
of common stock as adjustment shares to the investors in December 2000. The
adjustment shares were recorded as additional paid-in capital.

On September 15, 2000, the Company acquired TDI for 66,291 shares of common
stock valued at $505,719. In addition, the Company placed 195,874 shares of
common stock in escrow for a period of twelve months which will be delivered
to the seller if certain conditions are satisfied at the end of the twelve month
period.

During November 2000, the Company issued 733,696 shares of common stock in a
private placement to accredited investors for an aggregate consideration of
$4,250,002. The shares issued and aggregate proceeds include 125,001 shares of
the Company's common stock purchased by the Company's Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer at a purchase price of $6 per share. The Company incurred
$201,316 in transaction costs, issued 27,514 shares of common stock, and
warrants to purchase 55,000 shares of common stock valued at $292,064 as fees to
the placement agents.

During 2000 the Company issued 9,511 shares of common stock and options and
warrants valued at $428,716 for services rendered.

                                       56
<PAGE>

The Company's Board of Directors approved a plan for the repurchase of $4.0
million of the Company's common stock. Pursuant to the plan, during the twelve
months ended December 31, 2000 the Company repurchased 335,150 shares of common
stock for an aggregate consideration of $2,661,924, at an average purchase price
of $7.94 per share. In the aggregate, the Company has repurchased 417,500 shares
of common stock for an aggregate consideration of $3,433,681 at an average price
of $8.22.

In 2000, the Company issued 1,480,872 shares of common stock upon the exercise
of outstanding stock options and warrants for which the Company received
$7,022,412 in cash exercise proceeds and $5,468,501 in additional promotional
advertising from CBS.

(12)  STOCK OPTION PLANS
- ------------------------

          1993 Stock Option Plan
          ----------------------

Under the Company's 1993 Stock Option Plan (the "1993 Plan"), 3,000,000 shares
of the Company's common stock are reserved for issuance upon exercise of
options. In addition, the 1993 Plan provides that the number of shares reserved
for issuance thereunder will automatically be increased on the first day of each
fiscal quarter of the Company so that such number equals 12.5% of the Company's
outstanding shares of common stock. The 1993 Plan is designed to serve as an
incentive for retaining qualified and competent consultants and employees. The
Stock Option Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee")
administers and interprets the 1993 Plan and is authorized to grant options
thereunder to all eligible consultants, employees and officers of the Company.

The 1993 Plan provides for the granting of both "incentive stock options" (as
defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) and
nonqualified stock options. Options are granted under the 1993 Plan on such
terms and at such prices as determined by the Committee. Each option is
exercisable after the period or periods specified in the option agreement, but
no option can be exercised until six months after the date of grant, or after
the expiration of 10 years from the date of grant. Options granted under the
1993 Plan are not transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution. The 1993 Plan also authorizes the Company to make loans to
employees to enable them to exercise their options. Such loans must (i) provide
for recourse to the optionee, (ii) bear interest at a rate no less than the rate
of interest payable by the Company to its principal lender at the time the loan
is made, and (iii) be secured by the shares of common stock purchased. No such
loans were made in 2000, 1999 or 1998.

          2000 Stock Option Plan
          ----------------------

In December 2000, the Board of Directors and the Company's shareholders approved
the Company's 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2000 Plan"). The purpose of the
2000 Plan is to advance the interests of the Company by providing an additional
incentive to attract, retain and motivate highly competent persons as officers
and key employees of, and consultants to, the Company and its subsidiaries and
affiliates and to encourage stock ownership in the Company by such persons by
providing them opportunities to acquire shares of the Company's common stock, or
to receive monetary payments based on the value of such shares pursuant to the
Benefits described therein. Additionally, the 2000 Plan is intended to assist in
further aligning the interests of the Company's officers, key employees and
consultants to those of its other stockholders.


                                       57
<PAGE>

         Under the 2000 Plan, 1,000,000 shares of common stock are reserved for
issuance upon exercise of Benefits granted under the 2000 Plan. In addition, the
2000 Plan provides that the number of shares reserved for issuance thereunder
are automatically increased on the first day of each fiscal quarter of the
Company beginning on January 1, 2001, so that such number shall equal the lesser
of 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock (which number is subject to adjustment in
accordance with Section 13 thereof) or five percent (5%) of the Company's
outstanding common stock. The maximum number of shares of Common Stock with
respect to which Benefits may be granted or measured to any individual
participant under the Plan during the term of the Plan shall not exceed 750,000;
provided, however, that the maximum number of shares of Common Stock with
respect to which Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted to
an individual participant under the Plan during the term of the Plan shall not
exceed 750,000 (in each case subject to adjustments made in accordance with
Section 13 thereof). If any Benefit granted pursuant to the 2000 Plan
terminates, expires, or is canceled or surrendered, in whole or in part, shares
subject to the unexercised portion may again be issued pursuant to the 2000
Plan. The shares acquired upon exercise of Benefits granted under 2000 Plan will
be authorized and unissued shares of common stock. The Company's shareholders do
not have any preemptive rights to purchase or subscribe for the shares reserved
for issuance under the 2000 Plan.

         The 2000 Plan is administered by the Stock Option Committee, which has
the right to determine, among other things, the persons to whom options are
granted, the number of shares of common stock subject to options, the exercise
price of options and the other terms and conditions thereof. The 2000 Plan
provides for the issuance of Incentive Stock Options and Nonqualified Stock
Options. An Incentive Stock Option is an option to purchase common stock that
meets the definition of "incentive stock option" set forth in Section 422 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986. A Nonqualified Stock Option is an option to
purchase common stock that meets certain requirements in the plan but does not
meet the definition of an "incentive stock option" set forth in Section 422 of
the Code. In addition, the Benefits under the Plan may be granted in any one or
a combination of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Stock Awards, Performance
Awards and Stock Units. Upon receiving grants of Benefits, each holder of a
Benefit must enter into a benefit agreement with the Company that contains the
appropriate terms and conditions as determined by the Stock Option Committee.

         As of March 15, 2001, options to purchase 550,000 shares of common
stock were outstanding under the 2000 Plan and no options issued under the 2000
Plan had been exercised.

       Directors Stock Option Plan
       ---------------------------

The Company has established the Directors Stock Option Plan for directors, which
provides for automatic grants to each director of options to purchase shares of
the Company's common stock having a market value at the time of grant equal to
$25,000 (i) upon a person's election as a director and (ii) each year thereafter
upon such person's reelection as a director of the Company, in both instances at
an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the common stock on the date
of the grant. A total of 150,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for
issuance upon exercise of options granted under the Directors Stock Option Plan.
Options granted under the Directors Stock Option Plan become exercisable in full
six months after the date of grant and expire five years after the date of
grant. The Board of Directors, at its discretion, may cancel all options granted
under the Directors Stock Option Plan that remain unexercised on the date of
consummation of certain corporate transactions described in the Directors Stock
Option Plan.

                                       58
<PAGE>

A summary of stock option and warrant transactions for the years ended December
31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 is as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                          Stock Options                    Warrants
                                                     ----------------------     ---------------------------
                                                                  Weighted                         Weighted
                                                                  Average                           Average
                                                                  Exercise                         Exercise
                                                    Shares         Price           Shares            Price
                                                    ------         -----           ------            -----


<S>                                                   <C>         <C>              <C>             <C>
Outstanding at December 31, 1997                      904,341     $  6.34          840,242         $  7.76
Granted                                               138,780        5.55          760,148            5.05
Exercised                                             (14,954)       5.81         (205,500)           3.43
Cancelled                                             (98,849)       6.52         (120,000)          13.20
                                                    ---------                   ----------

Outstanding at December 31, 1998                      929,318        6.17        1,274,890            5.99
Granted                                             2,276,157       16.65          737,398           16.10
Exercised                                            (191,826)       6.91         (716,958)           5.67
Cancelled                                            (223,498)      11.90          (13,554)           9.68
Expired                                                    --       13.20          (30,000)          13.20
                                                    ---------                   ----------

Outstanding at December 31, 1999                    2,790,151       14.10        1,251,776           12.06
Granted                                               771,808       11.36        1,505,427            5.91
Exercised                                            (128,123)       6.06       (1,352,749)           4.94
Cancelled                                            (713,346)      15.58          (17,357)           5.31
Expired                                                    --          --               --              --
                                                    ---------                   ----------


Outstanding at December 31, 2000                    2,720,490     $ 13.70        1,387,097          $ 12.03
                                                    =========                   ==========
</TABLE>

At December 31, 2000, a total of 367,757 and 21,243 options were available for
future grant under the 1993 Plan and Directors Stock Option Plan, respectively.
At December 31, 2000 there were 1,000,000 options available for future grant
under the 2000 Plan. Additionally, at December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998 998,616,
1,162,540, 782,729 stock options and 560,227, 637,211, 1,224,890 warrants were
exercisable, respectively.

The weighted average fair value of all options and warrants granted in 2000,
1999, and 1998 was $7.76, $16.80 and $1.76 per share, respectively.

The exercise prices of some options differ from the market price of the stock on
the grant date. The following table summarizes weighted average exercise prices
and fair value of options and warrants granted whose exercise price equals,
exceeds or is less than the market price of the stock on the grant date:

                                       59
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           2000                  1999                    1998
                                                           ----                  ----                    ----
<S>                                                        <C>                  <C>                   <C>
Exercise Price Equals Market Price
    Weighted average exercise price                        $11.96               $17.28                $ 5.66
    Weighted average fair value                             10.01                17.28                  2.40

Exercise Price Exceeds Market Price
    Weighted average exercise price                         10.16                17.48                  5.26
    Weighted average fair value                              8.77                16.96                  1.44

Exercise Price is Less Than Market Price
    Weighted average exercise price                         19.10                15.62                  4.06
    Weighted average fair value                             16.24                18.18                  2.84

The following table summarizes information about stock options and warrants
outstanding at December 31, 2000:

</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                  OPTIONS AND WARRANTS OUTSTANDING                                EXERCISABLE
      ---------------------------------------------------------           ------------------------
                                        Weighted
                                         Average        Weighted                            Weighted
     Range of                           Remaining       Average                             Average
     Exercise           Number         Contractual      Exercise             Number         Exercise
      Price           Outstanding     Life (Years)      Price              Exercisable       Price
      -----           -----------     ------------      -----              -----------       -----

<S>  <C>                  <C>            <C>            <C>                <C>             <C>
     $         .01        15,764         4.49           $  .01             15,764          $   .01
      3.12 -  5.99       485,887         3.55             5.09            309,953             5.13
      6.00 -  7.99       631,497         2.23             6.80            357,604             6.60
      8.00 - 14.75     1,163,745         4.35            11.15            245,771             8.71
     14.76 - 17.75       840,273         3.63            16.94             25,604            17.12
     17.76 - 23.00       970,421         3.52            20.58            604,147            21.14
                         -------                                          -------
                       4,107,587         3.65            13.14          1,588,843            12.38
</TABLE>


Had compensation cost for the 1993 Plan and the Directors Stock Option Plan been
determined consistent with SFAS No. 123, the Company's net loss and loss per
share would have increased to the following pro forma amounts:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                               2000              1999               1998
                                                           ------------      ------------       ------------
<S>                                                      <C>                <C>               <C>
Net loss                       As Reported               $ (51,847,500)     $(24,657,024)     $(10,658,089)
                                Pro Forma                  (53,228,309)      (29,001,525)      (10,989,891)

Basic and diluted              As Reported                $      (2.23)     $      (2.01)     $       (1.47)
loss per share                  Pro Forma                        (2.29)            (2.36)             (1.51)
</TABLE>


The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of the grant using
an option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for
grants in 2000, 1999 and 1998: risk free interest rate of 6.25%, 6.65% and 4.9%,
respectively; expected lives of 2 years for two year options, 3 years for four
year options and 4 years for five and ten year options; and expected volatility
ranging from 147.7% to 173.2% in 2000, 70.7% to 129.94% in 1999 and 36.3% to
70.7% in 1998.

                                       60
<PAGE>

In 2000, 1999 and 1998, the Company recorded an expense of $428,716, $276,318
and $73,587, respectively, related to stock options granted on various dates to
non-employees of the Company.

(13)  INCOME TAXES:
- -------------------

The Company is in a loss position for both financial and tax reporting purposes.
The Company follows SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" which requires,
among other things, recognition of future tax benefits measured at enacted rates
attributable to deductible temporary differences between financial statement and
income tax bases of assets and liabilities and to tax net operating loss
carryforwards to the extent that realization of said benefits is "more likely
than not". The primary item giving rise to such deferred tax asset is a loss
carryforward of approximately $92,820,000 as a result of the operating losses
incurred for the period from inception (January 22, 1993) to December 31, 2000.
However, due to the uncertainty of the Company's ability to generate taxable
income in the future, and, to the extent taxable income is generated in the
future, the uncertainty as to the Company's ability to utilize its loss
carryforwards subject to the "ownership change" provisions of Section 382 of the
U.S. Internal Revenue Code, the Company had established a valuation allowance
for the full amount of the deferred tax asset in 1996. During 1997, based
primarily on taxable income that was expected to be generated upon consummation
of a specific planned transaction, the Company decreased the valuation
allowance by $1,407,600. The Company re-established the valuation allowance
to the full amount of the deferred tax asset in 1998, because management no
longer expected, that the transaction would be consummated.

The loss carryforwards expire as follows:

                                    2008           $      528,000
                                    2009                5,065,000
                                    2010                7,990,000
                                    2011                6,211,000
                                    2012                5,771,000
                                    2018                7,950,000
                                    2019               18,527,000
                                    2020               40,778,000
                                                   --------------
                                                   $   92,820,000
                                                   ==============

The components of the Company's deferred tax assets and
liabilities consist of the following at December 31:

                                                2000          1999

Net tax basis in excess of book basis
   for certain assets and liabilities       $ 3,100,000    $ 1,400,000
Net operating loss carryforwards             32,487,000     18,215,000
                                            -----------    -----------
                                             35,587,000     19,615,000
Valuation allowance                         (35,587,000)   (19,615,000)
                                            -----------    -----------
Net deferred tax asset/liability            $        --    $        --
                                            ===========    ===========


(14)  INVESTMENTS:
- ------------------

Investments consist of the following:

                                                       December 31,
                                            --------------------------------
                                                  2000             1999
                                            --------------     -------------
         NetCo Partners (a)                 $      699,331     $     549,975
         MovieTickets.com (b)                      105,714                --
         Beach Wrestling LLC (c)                    67,500                --
                                            --------------     -------------

                                            $      872,545     $     549,975
                                            ===============    =============


                                       61
<PAGE>

     (a)     Netco Partners:

In June 1995, the Company and C.P. Group, Inc. ("C.P. Group"), a company in
which Tom Clancy is a shareholder, entered into an agreement to form NetCo
Partners (the "NetCo Joint Venture Agreement"). NetCo Partners is engaged in the
development and licensing of Tom Clancy's NetForce.

The Company and C.P. Group are each 50% partners in NetCo Partners. C.P. Group
contributed to NetCo Partners all rights to Tom Clancy's NetForce, and the
Company contributed to NetCo Partners all rights to Tad Williams' MirrorWorld,
Arthur C. Clarke's Worlds of Alexander, Neil Gaiman's Lifers, and Anne
McCaffrey's Saraband.

Pursuant to the terms of the NetCo Partners Joint Venture Agreement, the Company
is responsible for developing, producing, manufacturing, advertising, promoting,
marketing and distributing NetCo Partners' illustrated novels and related
products and for advancing all costs incurred in connection therewith. All
amounts advanced by the Company to fund NetCo Partners' operations are treated
as capital contributions of the Company and the Company is entitled to a return
of such capital contributions before distributions of cash flow are split
equally between the Company and C.P. Group.

NetCo Partners has signed several significant licensing agreements for Tom
Clancy's NetForce. These agreements include two book licensing agreements for
North American rights to a series of adult and young adult books with the
Berkley Publishing Group, an audio book agreement with Random House Audio
Publishing, and licensing agreements with various foreign publishers for rights
to publish Tom Clancy's NetForce books in eight different languages. These
contracts typically provide for payment of non-refundable advances to NetCo
Partners upon achievement of specific milestones, and for additional royalties
based on sales of the various products at levels in excess of the levels
implicit in the non-refundable advances. NetCo Partners recognizes revenue
pursuant to these contracts when the earnings process has been completed based
on performance of all services and delivery of completed manuscript.

The Company accounts for its investment in NetCo Partners under the equity
method of accounting, recognizing 50% of NetCo Partners' income or loss as
Equity in Earnings of Investments. Since NetCo Partners is a partnership, any
income tax payable is passed through to the partners. The revenues, gross profit
and net income of NetCo Partners for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998 are presented below:

                                             Year Ended December 31,
                                ----------------------------------------------
                                   2000              1999               1998
                                ----------        ----------        ----------
        Revenues                $5,658,803        $3,028,748        $2,685,928
        Gross Profit            $4,642,968        $2,474,026        $2,052,907
        Net Income              $4,600,835        $2,376,284        $1,755,098
        Company's share
          on Net Income         $2,300,418        $1,188,142        $  877,549

During 1998, NetCo Partners and ABC modified their arrangement, which resulted
in a modification of revenues previously accrued in 1997 under the ABC
mini-series arrangement for NetForce. The mini-series arrangement originally
provided for a payment to NetCo Partners of $1.6 million should the NetForce
mini-series not air by May 1999 and a minimum guaranteed license fee if it
aired. ABC substantially completed production of the mini-series during 1998,
and the mini-series aired on ABC for four hours over two nights in February
1999. Under the new arrangement, NetCo Partners received a $400,000 rights fee
during 1998 and future profit participation in the mini-series in lieu of the
original guaranteed license fee. Accordingly, in 1998 NetCo Partners reversed
the $1.6 million fee recorded in 1997 and recognized the $400,000 rights fee.
Future revenues under the ABC mini-series arrangement will be based on profit
participation. In 2000 NetCo Partners received net royalties of $404,253 for the
home video distribution of the mini-series.

                                       62
<PAGE>

As of December 31, 2000 NetCo Partners has $1,598,998 in accounts receivable.
Management of NetCo Partners believes that the receivables will be collected in
full and no reserves have been established.

NetCo Partners' deferred revenues, consisting of advances received but not yet
recognized as income, amounted to $888,263 as of December 31, 2000.

As of December 31, 2000, the Company has received cumulative profit
distributions from NetCo Partners since its formation totaling $5,658,049, in
addition to reimbursement of substantially all amounts advanced by the Company
to fund the operations of NetCo Partners.

     (b) MovieTickets.com. Inc.

The Company entered into a joint venture agreement on February 29, 2000 with the
movie theater chains AMC Entertainment Inc. and National Amusements, Inc. to
form MovieTickets.com, Inc. ("MovieTickets.com"), in which each venture partner
initially acquired a 33.33% interest in the joint venture. In August 2000 the
joint venture entered into an agreement with Viacom Inc. to acquire a five
percent interest in the joint venture for $25 million of advertising over 5
years. The Company owned 31.67% of the MovieTickets.com, Inc. joint venture at
December 31, 2000. The Company accounts for its investment under the equity
method of accounting, recognizing 31.67% of MovieTickets.com income or loss as
equity in earnings of investments. For 2000, the Company recorded a loss of
$394,286 from its investment in MovieTickets.com. At December 31, 2000, the
Company contributed $500,000 in cash to MovieTickets.com and issued warrants to
acquire 90,573 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $17.875 per share
valued at $1,000,000. The fair value of the warrant was recorded as goodwill and
is being amortized over a period of ten years. The MovieTickets.com web site
launched in May 2000.

     (c) Beach Wrestling LLC

On November 10, 2000 an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company entered
into an agreement with Cisnernos Television Group (CTG) and Siegel Partners to
form Beach Wrestling LLC. Each partner owns one-third. Beach Wrestling LLC was
formed to develop, market and distribute wrestling events via the Internet and
Television under the "Beach Wrestling" and "Beachwrestling.com" brands. These
events will be held in exotic beach locations and resort venues worldwide. At
December 31, 2000 the Company had invested $67,500 in Beach Wrestling LLC.

(15)  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:
- -----------------------------------

       Operating Leases-
       -----------------

The Company conducts its operations in various leased facilities, under leases
that are classified as operating leases for financial statement purposes.
Certain leases provide for payment of real estate taxes, common area
maintenance, insurance, and certain other expenses. Lease terms expire at
various dates through the year 2010. Also, certain equipment used in the
Company's operations is leased under operating leases. Operating lease
commitments at December 31, 2000 are as follows:

                                       63
<PAGE>

                          Year                                   Amount
                         ------                              --------------
                          2001                               $    1,419,372
                          2002                                    1,089,870
                          2003                                      868,469
                          2004                                      875,331
                          2005                                      883,762
                          Thereafter                              2,960,541
                                                             --------------
                                   Total                     $    8,097,345
                                                             ==============

The fixed operating lease commitments detailed above assume that the Company
continues the leases through their initial lease terms. As a result of the
decision to exit the brick and mortar retail business, the Company is currently
negotiating the early termination of various operating leases with an aggregate
total commitment of approximately $2.9 million included above. The Company
expects to negotiate termination and release from these leases for $798,362,
which has been accrued at December 31, 2000 as part of the reserve for closed
stores and lease termination costs. Rent expense, including equipment rentals,
was $1,340,747, $1,405,620 and $1,804,734 during 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively, and is included in general and administrative expenses in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

       Employment Agreements-
       ----------------------

Effective July 1, 1998, the Company extended its employment agreements with each
of Mitchell Rubenstein, to serve as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer, and Laurie Silvers, to serve as Vice Chairman of the Board and
President for an additional five-year term. Mitchell Rubenstein and Laurie
Silvers are also shareholders in the Company. The terms of each of the
employment agreements will automatically be extended for successive one-year
terms unless the Company or the executive gives written notice to the other at
least 90 days prior to the then scheduled expiration date. Each of the
employment agreements provides for an annual salary currently set at $242,195
(subject to cost-of-living increases), an annual bonus of an amount determined
by the Board of Directors (but not less than $25,000), and an automobile
allowance of $650 per month. Each employment agreement generally provides that
the executive will continue to receive his or her salary until the expiration of
the terms of the employment agreements if the executive's employment is
terminated by the Company for any reason other than death, disability or cause
(as defined in the employment agreements), or for a period of 12 months after
termination of the employment agreement as a result of the executive's
disability, and that the executive's estate will receive a lump-sum payment
equal to one year's base salary plus a pro rata portion of any bonus to which
the executive is entitled upon termination of the employment agreement by reason
of the executive's death. A termination by the Company of the employment of one
of the executives will constitute a termination without cause of the other
executive for purposes of the employment agreements. Each employment agreement
also prohibits the executive from directly or indirectly competing with the
Company for one year after termination of the employment agreement for any
reason except the Company's termination of the executive's employment without
cause. If a Change of Control (as defined in the employment agreements) occurs,
the employment agreements provide for the continued employment of the executives
until the earlier of two years following the Change of Control or the then
scheduled expiration date of the term of employment. In addition, following a
Change of Control, if the executive's employment is terminated by the Company
other than for cause or by reason of the executive's death or disability, or by
the executive for certain specified reasons (such as a reduction of the
executive's compensation or diminution of the executive's duties), the executive
will receive a lump-sum cash payment equal to three times the executive's then
existing base salary and most recent annual bonus. Mitchell Rubenstein and
Laurie Silvers each received compensation for the years ended December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998 of $285,660, $270,562, and $303,365, respectively, which is
included in salaries and benefits in the accompanying consolidated statements of
operations. Compensation in 2000 and 1998 includes a portion of wages that were
deferred in the prior year and paid in 2000 and 1998.

                                       64
<PAGE>

Effective May 31, 1999, the Company entered into a four-year employment
agreement with W. Robert Shearer, the Company's Senior Vice President and
General Counsel. The agreement provides for an annual base salary currently set
at $160,000, increasing by 10% each year, and a minimum annual bonus of $25,000.
The agreement also provides for the issuance of 75,000 options to purchase
common stock of the Company upon the effective date of the agreement and the
issuance of at least 50,000 options to purchase common stock of the Company on
each one-year anniversary of the effective date. If the executive's employment
is terminated without cause at any time during the term, the Company is required
to pay to the executive an amount equal to the greater of (a) the aggregate base
salary that the executive would have received for the remaining term of the
agreement and (b) six months of executive's then current salary. The term
"cause" is defined in the agreement as (a) any act or omission of the executive
that constitutes a willful and material breach of the agreement that is uncured
at least 30 days' after notice thereof; (b) fraud, embezzlement or
misappropriation against the Company; or (c) conviction of any criminal act that
is a felony.

         Shareholder/Director Consulting Agreement-
         ------------------------------------------

The Company is obligated under a ten-year consulting agreement, which expires
November 2003, to pay Martin Greenberg, the Chief Executive Officer of Tekno
Books (who is also one of its shareholders/directors), $30,000 per year for
services. The agreement can be terminated by either the Company or the
shareholder/director beginning in January 1998 or under certain other
conditions.

The Company is also obligated to pay Greenberg a fee as the exclusive packager
of all books based on the Company's intellectual properties. This packaging fee,
which is typically equal to 25% of the revenues from the books, is paid for the
procurement and delivery of all new text required by the publisher for the
books. During 2000, the Company accrued $218,911 in packaging fees pursuant to
this contract, of which $28,824 was paid with 3,603 shares of common stock and
$190,087 remains payable at December 31, 2000.

         Litigation-
         -----------

The Company is a party to various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary
course of business, including the proceedings described below and litigation
related to four separate leases that were terminated by the Company upon the
closing of its retail business. The Company does not expect any of these legal
proceedings to have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial
condition or results of operations.

Steven B. Katinsky v. The Times Mirror Company, Hollywood.com, Inc. and
Hollywood Online Inc. filed on September 8, 2000 in Superior Court of the State
of California for the County of Los Angeles. Claim against Tribune Company
(formerly The Times Mirror Company) and the Company seeking a performance cycle
bonus allegedly owing to the plaintiff by Tribune Company in connection with the
sale of Hollywood Online Inc. from Tribune Company to the Company. The plaintiff
is seeking monetary damages in excess of $19.8 million for alleged fraud by the
defendants in connection with the sale of Hollywood Online Inc. to the Company.
The lawsuit was dismissed in December 2000 and the parties were ordered to
arbitrate the dispute. The Company is indemnified by Tribune Company for the
amount of any such performance cycle bonus payable to the plaintiff. The Company
believes that all claims by the plaintiff against the Company are without merit
and intends to defend them vigorously.

                                       65
<PAGE>

Interviews.com v. Hollywood Online, Inc. filed on August 17, 2000 in Superior
Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles. The lawsuit was
dismissed in January 2001 and the parties were given the right to arbitrate the
dispute. The parties have not commenced an arbitration proceeding. This dispute
involves a claim by Interviews.com that the Company's wholly owned subsidiary,
hollywood.com, Inc. (formerly known as Hollywood Online, Inc.), did not timely
perform its obligations with respect to the transfer of several domain names
under an Assignment Agreement dated December 17, 1997. Interviews.com is owned
and controlled by Steven Katinsky, the claimant in the matter described above.
All matters related to this claim occurred prior to the Company's acquisition of
Hollywood Online, Inc. in May 1999 and all domain names subject to the dispute
have been transferred to the claimant. The domain names transferred were not
being utilized by the Company and were not related to the Company's business.
The claimant is seeking monetary damages in excess of $5 million. The Company
believes that this claim is without merit and intends to defend it vigorously.

(16) SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF NONCASH INVESTING AND FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the Twelve Months ended December 31, 2000:

o        The Company issued 100,000 shares of common stock, valued at
         $1,650,000. This amount was accrued for at December 31, 1999 in accrued
         reserve for closed stores.

o        Warrants to acquire 90,573 shares of common stock at an exercise price
         of $17.875 valued at $1.0 million were issued in connection with the
         Company's investment in MovieTickets.com, Inc.

o        The Company issued common stock with a fair value of $137,219,386 for
         CBS non-cash advertising and promotion.

o        The Company recorded $5,468,501 in deferred advertising in connection
         with the exercise of warrants by Viacom.

o        Capital lease transactions totaled $305,273.

o        A note payable for $1,928,138 was paid by issuing 152,548 shares of
         common stock valued at approximately $12.64 per share.

o        Merchandise inventory with a fair market value of $655,500 was
         exchanged for barter trade credits in October 2000.

o        The Company issued 5,000 shares of restricted stock valued at $29,065
         as an incentive stock bonus.

o        The Company issued $345,379 shares of common stock for acquisitions
         in 2000.

For the Twelve Months ended December 31, 1999:

o        The Company recorded the conversion of $6,152,261 of Series A, B, C, D,
         D-2 Preferred Stock into 1,580,490 shares of common stock.

o        Non-cash dividends on its Series A, B, C, D, and D-2 Convertible
         Preferred Stock in the amount of $83,657 were recorded,
         $111,754 of which was paid through the issuance of 6,675 shares of
         common stock.

o        The Company issued 2,500 shares of restricted stock valued at $46,250
         as an incentive stock bonus to an officer.

o        The Company entered into a services agreement whereby warrants and
         135,000 shares of common stock valued at $3,374,360 were recorded.
         Other options issued for consulting services rendered were valued at
         $276,318.

o        Capital lease transactions totaled $150,589.

o        The Company issued 32,000 shares of stock to satisfy lease obligations
         of $539,651.

o        The Company issued 3,317,623 shares of common stock for acquisitions
         in 1999.

                                       66
<PAGE>

For the Twelve Months ended December 31, 1998:

o        The Company recorded non-cash dividends on its Series A, B, C, D and
         D-2 Convertible Preferred Stock in the amount of $233,329, of which
         $170,000 was paid through the issuance of 37,100 shares of common stock
         and $63,329 was accrued as dividends payable.

o        The Company recorded the conversion of $650,000 of convertible
         debentures, plus accrued interest of $15,689, into 173,568 shares of
         common stock.

o        The Company issued 236,230 shares of restricted common stock valued at
         $796,225 at the time of issuance to officers and employees of the
         Company as an incentive stock bonus, including 100,000 shares that vest
         evenly over 36 months granted to each of Mitchell Rubenstein, Chairman
         and Chief Executive Officer, and Laurie S. Silvers, Vice Chairman and
         President.

o        Capital lease transactions totaled $309,829.

(17)  SEGMENT REPORTING:
- ------------------------

The Company has six reportable segments: Internet ad sales, business to business
(b2b), ticketing, e-commerce, retail and intellectual properties. The Internet
ad sales segment sells advertising on the Hollywood.com, Broadway.com and
Hollywood.com International web sites. The business to business segment (b2b)
licenses entertainment content and data and includes the divisions CinemaSource
(which licenses movie showtimes and other movie content), EventSource (which
licenses local event data), TheaterSource (which licenses live theater showtimes
and content) and ConcertSource (which licenses local listings of concerts and
music related events) to Internet, media and wireless companies. The ticketing
segment sells tickets to live theater events for Broadway, off-Broadway and
London on the Internet and to domestic and international travel professionals
including travel agencies and tour operators, educational institutions and
traveling consumers. The e-commerce segment, closed in January 2001, sold
entertainment-related merchandise over the Internet. The retail segment operated
retail studio stores that sold entertainment-related merchandise and was closed
in December 1999. The intellectual properties segment owns or controls the
exclusive rights to certain intellectual properties created by best-selling
authors and media celebrities, which it licenses across all media, including
books.

The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the
summary of significant accounting policies. The Company evaluates performance
based on a comparison of actual profit or loss from operations before income
taxes, depreciation, interest, and nonrecurring gains and losses to budgeted
amounts.

The Company does not have intersegment sales or transfers. The following table
illustrates the financial information regarding the Company's reportable
segments.


                                       67
<PAGE>


                                          For the Year Ended December 31,
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                       2000            1999            1998
                                   ------------    ------------    ------------
Net Revenues:
Internet Ad Sales                  $  8,777,397    $  3,950,931    $         --
Business to Business (b2b)            5,442,309       1,765,732              --
Ticketing                            12,278,008              --              --
E-Commerce                              987,181         924,098              --
Retail                                   34,519       1,576,482       8,789,497
Intellectual Properties               1,998,091       1,888,868       2,337,019
                                   ------------    ------------    ------------

                                   $ 29,517,505    $ 10,106,111    $ 11,126,516
                                   ============    ============    ============

Gross Profit:
Internet Ad Sales                  $  7,985,627    $  3,514,991    $         --
Business to Business (b2b)            5,171,503       1,643,236              --
Ticketing                             1,614,095              --              --
E-Commerce                             (158,826)        246,589              --
Retail                                 (231,172)         65,950       3,993,375
Intellectual Properties                 872,276       1,062,513       1,145,758
                                   ------------    ------------    ------------

                                   $ 15,253,503    $  6,533,279    $  5,139,133
                                   ============    ============    ============

Operating Income (Loss):
Internet Ad Sales (a)              $(39,183,183)   $ (7,095,248)   $         --
Business to Business                    189,555         104,257              --
Ticketing                               186,833              --              --
E-Commerce (b)                       (2,521,911)     (2,313,526)             --
Retail (c)                             (512,160)     (7,628,166)     (6,302,280)
Intellectual Properties                 480,105         460,761         702,104
Other (Corporate)                   (11,587,886)     (8,439,524)     (3,404,921)
                                   ------------    ------------    ------------
                                   $(52,948,647)   $(24,911,446)   $ (9,005,097)
                                   ============    ============    ============


                                       68
<PAGE>

                                    2000             1999            1998
                                -------------    -------------    -------------
Capital Expenditures:
Internet Ad Sales               $   1,210,112    $     415,292    $          --
Business to Business (b2b)            326,608           56,540               --
Ticketing                              23,863               --               --
E-Commerce                             13,347           42,487               --
Retail                                     --               --          935,811
Intellectual Properties                 5,188               --           29,990
Other                                 126,048               --               --
                                -------------    -------------    -------------
                                $   1,705,166    $     514,319    $     965,801
                                =============    =============    =============

Depreciation and
Amortization Expense:
Internet Ad Sales               $   5,731,996    $   1,384,522    $          --
Business to Business (b2b)            127,615           29,804               --
Ticketing                              15,581               --               --
E-Commerce                             17,483           12,478               --
Retail                                     --          935,034          902,753
Intellectual Properties                 6,930            5,080            4,903
Other                               5,198,932        2,964,149          200,755
                                -------------    -------------    -------------
                                $  11,098,537    $   5,331,067    $   1,108,411
                                =============    =============    =============


                                                 December 31,
                                ------------------------------------------------
                                    2000             1999            1998
                                -------------    -------------    -------------
Segment Assets:
Internet Ad Sales (d)           $ 117,375,127    $   6,061,188    $          --
Business to Business (b2b)          1,368,136          784,321               --
Ticketing                           1,762,557               --               --
E-Commerce                             45,828        1,146,905               --
Retail                                 17,504          404,086        5,334,664
Intellectual Properties               482,861          821,856        1,077,125
Other                              48,226,069       53,264,469        2,158,032
                                -------------    -------------    -------------

                                $ 169,278,082    $  62,482,825    $   8,569,821
                                =============    =============    =============

(a)      Includes $24,244,647 and $2,344,950 in amortization of non-cash CBS
         advertising for the twelve months ended December 31, 2000 and 1999,
         respectively.

(b)      The e-commerce segment was closed in January 2001.

(c)      The retail segment was closed on December 31, 1999.

(d)      Includes $110,845,733 in deferred CBS advertising.

                                       69
<PAGE>

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
         ------------------------------------------------------------
         and Financial Disclosure.
         -------------------------

         None.


                                       70
<PAGE>


                                    PART III


Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers.
         ---------------------------------
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Directors and Executive Officers

         The directors and executive officers of the Company are as follows:

                      Name                                 Age                   Position
                      ----                                 ---                   --------

<S>                                                         <C>      <C>
Mitchell Rubenstein (2)(3)..............................    47       Chairman  of  the  Board  and  Chief  Executive
                                                                     Officer

Laurie S. Silvers (3)...................................    49       Vice  Chairman  of  the  Board,  President  and
                                                                     Secretary

W. Robert Shearer ......................................    31       Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Nicholas G. Hall.........................................   46       Chief Operating Officer

Dr. Martin H. Greenberg (3).............................    59       Director

Harry T. Hoffman (1)(2)(4)..............................    73       Director

Russell I. Pillar (2)...................................    35       Director

Jules L. Plangere, Jr. (1)(4)...........................    79       Director

Mitchell Semel .........................................    41       Director

Deborah J. Simon (1)....................................    44       Director

David D. Williams ......................................    53       Director
</TABLE>

(1)      Member of the Audit Committee.
(2)      Member of the Compensation Committee.
(3)      Member of the Nominating Committee.
(4)      Member of the Stock Option Committee.

         Mitchell Rubenstein is a founder of the Company and has served as its
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since its inception in January
1993. Mr. Rubenstein was a founder of the Sci-Fi Channel, a 24-hour national
cable television network devoted to science fiction, fantasy and horror
programming that was acquired by USA Network in March 1992. Mr. Rubenstein
served as President of the Sci-Fi Channel from January 1989 to March 1992 and
served as Co-Vice Chairman of the Sci-Fi Channel from March 1992 to March 1994.
Prior to founding the Sci-Fi Channel, Mr. Rubenstein practiced law for 10 years,
including as a partner with Rubenstein & Silvers, a law firm that specialized in
entertainment, cable television and broadcasting law, from 1981 to 1989. Mr.
Rubenstein also co-owned and served as an executive officer of several cable
television systems (including Flagship Cable Partners, who owned a cable


                                       71
<PAGE>

television system serving Boynton Beach and portions of Palm Beach County,
Florida) from 1983 to 1989. Mr. Rubenstein received a J.D. degree from the
University of Virginia School of Law in 1977 and a Masters in Tax Law from New
York University School of Law in 1979. He currently serves on the NYU Tax Law
Advisory Board and is a member of the Founders Society, New York University, as
well as a member of the University of Virginia School of Law Business Advisory
Council. Together with Ms. Silvers, Mr. Rubenstein was named Co-Business Person
of the Year, City of Boca Raton, Florida in 1992. Mr. Rubenstein is married to
Laurie S. Silvers.

         Laurie S. Silvers is a founder of the Company and has served as its
Vice Chairman, President and Secretary since its inception in January 1993. Ms.
Silvers was a founder of the Sci-Fi Channel, of which she served as Chief
Executive Officer from January 1989 to March 1992 and Co-Vice Chairman from
March 1992 to March 1994. Prior to founding the Sci-Fi Channel, Ms. Silvers
practiced law for 10 years, including as a partner with Rubenstein & Silvers, a
law firm that specialized in entertainment, cable television and broadcasting
law, from 1981 to 1989. Ms. Silvers also co-owned and served as an executive
officer of several cable television systems (including Flagship Cable Partners,
which owned a cable television system serving Boynton Beach and portions of Palm
Beach County, Florida) from 1983 to 1989 and co-owned a television station from
1990 to 1991. Ms. Silvers received a J.D. degree from University of Miami School
of Law in 1977. Ms. Silvers serves on the University of Miami International
Advisory Board and the University of Miami School of Law Visiting Committee. Ms.
Silvers served on the Board of Directors of the Pine Crest Preparatory School,
Inc. from 1993 to 1999. She has been a member of the Pine Crest Preparatory
School, Inc. Board of Advisors (Boca Raton Campus) since 1987, and served as its
Chairman from 1995-1997. Ms. Silvers has served as a member of the executive
advisory board of the School of Business of Florida Atlantic University, and has
been a member of the Economic Council of Palm Beach since 1995. Together with
Mr. Rubenstein, Ms. Silvers was named Co-Business Person of the Year, City of
Boca Raton, Florida in 1992 and has been a keynote speaker at various business
symposia, including one held at Harvard Business School. Ms. Silvers is married
to Mitchell Rubenstein.

         W. Robert Shearer joined the Company as Senior Vice President and
General Counsel in June 1999. From 1994 to May 1999, Mr. Shearer practiced law
with Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP with an emphasis on mergers and acquisitions and
securities law. Mr. Shearer received a Bachelor of Business Administration
degree from the University of Texas in 1991 with high honors and a J.D. degree
from the University of Houston Law Center in 1994, magna cum laude. Mr. Shearer
served as the Editor in Chief of the University of Houston Law Review during
1993 and 1994.

         Nicholas G. Hall joined the Company in August 2000, and is responsible
for overseeing and coordinating the activities and strategic growth of the
Company and its businesses. Mr. Hall presently serves as the Company's Chief
Operating Officer. With over 25 years of experience in financial and operational
management, Mr. Hall was formerly Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
The Hair Club For Men from 1997 to 2000, where he was instrumental in the
company achieving its goal of profitability. Prior to this, from 1994 to 1997
Mr. Hall was Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Allders International
USA, Inc., the U.S. division of the second largest duty-free retailer in the
world. Mr. Hall is a graduate of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and
Administrators in London, England.



                                       72
<PAGE>

         Dr. Martin H. Greenberg has served as a director of the Company since
July 1993, and as a consultant to the Company since February 1993. Since
December 1994, Dr. Greenberg has served as Chief Executive Officer of Tekno
Books, 51% of which is owned by the Company and 49% of which is owned by Dr.
Greenberg. Dr. Greenberg was President and a principal shareholder of Tomorrow,
Inc., a company engaged in book licensing and packaging, from 1990 until its
acquisition by the Company in 1994. Dr. Greenberg is also co-publisher of
Mystery Scene Magazine, a mystery genre trade journal of which the Company owns
a majority interest. Dr. Greenberg is widely regarded as the leading anthologist
in trade publishing, and has served as editor or author of more than 700 books.
Dr. Greenberg also is the 1995 recipient of the Ellery Queen Award, presented by
the Mystery Writers of America for Lifetime Achievement. Dr. Greenberg is a
former Director of Graduate Studies at the University of Wisconsin - Green Bay.

         Harry T. Hoffman has served as a director of the Company since July
1993. From 1979 to 1991, Mr. Hoffman served as President and Chief Executive
Officer of Waldenbooks, Inc., a leading national retailer of books, magazines
and related items. From 1968 to 1978, he served as President and Chief Executive
Officer of Ingram Book Company, a national book wholesaler.

         Russell I. Pillar has served as a director of the Company since
September 2000. Mr. Pillar has served as President and Chief Executive Officer
of Viacom Interactive Ventures and its predecessor company CBS Internet Group,
managing the emerging technology investments and businesses of Viacom Inc.,
since the Group's formation in January 2000. Mr. Pillar also has served as
Managing Partner of Critical Mass Ventures LLC, an Internet-focused technology
incubator and venture capital firm, since October 1991. From November 1998 to
January 2000, Mr. Pillar served as President, Chief Executive Officer, and a
Director of Richard Branson's Virgin Entertainment Group, Inc., a diversified
international entertainment content retailer. From September 1997 to August
1998, Mr. Pillar served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Prodigy
Internet, an Internet service provider, and served as a member of Prodigy's
board of directors, including serving as its Vice Chairman, from October 1996 to
February 2000. From December 1993 to September 1996, Mr. Pillar served as
President, Chief Executive Officer, and a Director of Precision Systems, Inc., a
publicly-traded international telecommunications software provider. In addition
to his service on a number of private boards including iWon, Inc. and
Playboy.com, Inc., Mr. Pillar serves as a director of MarketWatch.com, Inc. and
Sportsline.com, Inc. Mr. Pillar graduated Phi Beta Kappa, cum laude with an A.B.
in East Asian Studies from Brown University.

         Jules L. Plangere, Jr. has served as a director of the Company since
July 1993. Mr. Plangere is the former Chairman of the Board of New Jersey Press,
Inc. and its two subsidiary companies, Asbury Park Press and Press Broadcasting
Co. Mr. Plangere held various positions with Asbury Park Press in his 50-year
career, including Production Manager from 1954 to 1974, President and General
Manager from 1974 to 1977, and Publisher and Chief Executive Officer from 1977
to 1991. In addition, Mr. Plangere is a former member of the Board of Directors
of the New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce, a former member of the Board of
Directors of New Jersey Bell Telephone Co., the former Chairman of the Board of
Trustees of Monmouth University and a present Life Trustee, and the former
President of the New Jersey Press Association.

         Mitchell Semel has served as a director of the Company since December
1999. Mr. Semel has served as Senior Vice President, Programming, East Coast for
CBS Entertainment since April 1996, where he has been involved in the production
of the Late Show with David Letterman, the Late Late Show with Tom Snyder and
the Late Late Show with Craig Kilborn. From 1994 to 1996 he worked with NBC
Productions, Inc. as a consulting producer and as an executive producer for
various shows. Mr. Semel was Senior Vice President, Programming, Comedy Central,
New York from 1992 to 1994, and from 1991 to 1992, he was Vice President,
Programming, Public Broadcasting Service, Washington, D.C.

                                       73
<PAGE>

         Deborah J. Simon has served as a director of the Company since November
1995. Ms. Simon has held the position of Senior Vice President of Simon Property
Group, an Indianapolis-based real estate development and management firm that is
listed on the New York Stock Exchange, since 1991. Prior to that, Ms. Simon
served as Vice President -- Western Region Leasing of the Simon Property Group.
She also has been an independent producer, with several television credits to
her name. She currently serves on the Board of Directors of the Indianapolis
Children's Museum, Indiana Repertory Theater, Indianapolis Museum of Art and
Chairperson of Simon Youth Foundation and Mercerburg Academy Board of Regents.

         David D. Williams has served as a director of the Company since
September 2000. Mr. Williams was named President and Chief Executive Officer of
Tribune Media Services in 1991. Tribune Media Services creates and markets a
wide range of editorial and advertising products and services for print, online
and on-screen distribution. Mr. Williams joined the Chicago Tribune Company in
1969, serving in various advertising and marketing capacities. In 1983, he was
appointed Director of classified advertising. Mr. Williams serves on the board
of directors for Knight Ridder/Tribune and the Newspaper Features Council. He
also is a marketing chairman for the Chicagoland United Way/Crusade of Mercy and
is on the board of advisors for Northwestern University's Masters and
Communications department. Mr. Williams holds a bachelor's degree in advertising
and marketing from Michigan State University.

         See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" for a description
of the rights of each of Tribune Company, Viacom Inc. and Tekno Simon LLC to
nominate individuals to serve as directors of the Company.

         The Company's officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors
and serve at the discretion of the Board, subject to the terms and conditions of
such officers' employment agreements with the Company, if any. The Company's
directors hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders and until
their successors have been duly elected and qualified.

Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

         Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires the
Company's directors and executive officers, and persons who own more than 10% of
the Company's outstanding common stock, to file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the "SEC") initial reports of ownership and reports of changes in
ownership of common stock. Such persons are required by SEC regulation to
furnish the Company with copies of all such reports they file.

         To the Company's knowledge, based solely on a review of the copies of
such reports furnished to the Company or written representations that no other
reports were required, all Section 16(a) filing requirements applicable to its
executive officers, directors and greater than 10% beneficial owners for the
year ended December 31, 2000 have been complied with, except that each of
Mitchell Rubenstein, Laurie Silvers and W. Robert Shearer filed certain
information on a Form 5 that should have been filed earlier on a Form 4.



                                       74
<PAGE>


Item 11. Executive Compensation.
         ------------------------

         Summary Compensation Table. The following table sets forth the
aggregate compensation paid in 2000, 1999 and 1998 to each of the executive
officers of the Company.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                   Long-Term
                                                                                                  Compensation
                                                      Annual Compensation                           Awards
                                         -------------------------------------------        ---------------------------

                                                                             Other           Restricted       Sharesg
                                                                             Annual           Stock         Underlying
           Name and                            Salary        Bonus         Compensation       Awards         Options
     Principal Position             Year        ($)           ($)            ($)                ($)             (#)
     -------------------           ----         ----          ----           ----              ----             ----
<S>                                 <C>        <C>           <C>                <C>           <C>            <C>
Mitchell Rubenstein,  (7)           2000       260,670       25,000             7,800 (1)       --               --
Chief Executive Officer             1999       237,763       25,000             7,800 (1)       --           450,000 (4)
                                    1998       235,793       67,572             7,800 (1)  306,200 (2)           --

Laurie S. Silvers,   (7)            2000       260,670       25,000             7,800 (1)       --               --
President                           1999       237,763       25,000             7,800 (1)       --           450,000 (4)
                                    1998       235,793       67,572             7,800 (1)  306,200 (2)        37,500 (4)

W. Robert Shearer                   2000       126,293       25,000                --                         50,000 (4)
Senior Vice President and           1999        58,454           --                --       46,250 (3)        87,500 (4)
General Counsel (5)

Nicholas G. Hall                    2000        42,577           --                --           --           25,000(4)
Chief Operating Officer(6)
</TABLE>

(1)      Represents a car allowance paid to the named executive officer.

(2)      Represents the value on the issuance date of 100,000 shares of
         restricted common stock granted to the named executive officers, which
         vest equally over 36 months beginning July 1, 1998. The value of the
         100,000 shares of restricted common stock as of December 31, 1998 was
         $1,400,000.

(3)      Represents the value on the issuance date of 2,500 shares of common
         stock granted to Mr. Shearer. The value of the 2,500 shares of common
         stock as of December 31, 1999 was $47,500.

(4)      Represents options granted under the Company's 1993 Stock Option Plan
         (the "1993 Plan").

(5)      Mr. Shearer joined the Company on May 31, 1999.

(6)      Mr. Hall joined the Company on August 23, 2000.

(7)      Salaries in 2000 include salaries deferred in 1999 but paid in 2000.

         Employment Agreements. Effective July 1, 1993, the Company entered into
five-year employment agreements with each of Mitchell Rubenstein, the Company's
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Laurie S. Silvers, the Company's Vice
Chairman and President. Effective July 1, 1998, the Company extended each of
these employment agreements for an additional five-year term. The terms of each


                                       75
<PAGE>

of the employment agreements are automatically extended for successive one-year
terms unless the Company or the named executive officer gives written notice to
the other at least 90 days prior to the then-scheduled expiration date. Each of
the employment agreements provides for an annual salary currently set at
$237,000 (subject to automatic cost-of-living increases), an annual bonus in an
amount determined by the Board of Directors (but not less than $25,000) and an
automobile allowance of $650 per month. During 1997 each of Laurie S. Silvers
and Mitchell Rubenstein elected to waive a portion of their base salary.

         Each employment agreement provides that each of Laurie S. Silvers and
Mitchell Rubenstein will continue to receive his or her salary until the
expiration of the term of the employment agreements if either of his or her
employment is terminated by the Company for any reason other than death,
disability or Cause (as defined in the employment agreements), or for a period
of 12 months after termination of the employment agreement as a result of the
disability of either Laurie S. Silvers or Mitchell Rubenstein, and that each of
their respective estate will receive a lump sum payment equal to one year's base
salary plus a pro rata portion of any bonus to which either Laurie S. Silvers or
Mitchell Rubenstein is entitled upon termination of the employment agreement by
reason of either of his or her death.

         The term "Cause" is defined in the employment agreements to mean (a)
the named executive officer's act or omission which constitutes a willful and
material breach of such named executive officer's employment agreement which is
not cured within 30 days after such named executive officer's receipt of notice
of such breach, (b) a named executive officer's fraud, embezzlement or
misappropriation of the Company's assets or property, or (c) a named executive
officer's conviction for a criminal act that is a felony. A termination by the
Company of one of the named executive officer's employment without Cause will
constitute a termination without Cause of the other named executive officer for
purposes of the employment agreements. Each employment agreement also prohibits
the named executive officer from directly or indirectly competing with the
Company for one year after termination of the employment agreement for any
reason except the Company's termination of the named executive officer's
employment without Cause.

         If a Change of Control (as defined in the employment agreements)
occurs, the employment agreements provide for the continued employment of the
named executive officers until the earlier of two years following the Change of
Control or the then-scheduled expiration date of the term of employment. The
term "Change of Control", as used in the employment agreements, is defined to
mean (a) any person's or group's acquisition of 20% or more of the combined
voting power of the Company's outstanding securities, or (b) in the event of any
cash tender or exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of
assets or contested election, the persons who were directors of the Company
prior to such transaction ceasing to constitute a majority of the Board of
Directors following the transaction. In addition, following a Change in Control,
if the named executive officer's employment is terminated by the Company other
than for Cause or by reason of the named executive officer's death or
disability, or by the named executive officer for certain specified reasons
(such as a reduction of the named executive officer's compensation or diminution
of the named executive officer's duties), the named executive officer will
receive a lump sum cash payment equal to three times the named executive
officer's then-existing base salary and most recent annual bonus. Mitchell
Rubenstein and Laurie S. Silvers agreed that the acquisition by CBS Corporation
of a 30% equity interest in the Company did not constitute a change of control
under the employment agreements.

         Effective May 31, 1999, the Company entered into a four-year employment
agreement with W. Robert Shearer, the Company's Senior Vice President and
General Counsel. The agreement provides for an annual base salary currently set
at $160,000, increasing by 10% each year, and a minimum annual bonus of $25,000.
The agreement also provides for the issuance of 75,000 options to purchase
common stock of the Company upon the effective date of the agreement and the
issuance of at least 50,000 options to purchase common stock of the Company on
each one-year anniversary of the effective date. If the executive's employment
is terminated without cause at any time during the term, the Company is required
to pay to the executive an amount equal to the greater of (a) the aggregate base
salary that the executive would have received for the remaining term of the
agreement and (b) six months of executive's then current salary. The term
"cause" is defined in the agreement as (a) any act or omission of the executive
that constitutes a willful and material breach of the agreement that is uncured
at least 30 days' after notice thereof; (b) fraud, embezzlement or
misappropriation against the Company; or (c) conviction of any criminal act that
is a felony.

         Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year. The following table sets forth
certain information with respect to grants of stock options under the Company's
1993 Stock Option Plan to each of the named executive officers of the Company.
In addition, there are shown hypothetical gains or "option spreads" that could
be realized for the respective options, based on arbitrarily assumed rates of
annual compound stock price appreciation of 0 percent, 5 percent, and 10 percent
from the date the options were granted over the full option terms.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     OPTION GRANTS IN 2000

                                                                        Individual Grants
                                             -----------------------------------------------------------------------

                                              Percent
                                  Number of   Of Total                                      Potential Realizable Value at Assumed
                                   shares     Options      Exercise    Market              Annual Rates of Stock Price Appreciation
                                 Underlying   Granted to     or        Price                       For Option Terms (1)
                                   Options    Employees    Base Price on Date   Expiration   ------------------------------
                                  Granted     In 2000      Per Share  of Grant    Date         0%         5%         10%
                                  --------    --------     --------      -----    ----       -----        ---        ----
<S>                              <C>         <C>           <C>       <C>        <C>   <C>     <C>      <C>        <C>
   W. Robert Shearer
     Incentive Stock Options     50,000      6.49%         $9.25     $9.25      06/02/10      $0       $205,644   $652,070

   Nicholas G. Hall
     Incentive Stock Options     25,000      3.25%        $7.813    $7.813      08/24/05      $0        $66,429   $150,705
</TABLE>

(1)      These amounts represent certain assumed rates of appreciation only.
         There can be no assurances that the amounts reflected will be achieved.


                                       76
<PAGE>


         Stock Option Exercises During 2000 and Stock Options Held at End of
2000. The following table indicates the total number of shares acquired on
exercise of stock options during 2000 and the value realized therefrom, as well
as the total number and value of exercisable and unexercisable stock options
held by each executive officer as of December 31, 2000:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                              Number of                     Number of Securities                Value of Unexercised
                               Shares                      Underlying Unexercised               In-the-Money Options
                              Acquired                    Options at Fiscal Year End              at Fiscal Year End
                                on          Value        --------------------------              ------------------
     Name                    Exercise      Realized    Exercisable      Unexercisable       Exercisable     Unexercisable
    ------                  ---------      --------   -----------      -------------       -----------     -------------
<S>                                         <C>         <C>               <C>
Mitchell Rubenstein               -         $    -      447,500           187,500               -                  -
Laurie S. Silvers                 -         $    -      447,500           187,500               -                  -
W. Robert Shearer                 -         $    -       34,375           103,125               -                  -
Nicholas G. Hall                  -         $    -         -               25,000               -                  -
</TABLE>

         Stock Option Plans.

         The 1993 Plan. Under the 1993 Plan, 3,000,000 shares of common stock
are reserved for issuance upon exercise of options. In addition, the 1993 Plan
provides that the number of shares reserved for issuance thereunder will
automatically be increased on the first day of each fiscal quarter of the
Company so that such number equals at least 12.5% of the Company's outstanding
Common Stock. The 1993 Plan is designed to serve as an incentive for retaining
qualified and competent consultants and employees. The Stock Option Committee of
the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") administers and interprets
the 1993 Plan and is authorized to grant options thereunder to all eligible
consultants and employees, including officers of the Company.

         The 1993 Plan provides for the granting of both "incentive stock
options" (as defined in Section 422 of the Code) and nonqualified stock options.
Options are granted under the 1993 Plan on such terms and at such prices as
determined by the Committee. Each option is exercisable after the period or
periods specified in the option agreement, but no option can be exercised until
six months after the date of grant or more than 10 years from the date of grant.
Options granted under the 1993 Plan are not transferable other than by will or
by the laws of descent and distribution. The 1993 Plan also authorizes the
Company to make loans to optionees to enable them to exercise their options.
Such loans must provide for recourse to the optionee, be interest-bearing and be
secured by the shares of common stock purchased.

         As of March 15, 2001, options to purchase 2,619,566 shares of common
stock were outstanding under the 1993 Plan and options to purchase 213,023
shares of common stock issued under the 1993 Plan had been exercised.

         2000 Stock Incentive Plan. In December 2000, the Board of Directors and
the Company's shareholders approved the Company's 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (the
"2000 Plan"). The purpose of the 2000 Plan is to advance the interests of the
Company by providing an additional incentive to attract, retain and motivate
highly competent persons as officers and key employees of, and consultants to,
the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates and to encourage stock ownership
in the Company by such persons by providing them opportunities to acquire shares
of the Company's common stock, or to receive monetary payments based on the
value of such shares pursuant to the Benefits described therein. Additionally,
the 2000 Plan is intended to assist in further aligning the interests of the
Company's officers, key employees and consultants to those of its other
stockholders.

                                       77
<PAGE>

         Under the 2000 Plan, 1,000,000 shares of common stock are reserved for
issuance upon exercise of Benefits granted under the 2000 Plan. In addition, the
2000 Plan provides that the number of shares reserved for issuance thereunder
are automatically increased on the first day of each fiscal quarter of the
Company beginning on January 1, 2001, so that such number shall equal the lesser
of 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock (which number is subject to adjustment in
accordance with Section 13 thereof) or five percent (5%) of the Company's
outstanding common stock. The maximum number of shares of Common Stock with
respect to which Benefits may be granted or measured to any individual
participant under the Plan during the term of the Plan shall not exceed 750,000;
provided, however, that the maximum number of shares of Common Stock with
respect to which Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted to
an individual participant under the Plan during the term of the Plan shall not
exceed 750,000 (in each case subject to adjustments made in accordance with
Section 13 thereof). If any Benefit granted pursuant to the 2000 Plan
terminates, expires, or is canceled or surrendered, in whole or in part, shares
subject to the unexercised portion may again be issued pursuant to the 2000
Plan. The shares acquired upon exercise of Benefits granted under 2000 Plan will
be authorized and unissued shares of common stock. The Company's shareholders do
not have any preemptive rights to purchase or subscribe for the shares reserved
for issuance under the 2000 Plan.

         The 2000 Plan is administered by the Stock Option Committee, which has
the right to determine, among other things, the persons to whom options are
granted, the number of shares of common stock subject to options, the exercise
price of options and the other terms and conditions thereof. The 2000 Plan
provides for the issuance of Incentive Stock Options and Nonqualified Stock
Options. An Incentive Stock Option is an option to purchase common stock that
meets the definition of "incentive stock option" set forth in Section 422 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986. A Nonqualified Stock Option is an option to
purchase common stock that meets certain requirements in the plan but does not
meet the definition of an "incentive stock option" set forth in Section 422 of
the Code. In addition, the Benefits under the Plan may be granted in any one or
a combination of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Stock Awards, Performance
Awards and Stock Units. Upon receiving grants of Benefits, each holder of a
Benefit must enter into a benefit agreement with the Company that contains the
appropriate terms and conditions as determined by the Stock Option Committee.

         As of March 15, 2001, options to purchase 550,000 shares of common
stock were outstanding under the 2000 Plan and no options issued under the 2000
Plan had been exercised.

         401(k) Plan. The Company established a 401(k) Plan effective January 1,
2001. All employees of the Company, meeting certain minimum eligibility
requirements, are eligible to participate in the 401(k) Plan. The 401(k) Plan
provides that each participant may contribute up to 15% of his or her pre-tax
gross compensation (but not greater than a statutorily prescribed annual limit).
The percentage elected by certain highly compensated participants may be
required to be lower. The 401(k) Plan permits, but does not require, additional
contributions to the 401(k) Plan by the Company. All amounts contributed by
employee participants in conformance with Plan requirements and earnings on such
contributions are fully vested at all times. The Board of Directors will
determine on an annual basis whether a matching contribution will be made and,
if so, at what level of contribution.

                                       78
<PAGE>

         Long-Term Incentive and Pension Plans. The Company does not have any
other long-term incentive or pension plans.

         Compensation of Directors. Directors of the Company who are neither
employees nor consultants ("non-employee directors") are compensated at the rate
of $1,000 for each meeting of the Board of Directors attended in person, and all
directors are reimbursed for travel and lodging expenses in connection with
their attendance at meetings. The Company has established for the non-employee
directors the Director's Stock Option Plan (the "Directors Plan"), which
provides for automatic grants to each non-employee director of options to
purchase shares of common stock having a market value at the time of grant equal
to $25,000 (i) upon a person's election as a director and (ii) each year
thereafter upon such person's reelection as a director of the Company, in both
instances at an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the common
stock on the date of the grant. A total of 100,000 shares of common stock have
been reserved for issuance upon exercise of options granted under the Directors
Plan. Options to issue 69,172 shares of common stock have been issued under the
Directors Plan. Options granted under the Directors Plan become exercisable six
months after the date of grant and, except as otherwise approved by the Board,
expire five years after the date of grant. The Board of Directors, in its
discretion, may cancel all options granted under the Directors Plan that remain
unexercised on the date of consummation of certain corporate transactions
described in the Directors Plan. The Directors Plan will terminate in July 2003
unless sooner terminated under the provisions thereof. As of March 15, 2000,
options to purchase shares of common stock have been issued to the Company's
current directors under the Directors Plan as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                      Number of
                                   Shares Subject               Exercise                                  Expiration
      Name of Director               to Options                  Price              Grant Date               Date
      ----------------               ----------                  -----              ----------               ----

<S>                                     <C>                        <C>                 <C>  <C>             <C>  <C>
Harry T. Hoffman                        3,125                      $8.00               11/1/93              11/1/03
                                        4,762                      $5.25               8/23/96              8/23/01
                                        4,107                      $5.13                3/2/98               3/2/03
                                        5,719                      $5.0625              7/2/98               7/2/03
                                        4,819                      $5.188             12/15/00             12/15/10

Jules L. Plangere, Jr.                  4,107                      $5.13                3/2/98               3/2/03
                                        5,719                      $5.0625              7/2/98               7/2/03
                                        4,819                      $5.188             12/15/00             12/15/10

Deborah J. Simon                        4,166                      $6.00               11/8/95              11/8/05
                                        4,762                      $5.25               8/23/96              8/23/01
                                        4,107                      $5.13                3/2/98               3/2/03
                                        5,719                      $5.0625              7/2/98               7/2/03
                                        4,819                      $5.188             12/15/00             12/15/10

David D. Williams                       3,603                      $6.938              9/21/00              9/21/10
                                        4,819                      $5.188             12/15/00             12/15/10
</TABLE>

                                       79
<PAGE>


         See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions -- Consulting
Agreement with Dr. Martin H. Greenberg" for a description of the consulting
agreement between the Company and Dr. Greenberg.

         Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation. All
compensation decisions during 2000 were made by the Compensation Committee,
which consisted of Mitchell Rubenstein and Harry T. Hoffman, an independent
director. Harry T. Hoffman, Russell I. Pillar and Mitchell Rubenstein are the
current members of our Compensation Committee. Mr. Rubenstein is our Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Rubenstein does not participate in discussions
or decisions regarding his own compensation or performance appraisals.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.
          ---------------------------------------------------------------

         The following table sets forth certain information regarding the
beneficial ownership of the common stock of the Company as of March 26, 2001 by
(1) each person known to beneficially own more than 5% of the outstanding shares
of the common stock, (2) each director of the Company, (3) the Company's Chief
Executive Officer and four of the Company's other most highly compensated
executive officers whose total annualized salary and bonus in 2000 was $100,000
or more and (4) all directors and executive officers of the Company as a group.
Except as otherwise indicated, the Company believes that all beneficial owners
named in the table have sole voting and investment power with respect to all
shares of common stock beneficially owned by them. The Company is not aware of
any beneficial owner of more than five percent of the outstanding shares of
common stock of the Company other than as set forth in the following table.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

            Name and Address                    Number of Shares        Percent of
         of Beneficial Owner(1)                Beneficially Owned         Class
         ----------------------                ------------------       ----------
<S>            <C>                                <C>                      <C>
   Viacom Inc. (2)                                7,950,923                31.7%
   Tribune Company                                2,452,623                 9.8%
   Mitchell Rubenstein(3)                         2,268,853                 8.8%
   Laurie S. Silvers(3)                           2,268,853                 8.8%
   Dr. Martin H. Greenberg(4)                       367,500                 1.5%
   Jules L. Plangere, Jr.(5)                        112,743                 *
   Deborah J. Simon (6)                              41,886                 *

   Harry T. Hoffman(7)                               24,132                 *
   Russell I. Pillar                                     --                 *

   Mitchell Semel                                        --                 *
</TABLE>

                                       80
<PAGE>

   David D. Williams(8)                               8,422                 *

   W. Robert Shearer(9)                              39,013                 *

   Nicholas G. Hall(10)                               5,609                 *

   All directors and executive officers           2,869,158                11.0%
   of the Company as a group
   (11 persons) (11)
- ----------------

*        Less than 1%

(1)      Except as noted in this footnote, the address of each beneficial owner
         is in care of the Company, 2255 Glades Road, Suite 237 West, Boca
         Raton, Florida 33431. The business address of Viacom Inc. is 1515
         Broadway, 52nd Floor, New York, NY 10036-5794 and the business address
         of The Tribune Company is 435 N. Michigan Ave., 6th floor, Chicago,
         Illinois 60611.

(2)      Includes 100,000 shares of common stock issuable under a currently
         exercisable warrant.

(3)      Except for 100,000 shares owned individually by each of Mr. Rubenstein
         and Ms. Silvers, all of such shares are held by Mr. Rubenstein and Ms.
         Silvers jointly as tenants by the entireties. Includes an aggregate of
         895,000 shares of common stock issuable pursuant to stock options
         granted to, and 15,000 shares of common stock issuable pursuant to
         warrants purchased by, Mr. Rubenstein and Ms. Silvers that are
         currently exercisable.

(4)      Includes 91,667 shares of common stock owned by Dr. Greenberg's spouse,
         47,052 shares of common stock issuable pursuant to currently
         exercisable stock options, and 15,221 shares of common stock issuable
         under currently exercisable warrants.

(5)      Includes 14,645 shares of common stock issuable pursuant to options
         that are currently exercisable and 28,334 shares of common stock
         issuable under currently exercisable warrants.

(6)      Includes 23,573 shares of common stock issuable pursuant to options
         that are currently exercisable.

(7)      Includes 22,532 shares of common stock issuable pursuant to options
         that are currently exercisable and 400 shares of common stock issuable
         under a currently exercisable warrant.

(8)      Includes 8,422 shares of common stock issuable pursuant to options that
         are currently exercisable.

(9)      Includes 34,375 shares of common stock issuable pursuant to options
         that are currently exercisable.

(10)     Represents 5,609 shares of common stock issuable pursuant to options
         granted to Mr. Hall's spouse that are currently exercisable.

(11)     Includes 1,052,208 shares of common stock issuable pursuant to options
         that are currently exercisable and 58,955 shares of common stock
         issuable under currently exercisable warrants.

                                       81
<PAGE>

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
          ----------------------------------------------

Transaction with Viacom Inc.

         We entered into a strategic, seven-year relationship with Viacom Inc.
in January 2000 that provides for extensive promotion of the Hollywood.com and
Broadway.com web site. In connection with our strategic relationship, Viacom
Inc. purchased 6,672,031 shares of our common stock, representing approximately
30% of our outstanding common stock, in exchange for $5,303,030 in cash and
$100,000,000 of advertising, promotion, content and advertising sales support
over a seven-year term pursuant to an Advertising and Promotion Agreement and a
Content Agreement. We also issued to Viacom a Warrant to purchase an additional
1,178,892 shares of our Common Stock for an aggregate exercise price of
$10,937,002. Viacom exercised the warrant in full during March 2000. Half of the
warrant exercise price was paid in cash and half is payable in additional
advertising and promotion under the Advertising and Promotion Agreement and will
be furnished to us during the 24-month period following the exercise of the
Warrant. We also entered into an Investor's Rights Agreement, a Registration
Rights Agreement and a Voting Agreement with Viacom, which contain, among other
things, transfer restrictions, standstill provisions, pre-emptive rights,
registration rights and voting rights.

         Advertising and Promotion Agreement. Viacom has agreed to provide us an
aggregate of $70 million in advertising and promotion of the Hollywood.com and
Broadway.com web site over a seven-year term. In addition, we have the right to
allocate up to $30 million in value deliverable under the Content Agreement to
additional advertising and promotion under the Advertising and Promotion
Agreement for a total of up to $100 million in advertising and promotion. Viacom
Inc. conducts the advertising and promotion across its full range of CBS media
properties, including the CBS television network, CBS owned and operated
television stations, CBS cable networks, Infinity Broadcasting Corporation's
radio stations and outdoor billboards, CBS Internet sites and CBS syndicated
television programs. The advertising and promotion is provided pursuant to media
plans jointly developed each year by Viacom and us, which will provide
broad-based exposure for the Hollywood.com web site, including prominent
placements in conjunction with appropriate entertainment-related events and
programming. The value of all advertising and promotion furnished by Viacom to
us will be based on the average unit price paid to Viacom by third parties for
the particular media on which the advertising and promotion occurs.

         Viacom has the right to terminate its obligation to deliver advertising
and promotion under the Advertising and Promotion Agreement under a number of
circumstances, including, among others, if the Hollywood.com web site contains,
or links to, content that violates specified CBS license guidelines and we fail
to remove such content or links, we violate the terms of our other agreements
with Viacom or if certain defined competitors of Viacom acquire a significant
equity stake in the Company.

         Content License Agreement. Viacom has agreed to provide us an aggregate
of $30 million in value over a seven-year term to be allocated in our discretion
to the license of content, advertising sales or advertising and promotion. We
will receive $4.3 million in value during each of the first six years of the
term and $4.2 million in value during the last year of the term.

                                       82
<PAGE>

         License of Content. Viacom granted to us a license to use, distribute
and otherwise make available on the Hollywood.com web site certain text,
graphics, photographs, video, audio and other information owned by Viacom and
related to the movie business or any particular motion picture. In addition,
subject to compliance by us with certain obligations, Viacom has the right to
archive the content on the Hollywood.com web site after expiration of the term
of the Content License Agreement.

         Advertising Sales. We have the right to require Viacom to sell
advertisements on the Hollywood.com web site totaling gross advertising revenues
of up to $1.5 million per year and Viacom has agreed to include the
Hollywood.com web site in all advertising sales programs and presentations that
are appropriate for the sale of advertising on the web site. We have agreed to
pay to Viacom a commission of 8% of gross advertising revenues generated by
advertising sold by Viacom on the Hollywood.com web site in excess of the
portion of the $1.5 million guaranteed amount selected by us each year.

         Advertising and Promotion. We have the right to allocate all or any
portion of the $30 million in value to additional advertising and promotion of
the Hollywood.com and Broadway.com web site to be furnished by Viacom under the
Advertising and Promotion Agreement.

         Viacom Inc. has the right to terminate its obligations under the
Content Agreement upon the occurrence of any of the events that permit it to
terminate its obligations under the Advertising and Promotion Agreement.

         Investor's Rights Agreement. The Investor's Rights Agreement between
the Company and Viacom Inc. sets forth various rights and obligations of the
Company and Viacom related to Viacom's ownership of the Company's common stock,
including Viacom's registration rights with respect to the common stock, the
Company's right of first refusal with respect to transfers by Viacom of the
common stock, standstill provisions to which Viacom is bound, and preemptive
rights of Viacom with respect to certain issuances of common stock and other
securities by the Company.

         Registration Rights. Viacom has the right to initiate up to four
registrations under the Securities Act of 1933 of the common stock that it
acquired from the Company. The Investor's Rights Agreement contains various
restrictions on the timing of such registrations. In addition, Viacom has
"piggyback" registration rights allowing it to include the shares of common
stock that it acquires from the Company in registrations of the Company's common
stock initiated by the Company or other shareholders. The Company will pay all
expenses associated with any such registrations other than underwriters' fees or
commissions relating to the sale of the common stock.

         Transfer Restrictions; Right of First Refusal. Viacom is not permitted
to transfer any shares of the Company's common stock prior to January 3, 2001,
except to certain affiliates of Viacom. If Viacom proposes to transfer any
shares of common stock during the six year period following the first year,
other than to certain affiliates or in a bona fide public distribution pursuant
to an effective registration statement, the Company has the right to purchase
the shares on the same terms on which Viacom proposes to transfer them to a
third party. The Company's right of first refusal will terminate (a) at such
time as Mitchell Rubenstein, the Company's Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer, and Laurie S. Silvers, the Company's Vice Chairman of the
Board and President, have sold more than 60% of the common stock owned by them
as of the closing of the transaction or (b) at any time after the second
anniversary of the closing if Viacom owns less than 15% of the Company's
outstanding common stock (other than as a result of transfers by Viacom of at
least half of the common stock acquired by it from the Company).

                                       83
<PAGE>

         Standstill Provisions. For a period of seven years ending in January
2007, Viacom agrees that, except as contemplated by the Investor's Rights
Agreement, it will not, directly or indirectly, do any of the following:

(1)      acquire or propose to acquire any securities of the Company if, after
         giving effect thereto, Viacom and its affiliates beneficially own in
         excess of 34.8% of the Company's outstanding common stock;

(2)      solicit proxies or become a participant in a solicitation of proxies or
         consents with respect to any securities of the Company or initiate or
         encourage the submission of any stockholder proposal or election
         contest with respect to the Company;

(3)      take any action for the purpose of convening a meeting of the
         shareholders of the Company or initiate any process to solicit or
         obtain consents of shareholders in lieu of a meeting;

(4)      except as may be required by applicable law, make any public
         announcement or disclosure in respect in respect of any plan, contract
         or arrangement relating to the acquisition of capital stock of the
         Company or a merger, sale of assets or other extraordinary corporate
         transaction relating to the Company;

(5)      deposit capital stock of the Company into a voting trust or subject
         capital stock of the Company to voting agreements, or grant a proxy or
         power-of-attorney with respect to any capital stock of the Company to
         any person not designated by the Company who is not an officer,
         director or employee of Viacom or its affiliates;

(6)      form or in any participate in a group for the purpose of acquiring,
         holding, voting or disposing of securities of the Company; or

(7)      disclose publicly any intention or arrangement inconsistent with the
         foregoing or enter into any discussions or understandings with any
         third party with a view to encouraging any action prohibited with the
         foregoing.

         If the Company's Board of Directors approves or recommends to its
shareholders for approval any transaction in which a party (other than Company's
existing large shareholders) would acquire at least 50% of the Company's
outstanding common stock, then the restrictions described above would not apply
during the pendency of the transaction and would cease upon the consummation of
the transaction.

         Voting Agreement. The Voting Agreement among the Company, Viacom and
certain shareholders of the Company contains agreements by such parties with
respect to nominating individuals to serve on the Company's Board of Directors
and the voting of the common stock owned by such parties in favor of such
nominees. Viacom has the right to nominate for election to the Company's Board
of Directors a number of individuals equal to the product of Viacom's percentage
ownership of the Company's common stock and the total number of members of the


                                       84
<PAGE>

Board of Directors (rounded down to the nearest whole number). In addition, as
long as the Promotion Agreement and the Content Agreement remain in effect,
Viacom shall have the right to designate at least one nominee to the Board of
Directors. In all elections for members of the Board of Directors, each of the
shareholders that is a party to the Voting Agreement agrees to vote all shares
beneficially owned by them in favor of the Viacom designees. Each of Tribune
Company, Mitchell Rubenstein, Laurie S. Silvers, Martin H. Greenberg and
Rosalind Greenberg are parties to the Voting Agreement. As of March 26, 2000,
those shareholders beneficially owned approximately 20.9% of the Company's
outstanding common stock. Viacom's current nominees to the Board of Directors
are Mitchell Semel and Russell I. Pillar.

         In all elections for members of the Board of Directors, Viacom agrees
to vote all shares of common stock owned by it, or over which it has voting
control, in favor of (1) each individual nominated for election to the Board by
the Company, and (2) each individual nominated for election to the Board by
Tribune Company pursuant to the Shareholder Agreement between the Company and
Tribune Company.

         Viacom's right to nominate directors for election to the Board will
terminate upon the acquisition by Viacom of an equity interest in excess of 15%
in any entity who owns, operates or controls a web site that is a competitor of
the Hollywood.com web site. The Voting Agreement contains a description of the
type of web site that will constitute a competitor of the Hollywood.com web
site.

Transactions with Tribune Company

         In May 1999 the Company completed the acquisition of hollywood.com,
Inc. (formerly known as Hollywood Online Inc.) from Tribune Company. The Company
paid the purchase price for the acquisition by issuing to Tribune Company
2,300,075 shares of common stock and an unsecured promissory note for
$1,928,138. The promissory note was repaid in full by the issuance of 152,548
shares of common stock to Tribune Company.

         The Company and Tribune Company entered into the following additional
agreements in connection with the Company's acquisition of hollywood.com, Inc.

         Shareholder Agreement. The Company and Tribune Company entered into a
Shareholder Agreement containing various rights and obligations associated with
Tribune Company's ownership of the common stock. Pursuant to the Shareholder
Agreement, Tribune Company agreed to certain standstill provisions, including
that it will not acquire any additional equity securities of the Company or
solicit proxies or consents with respect to the securities of the Company or
initiate any shareholder proposal. In addition, Tribune Company agreed that it
will not transfer any common stock to any competitor of the Company, or to any
transferee or group of related transferees of the Company that would, after such
transfer, hold more than 2.5% of the voting securities of the Company.

         Tribune Company also agreed pursuant to the Shareholder Agreement that
for a period of three years after the closing of the acquisition it will vote
all shares of common stock owned by it in favor of the nominees for election to
the Company's Board of Directors recommended to the Company's shareholders by
the Board of Directors. In addition, with respect to all other matters submitted
to a vote of the shareholders of the Company (other than certain transactions
that would dilute its ownership of Company common stock or result in a change of
control of the Company), Tribune Company agrees that for a period of three years
it will vote all shares of Company common stock owned by it in the same
proportion as all other shareholders of the Company vote on any such matter.

                                       85
<PAGE>

         Tribune Company will be entitled to designate one person as a nominee
for election to the Company's Board of Directors as long as it beneficially owns
at least 5% of the voting securities of the Company. If the Company increases
the size of its Board of Directors from nine to ten members, Tribune Company
will be entitled to designate one additional person as a nominee for election to
the Company's Board of Directors. If the Company increases the size of its Board
of Directors to a number greater than ten, Tribune Company shall be entitled to
designate a number of nominees proportionate to its percentage ownership of
Company common stock. Tribune Company's current nominee to the Board of
Directors is David D. Williams.

         The standstill provisions of the Shareholder Agreement terminate upon
the earlier to occur of January 10, 2004 and the date of a change of control (as
defined) of the Company. The other provisions of the Shareholder Agreement
terminate on the earliest of these dates and the date on which Tribune Company
beneficially owns less than 5% of the voting securities of the Company.

         Registration Rights Agreement. The Company and Tribune Company entered
into a Registration Rights Agreement upon the closing of the acquisition, which
provides Tribune Company with the right to require the Company to register the
common stock acquired by Tribune Company in the acquisition under the Securities
Act under certain conditions. Tribune Company and its permitted transferees have
the right on four separate occasions to require the Company to effect a
registration under the Securities Act of at least 20% of the common stock
acquired by Tribune Company in the acquisition to be sold in a firm commitment
underwritten public offering for cash. In addition, at any time when the Company
proposes to register shares of common stock under the Securities Act, it will
give notice to Tribune Company and its permitted transferees of its intention to
do so and of the material terms of the proposed registration. The Company will
use its best efforts to include in the proposed registration all shares of
common stock that it is requested in writing by Tribune Company or its permitted
transferees to register. The permitted transferees of Tribune Company that are
entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement include only
wholly owned subsidiaries of Tribune Company and certain charitable
organizations affiliated with Tribune Company.

         Non-Competition Agreement. The Company and Tribune Company also entered
into a Non-Competition Agreement upon the closing of the acquisition. Tribune
Company agrees in the Non-Competition Agreement that for a period of three years
after the closing, it will not engage or participate in any business or venture
that operates as its primary focus a national- or international-targeted web
site dedicated to providing movie-going consumers with movie-related information
or offering for sale movie-themed merchandise or tickets for movies (a
"Competing Business"). In addition, Tribune Company agrees that for a period of
three years after the closing, it will not own, manage, operate, promote,
control, or be connected with as a stockholder (other than on a passive basis
with less than 5% of the equity of a publicly-traded company or less than 10% of
the equity of a privately-owned company), joint venturer or partner in, any
Competing Business. Notwithstanding the foregoing, certain business ventures and
activities of Tribune Company shall not be considered a Competing Business,
including, among others, the operation of the current web site operated by
newspapers owned by Tribune Company to the extent the web site provide primarily
local and regional movie information and movie-themed merchandise and the
licensing and syndication of movie information by the L.A. Times Syndicate to
third parties, which information is posted to such parties' web site.


                                       86
<PAGE>

Investments by Affiliate of the Simon Property Group

         Pursuant to a 1995 stock purchase agreement with Tekno Simon, an
affiliate of the Simon Property Group, and its Co-Chairman, Melvin Simon, Tekno
Simon invested $2,000,000 in shares of the Company's Series A Preferred Stock
and Series B Preferred Stock and $1,000,000 in shares of the Company's common
stock.

         Under the original Simon Stock Purchase Agreement, the Series A
Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock were convertible at the option
of the holder, at any time prior to November 28, 1997, into shares of common
stock on a one-for-one basis.

         In May 1999 the Company agreed to extend the conversion option and
allow Tekno Simon to convert the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock into
common stock. In exchange, Tekno Simon agreed to waive certain accrued dividends
payable on the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock. In May 1999 Tekno Simon
converted all of the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock into 300,631 shares
of common stock.

         Pursuant to the Simon Stock Purchase Agreement, Tekno Simon has the
right to designate one nominee to the Company's Board of Directors until such
time as Tekno Simon holds less than 25% of the sum of (i) the shares of common
stock issued upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock, and (ii) the
shares of common stock purchased by Tekno Simon in 1995. Certain principal
shareholders of the Company, including Mitchell Rubenstein, Laurie S. Silvers
and Dr. Martin H. Greenberg, have agreed to vote their shares of common stock in
favor of the election of Tekno Simon's nominee to the Board of Directors. Tekno
Simon's current nominee on the Board of Directors is Deborah J. Simon.

Investment by the Company's Directors

         In September 2000, the Company entered into definitive agreements to
issue a total of 733,696 shares of the Company's common stock to investors for
an aggregate purchase price of $4,250,000 in cash. The transaction which closed
in November 2000, was structured as a private placement to accredited investors
and the Company agreed to register the shares for resale by the investors. As
part of the private placement, Mitchell Rubenstein, the Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, purchased 125,001 shares of the Company's
common stock at a purchase price of $6.00 per share.

         In May 1999, the Company issued 569,820 shares of common stock in a
private placement at a purchase price of $21.25 per share. In addition, the
Company issued to the same investors warrants to purchase an aggregate of
189,947 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $21.25 per share. Five
members of the Company's then current Board of Directors participated in the
private placement and purchased an aggregate of 35,700 shares of common stock
and received warrants to purchase an aggregate of 11,902 shares of common stock
on the same terms as the other investors in the private placement.

         In July 1998, six members of the Company's then current Board of
Directors (including Mitchell Rubenstein, the Company's Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer, Laurie S. Silvers, the Company's Vice Chairman and
President, and Martin H. Greenberg, the Chief Executive Officer of Tekno Books,
the Company's 51%-owned subsidiary) purchased an aggregate of 187,442 shares of
the Company's common stock for $5.00 per share, the then market price of the
stock. In conjunction with the private placement of these shares, the investors
received five-year warrants to purchase an aggregate of 93,721 shares of the
Company's common stock at $5.00 per share.

                                       87
<PAGE>

Consulting Agreement with Dr. Martin H. Greenberg

         In 1993 the Company entered into a consulting agreement with Dr. Martin
H. Greenberg pursuant to which Dr. Greenberg agreed to render advisory and
consulting services to the Company, including identifying best-selling authors
to create intellectual properties for the Company and negotiating agreements
with such authors, arranging for the publication of prose novels and anthologies
for children and adults based on the Company's characters, and attending trade
shows and conventions on the Company's behalf. The consulting agreement will
expire in November 2003, unless terminated earlier, which termination may take
place only under certain conditions. Pursuant to the consulting agreement, in
November 1993 Dr. Greenberg began receiving consulting fees of $30,000 per year
and was granted an option to purchase 6,250 shares of common stock at an
exercise price of $8.00 per share.

         In connection with the acquisition of Tekno Books, the consulting
agreement was amended on December 9, 1994 (1) to provide that Dr. Greenberg will
have the exclusive right to package novelizations based on the Company's
entertainment properties, and (2) in lieu of future annual stock option grants
to which Dr. Greenberg was entitled under the original agreement, to grant Dr.
Greenberg options to purchase 17,778 shares of common stock at an exercise price
of $8.4375 per share (the then approximate market price of the common stock).
Mr. Greenberg received the stock options and receives the consulting fees in
lieu of a base salary. Mr. Greenberg does not receive a salary for serving as
the Chief Executive Officer of Tekno Books.

Line of Credit

         During the first quarter of 1999, Mitchell Rubenstein, the Company's
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Laurie S. Silvers, the
Company's Vice Chairman and President, agreed to increase their previously
extended $1.1 million unsecured line of credit facility to the Company to $5.5
million to enable the Company to meet its working capital requirements for the
balance of 1999. The interest rate on the line of credit was set at the JP
Morgan Bank prime rate of interest. This commitment terminated in accordance
with its terms during the second quarter of 1999 as a result of the Company
raising in excess of $5.5 million from other sources for working capital
purposes. In addition, during the second quarter of 2000, Mitchell Rubenstein
and Laurie S. Silvers, advanced a $2,050,000 unsecured line of credit facility
to the Company. The Company drew upon this line of credit in the second quarter
of 2000 to enable the Company to meet its obligation to lend to a former
shareholder of CinemaSource funds to pay a portion of the shareholder's taxes
resulting from the sale of CinemaSource to the Company, and again in the third
quarter of 2000. The loans were repaid in full and there are no borrowings by
the Company under the line of credit as of March 26, 2001.


                                       88
<PAGE>

Item 14.  Exhibits and Reports on Form 8-K.
          ---------------------------------
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

             (a)  Exhibits:
                                                                                                      Incorporated by
Exhibit                Description                                                                    Reference From
- -------                                                                                               --------------

<S>                     <C>
       3.1             Third Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation                                      *

       3.2             Articles of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation of the Company for
                       Designation of Preferences, Rights and Limitations of 7% Series D
                       Convertible Preferred Stock                                                              (1)

       3.3             Articles of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation of the Company for
                       Designation of Preferences, Rights and Limitations of 7% Series D-2
                       Convertible Preferred Stock                                                              (2)

       3.4             Articles of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation of the Company
                       amending  Designation of Preferences, Rights and Limitations of Series A
                       Variable Rate Convertible Preferred Stock                                                (3)

       3.5             Articles of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation of the Company
                       amending Designation of Preferences, Rights and Limitations of Series B
                       Variable Rate Convertible Preferred Stock                                                (3)

       3.6             Bylaws                                                                                   (4)

       4.1             Form of Common Stock Certificate                                                         (4)

       4.2             Rights Agreement dated as of August 23, 1996 between the Company and
                       American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as Rights Agent
                                                                                                                (5)
      10.1              Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements
                        (a)     Employment Agreement between the Company and
                                Mitchell Rubenstein                                                            (11)
                        (b)     Extension and Amendment Agreement between the Company and
                                Mitchell Rubenstein entered into as of July 1, 1998                            (12)
                        (c)     Employment Agreement between the Company and Laurie
                                S. Silvers                                                                     (11)
                        (d)     Extension and Amendment  Agreement between the Company and Laurie
                                Silvers entered into as of July 1, 1998                                        (12)

                                       89
<PAGE>

                        (e)     1993 Stock Option Plan, as amended effective October 1, 1999                   (14)
                        (f)     Directors Stock Option Plan, as amended effective July 2, 1998                 (12)
                        (g)     Form of  Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each
                                of its Directors and Officers                                                  (11)
                        (h)     2000 Stock Incentive Plan                                                        *
                        (i)     401(k) Plan                                                                      *

       10.2            Securities Purchase Agreement, dated July 28, 1999, between the Company
                       and AOL Latin America, S.L.                                                              (6)

       10.3            Warrant dated July 28, 1999 by the Company issued in the name of AOL
                       Latin America, S.L. for 100,000 shares of common stock                                   (6)

       10.4            Stock Purchase  Agreement, dates as of August 26, 1999, between the
                       Company and Viacom Inc. (as sucessor to CBS Corporation)                                 (7)

       10.5            Asset  Purchase  Agreement,  dated as of August 30,  199, by and among the
                       Company, Baseline II, Inc. Paul Kagan Associates, Inc., Cinema
                       Enterprises Group LLC and Paul Kagan                                                     (8)

       10.6            Non-Competition  Agreement, dated as of August 30, 1999, by and among the
                       Company, Baseline  II, Inc.  Paul Kagan Associates, Inc., Cinema
                       Enterprises Group LLC and Paul Kagan                                                     (8)

       10.7            Warrant  dated  August  31,  1999,  by the  Company  issued in the name of
                       Baseline  II,  Inc.  for  49,262  shares of  Common  Stock  (with  similar
                       Warrants to purchase  3,284 and 2,189 shares of Common Stock issued in the
                       name of Paul Kagan associates, Inc. and Paul Kagan, respectively)                        (8)

       10.8            Employment Agreement,  dated as of May 18, 1999, between Showtimes.com,  Inc.
                       and Brett West                                                                           (3)

       10.9            Non-Competition Agreement, dated as May 18, 1999, by and among the Company,
                       CinemaSource, Inc., Brett West and Pamela West                                           (3)

       10.10           Unsecured Promissory Note, dated May 20, 1999, in favor of The Times Mirror
                       Company                                                                                  (3)

       10.11           Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of May 20, 1999, between the Company
                       and The Times Mirror Company                                                             (9)

       10.12           Non-Competition  Agreement, dated as of May 20, 1999, between the Company and
                       The Times Mirror Company                                                                 (9)

                                       90
<PAGE>

       10.13           Employment  Agreement, dated as of May 31, 1999, between the Company and W.
                       Robert Shearer                                                                           (3)

       10.14           Form of Subscription Agreement between the Company and each of the investors
                       in the  Company's private placement of an aggregate of 569,820 shares of
                       Common Stock                                                                             (3)

       10.15           Modification  Agreement  dated  March 28, 1999 between the Company and
                       BankBoston Retail Finance Inc.                                                          (10)

       10.16           Second  Modification  Agreement  dated March 26, 1999 between Tekno Comix,
                       Inc. and BankBoston Retail Finance Inc.                                                 (10)

       10.17           Agreement  and Plan of Merger dated as of January 10,  1999,  by and among
                       The Times  Mirror  Company,  Hollywood  Online  Inc.,  the Company and Big
                       Acquisition Corp.                                                                        (9)

       10.18           Asset  Purchase  Agreement  dated March 29, 1999 by and among the Company,
                       CinemaSource, Inc., Brett West and Pamela West                                          (13)

       10.19           Common Stock  Investment  Agreement  dated as of August 22, 2000 among the
                       Company, Elliott Associates L.P. and Westgate International, L.P.                       (15)

       10.20           Registration  Rights  Agreement  dated  August 22, 2000 among the Company,
                       Elliott Associates, L.P. and Westgate International, L.P.                               (15)

       10.21           Common Stock Adjustment  Warrant dated August 22, 2000 between the Company
                       and Elliott Associates, L.P.                                                            (15)

       10.22           Common Stock Adjustment  Warrant dated August 22, 2000 between the Company
                       and Westgate International, L.P.                                                        (15)

       10.23           Common Stock Purchase  Warrant dated August 22, 2000 between the Company
                       and Elliott Associates, L.P.                                                            (15)

       10.24           Common Stock Purchase Warrant dated August 22, 2000 between the Company
                       and Westgate International, L.P.                                                        (15)

       10.25           Purchase  Agreement  effective as of September 29, 2000 among
                       Hollywood.com, Inc. and the Purchasers named therein.                                   (16)

       10.26           Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of September 15, 2000 by and among
                       Cameron  Mackintosh, Inc., Theatre Direct NY, Inc., Hollywood.com, Inc.
                       and Theater Acquisition Corp.                                                           (17)

                                       91
<PAGE>

     21.1             Subsidiaries of the Company                                                               *

     23.1             Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP                                                            *

</TABLE>

- ------------------

* Filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.

(1)      Incorporated by reference from the exhibit filed with the Company's
         Quarterly Report on Form 10-QSB for the quarter ended September 30,
         1998.

(2)      Incorporated by reference from the exhibit filed with the Company's
         Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-68209).

(3)      Incorporated by reference from exhibits filed with the Company's
         Quarterly Report on Form 10-QSB for the quarter ended June 30, 1999.

(4)      Incorporated by reference from the exhibit filed with the Company's
         Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (No. 33-69294).

(5)      Incorporated by reference from exhibit 1 to the Company's Current
         Report on Form 8-K filed on October 20, 1999.

(6)      Incorporated by reference from the exhibits filed with the Company's
         Quarterly Report on Form 10-QSB for the quarter ended September 30,
         1999.

(7)      Incorporated by reference from exhibit 1 to the Company's Current
         Report on Form 8-K filed on September 28, 1999.

(8)      Incorporated by reference from exhibits 1, 2 and 3 to the Company's
         Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 15, 1999.

(9)      Incorporated by reference from exhibit 2 to the Company's Current
         Report on Form 8-K filed on January 20, 1999.

(10)     Incorporated by reference from exhibits filed with the Company's
         Quarterly Report on Form 10-QSB for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.

(11)     Incorporated by reference from the exhibit filed with the Company's
         Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (No. 33-69294).

(12)     Incorporated by reference from the exhibit filed with the Company's
         Quarterly Report on Form 10-QSB for the quarter ended September 30,
         1998.

(13)     Incorporated by reference from the exhibit filed with the Company's
         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998.

(14)     Incorporated by reference from the exhibit filed with the Company's
         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999.

(15)     Incorporated by reference from the exhibits to the Company's Current
         Report on Form 8-K filed on August 29,2000.

(16)     Incorporated by reference from the exhibits to the Company's Current
         Report on Form 8-K filed on October 5, 2000.

(17)     Incorporated by reference from the exhibits to the Company's Quarterly
         Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2000.

                                       92
<PAGE>

         (b)      Reports on Form 8-K:

                  The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K on October 5,
2000 disclosing that as of September 29, 2000, the Company entered into
definitive agreements to issue a total of 733,696 shares of the Company's common
stock, $0.01 par value, to investors for an aggregate purchase price of
$4,250,000 in cash.

                                       93
<PAGE>


                                   SIGNATURES

        In accordance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the
Registrant caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                            HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP.

Date:  March 30, 2001                                       By: /s/ Mitchell  Rubenstein
                                                                ---------------------------------------------------
                                                                Mitchell  Rubenstein,  Chairman  of  the  Board  and
                                                                Chief Executive Officer

         In accordance with the Exchange Act, this report has been signed below
by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and
on the dates indicated:

<S>                                                       <C>
Date:  March 30, 2001                                       /s/ Mitchell  Rubenstein
                                                            -------------------------------------------------------
                                                            Mitchell  Rubenstein,  Chairman  of the  Board and Chief
                                                            Executive Officer  (Principal  executive,  financial and
                                                            accounting officer)

Date:  March 30, 2001                                       /s/ Laurie S. Silvers
                                                            -------------------------------------------------------
                                                            Laurie S. Silvers, Vice Chairman of the Board,
                                                            President and Secretary

Date:  March 30, 2001                                       /s/ Martin H. Greenberg
                                                            -------------------------------------------------------
                                                            Martin H. Greenberg, Director

Date:  March 30, 2001                                       /s/ Harry T. Hoffman
                                                            -------------------------------------------------------
                                                            Harry T. Hoffman, Director

Date:  March 30, 2001                                       /s/ Jules L. Plangere, Jr.
                                                            -------------------------------------------------------
                                                            Jules L. Plangere, Jr., Director

Date:  March 30, 2001                                       /s/ Deborah J. Simon
                                                            -------------------------------------------------------
                                                            Deborah J. Simon, Director

Date:  March 30, 2001                                       /s/ Mitchell Semel
                                                            -------------------------------------------------------
                                                            Mitchell Semel, Director

Date:  March 30, 2001                                       /s/ Russell I. Pillar
                                                            -------------------------------------------------------
                                                            Russell I. Pillar, Director

</TABLE>

                                       94
<PAGE>

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


EXHIBIT                           DESCRIPTION

3.1                        Third Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation

10.1(h)                    2000 Stock Incentive Plan

10.1(i)                    401(k) Plan

21.1                       Subsidiaries of the Company

23.1                       Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP





                                       95

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<FILENAME>amendedarticles.txt
<DESCRIPTION>THIRD AMEND AND RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
<TEXT>

                                                                     Exhibit 3.1

                           THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED
                            ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
                                       OF
                               HOLLYWOOD.COM, INC.
                               -------------------
                             (a Florida corporation)

         Pursuant to Sections 607.1003, 607.1006 and 607.1007 of the Florida
Business Corporation Act (the "FBCA"), the Articles of Incorporation of
HOLLYWOOD.COM, INC., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Florida, the Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of
which were filed with the Department of State of the State of Florida on
December 22, 1999, are hereby amended and restated in their entirety as follows:

                                    ARTICLE I
                                      Name
                                      ----

       The name of the corporation is HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP. (the"Corporation").
                                                                 -----------
                                   ARTICLE II
                                Principal Office
                                ----------------

         The address of the principal office and the mailing address of the
Corporation is 2255 Glades Road, Suite 237 West, Boca Raton, Florida 33431, or
in any other city in the State of Florida designated by the Board of Directors
of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors") from time to time.

                                   ARTICLE III
                                   Capital Stock
                                   -------------

         The total number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have
the authority to issue is one hundred and one million (101,000,000) shares,
consisting of (1) one hundred million (100,000,000) shares of common stock, par
value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock") and (2) one million (1,000,000)
shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock").

         The designation and the preferences, limitations and relative rights of
the Common Stock and the Preferred Stock of the Corporation are as follows:

A.       Provisions Relating to the Common Stock.
        ----------------------------------------

         1.       Voting Rights.
                  -------------


                  (a)      Except as otherwise required by law or as may be
                           provided by the resolutions of the Board of Directors
                           authorizing the issuance of any class or series of
                           Preferred Stock, as provided in Section B of this
                           Article III, all rights to vote and all voting power
                           shall be vested exclusively in the holders of the
                           Common Stock.



<PAGE>


                  (b)      The holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled to
                           one vote per share on all matters submitted to a vote
                           of shareholders, including, without limitation, the
                           election of directors.

         2.       Dividends. Except as otherwise provided by law or as may be
                  provided by the resolutions of the Board of Directors
                  authorizing the issuance of any class or series of Preferred
                  Stock, as provided in Section B of this Article III, the
                  holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled to receive when,
                  as and if provided by the Board of Directors, out of funds
                  legally available therefor, dividends payable in cash, stock
                  or otherwise.

         3.       Liquidating Distributions.Upon any liquidation, dissolution or
                  winding-up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or
                  involuntary, and after payment or provision for payment of the
                  debts and other liabilities of the Corporation, and except as
                  may be provided by the resolutions of the Board of Directors
                  authorizing the issuance of any class or series of Preferred
                  Stock, as provided in Section B of this Article III, the
                  remaining assets of the Corporation shall be distributed
                  pro-rata to the holders of the Common Stock.

B.       Provisions Relating to the Preferred Stock
         ------------------------------------------

         1. General. The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one
or more classes or series, the shares of each class or series to have such
designations, powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and
restrictions thereof as are stated and expressed herein and in the resolution or
resolutions providing for the issue of such class or series adopted by the Board
of Directors as hereinafter prescribed.

         2. Preferences. Authority is hereby expressly granted to and vested in
the Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of the Preferred Stock from
time to time in one or more classes or series, to determine and take necessary
proceedings fully to effect the issuance and redemption of any such Preferred
Stock, and, with respect to each class or series of the Preferred Stock, to fix
and state by the resolution or resolutions from time to time adopted providing
for the issuance thereof the following:

                  (a)      whether or not the class or series is to have voting
                           rights, full or limited, or is to be without voting
                           rights;

                  (b)      the number of shares to constitute the class or
                           series and the designation thereof;

                  (c)      the preferences and relative, participating, optional
                           or other special rights, if any, and the
                           qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof,
                           if any, with respect to any class or series;

                                       -2-

<PAGE>


                  (d)      whether or not the shares of any class or series
                           shall be redeemable and if redeemable the redemption
                           price or prices, and the time or times at which and
                           the terms and conditions upon which, such shares
                           shall be redeemable and the manner of redemption;

                  (e)      whether or not the shares of a class or series shall
                           be subject to the operation of retirement of sinking
                           funds to be applied to the purchase or redemption of
                           such shares for retirement, and if such retirement or
                           sinking fund or funds be established, the annual
                           amount thereof and the terms and provisions relative
                           to the operation thereof;

                  (f)      the dividend rate, whether dividends are payable in
                           cash, stock of the Corporation, or other property,
                           the conditions upon which and the times when such
                           dividends are payable, the preference to or the
                           relation to the payment of the dividends payable on
                           any other class or classes or series of stock,
                           whether or not such dividend shall be cumulative or
                           noncumulative, and if cumulative, the date or dates
                           from which such dividends shall accumulate;

                  (g)      the preferences, if any, and the amounts thereof that
                           the holders of any class or series thereof shall be
                           entitled to receive upon the voluntary or involuntary
                           dissolution of, or upon any distribution of the
                           assets of, the Corporation;

                  (h)      whether or not the shares or any class or series
                           shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, the
                           shares of any other class or classes or of any other
                           series of the same or any other class or classes of
                           the Corporation and the conversion price or prices or
                           ratio or ratios or the rate or rates at which such
                           conversion or exchange may be made, with such
                           adjustments, if any, as shall be stated and expressed
                           or provided for in such resolution or resolutions;
                           and

                  (i)      such other special rights and protective provisions
                           with respect to any class or series as the Board of
                           Directors may deem advisable.

         The shares of each class or series of the Preferred Stock may vary from
the shares of any other class or series thereof in any or all of the foregoing
respects. The Board of Directors may increase the number of shares of Preferred
Stock designated for any existing class or series by a resolution adding to such
class or series authorized and unissued shares of the Preferred Stock not
designated for any other class or series. The Board of Directors may decrease
the number of shares of the Preferred Stock designated for any existing class or
series by a resolution subtracting from such class or series unissued shares of
the Preferred Stock designated for such class or series and the shares so
subtracted shall become authorized, unissued and undesignated shares of the
Preferred Stock.


                                       -3-

<PAGE>



                                   ARTICLE IV
                                    Directors
                                    ---------

         The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall consist of at least one
Director, with the exact number of Directors to be fixed from time to time in
the manner provided in the Company's Bylaws.

                                    ARTICLE V
                     Registered Office and Registered Agent
                     --------------------------------------

         The street address of the Corporation's registered office in the State
of Florida is 2255 Glades Road, Suite 237 West, Boca Raton, Florida 33431, and
the name of its registered agent at such address, whose Consent to Appointment
as Registered Agent accompanies these Third Amended and Restated Articles of
Incorporation, is Mitchell Rubenstein.

                                   ARTICLE VI
                                 Indemnification
                                 ---------------

         This Corporation shall indemnify and shall advance expenses on behalf
of its officers and directors to the fullest extent not prohibited by law either
now or hereafter.

         Such amendment and restatement of the Second Amended and Restated
Articles of Incorporation has been duly authorized and directed by all of the
members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation at a duly called special
meeting of Board of Directors held by telephone conference call at 10:00 am EST
on November 3, 2000, and at the Corporation's Annual Meeting of the Shareholders
of the Corporation, held on December 15, 2000, which shareholders' consent was
sufficient for the approval of the amendment and restatement. Such amendment and
restatement of the Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation
supersede the original Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation and all
amendments and restatements thereto.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, for the purpose of amending and
restating the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation pursuant to the laws of
the State of Florida, has executed these Third Amended and Restated Articles of
Incorporation as of the 15th day of December, 2000.



                                                HOLLYWOOD.COM, INC.


                                                By:  /s/ Laurie S. Silvers
                                                     -----------------------
                                                         Laurie S. Silvers,
                                                         President


                                       -4-

<PAGE>


                   CONSENT TO APPOINTMENT AS REGISTERED AGENT

                                       OF

                               HOLLYWOOD.COM, INC.
                               -------------------

         The undersigned, Mitchell Rubenstein, whose business address is 2255
Glades Road, Suite 237W, Boca Raton, Florida 33431, hereby accepts appointment
as the registered agent of HOLLYWOOD.COM, INC., a Florida corporation, and
accepts the obligations provided for in Section 607.0505, Florida Statutes.


                                                 /s/ Mitchell Rubenstein
                                                 -----------------------
                                                 MITCHELL RUBENSTEIN
                                                 Registered Agent


                                       -5-

<PAGE>


                                   CERTIFICATE
                                     OF THE
                                  PRESIDENT OF
                               HOLLYWOOD.COM, INC.
                                  REGARDING THE
                           THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED
                            ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION

         The undersigned, hereby certifies on behalf of Hollywood.com, Inc., a
Florida corporation (the "Corporation"), pursuant to and in accordance with
Section 607.1007(4) of the Florida Business Corporation Act, for the purpose of
filing its Third Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation with the
Department of State of the State of Florida, as follows:

         1.       The name of the Corporation is Hollywood.com, Inc.

         2.       The Corporation's Third Amended and Restated Articles of
Incorporation attached hereto contain amendments to the Corporation's Second
Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation that provide for the
Corporation's name change to "Hollywood Media Corp." which amendment requires
shareholder approval.

         3.       In accordance with the provisions of the Florida Business
Corporation Act, the amendments set forth in the Corporation's Third Amended and
Restated Articles of Incorporation were duly adopted by (a) all of the members
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation at a duly called special meeting of
Board of Directors held by telephone conference call at 10:00 am EST on November
3, 2000 and (b) the holders of more than a majority of the Corporation's common
stock, par value $.01 per share, which is the Corporation's only outstanding
class of voting capital stock, at a duly convened meeting of the shareholders of
the Corporation held on December 15, 2000. The number of votes cast were
sufficient for approval and adoption of the Third Amended and Restated Articles
of Incorporation.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Certificate as of
December 15, 2000.

                                             HOLLYWOOD.COM, INC.



                                             By:  /s/ Laurie S. Silvers
                                                  ---------------------
                                                  Name:    Laurie S. Silvers
                                                  Title:   President

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.1(H)
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>stockincentiveplan.txt
<DESCRIPTION>2000 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
<TEXT>

                                                                 Exhibit 10.1(h)
                              HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP.

                            2000 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN


         1. PURPOSE. The Hollywood Media Corp. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (the
"Plan") is intended to provide incentives which will attract, retain and
motivate highly competent persons as officers and key employees of, and
consultants to, Hollywood Media Corp. (the "Company") and its subsidiaries and
affiliates, by providing them opportunities to acquire shares of the Company's
common stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), or to receive
monetary payments based on the value of such shares pursuant to the Benefits (as
defined below) described herein. Additionally, the Plan is intended to assist in
further aligning the interests of the Company's officers, key employees and
consultants to those of its other stockholders.

         2. ADMINISTRATION.

                  (a) The Plan will be administered by one or more committees
(collectively, the "Committee") appointed by the Board of Directors of the
Company from among its members (which may be or include the Compensation
Committee). The Committee is authorized, subject to the provisions of the Plan,
to establish such rules and regulations as it deems necessary for the proper
administration of the Plan and to make such determinations and interpretations
and to take such action in connection with the Plan and any Benefits granted
hereunder as it deems necessary or advisable. All determinations and
interpretations made by the Committee shall be binding and conclusive on all
participants and their legal representatives. No member of the Committee and no
employee of the Company shall be liable for any act or failure to act hereunder,
except in circumstances involving his or her bad faith, gross negligence or
willful misconduct, or for any act or failure to act hereunder by any other
member or employee or by any agent to whom duties in connection with the
administration of this Plan have been delegated. The Company shall indemnify
members of the Committee and any agent of the Committee who is an employee of
the Company, a subsidiary or an affiliate against any and all liabilities or
expenses to which they may be subjected by reason of any act or failure to act
with respect to their duties on behalf of the Plan, except in circumstances
involving such person's bad faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct. In
the event that the Committee fails to meet the requirements for an exception to
the maximum compensation expense deduction limit under Section 162(m) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") then the Committee may
have its decisions ratified by the Board, to the extent necessary to meet the
requirements applicable to such exception under Section 162(m) of the Code.

                  (b) The Committee may delegate to one or more of its members,
or to one or more agents, such administrative duties as it may deem advisable,
and the Committee, or any person to whom it has delegated duties as aforesaid,
may employ one or more persons to render advice with respect to any
responsibility the Committee or such person may have under the Plan. The
Committee may employ such legal or other counsel, consultants and agents as it
may deem desirable for the administration of the Plan and may rely upon any
opinion or computation received from any such counsel, consultant or agent.
Expenses incurred by the Committee in the engagement of such counsel, consultant
or agent shall be paid by the Company, or the subsidiary or affiliate whose
employees have benefited from the Plan, as determined by the Committee.

         3. PARTICIPANTS. Participants will consist of such officers and key
employees of, and such consultants to, the Company and its subsidiaries and
affiliates as the Committee in its sole discretion determines to be
significantly responsible for the success and future growth and profitability of
the Company and whom the Committee may designate from time to time to receive
Benefits under the Plan. Designation of a participant in any year shall not
require the Committee to designate such person to receive a Benefit in any other

<PAGE>

year or, once designated, to receive the same type or amount of Benefit as
granted to the participant in any other year. The Committee shall consider such
factors as it deems pertinent in selecting participants and in determining the
type and amount of their respective Benefits.

         4. TYPE OF BENEFITS. Benefits under the Plan may be granted in any one
or a combination of (a) Stock Options, (b) Stock Appreciation Rights, (c) Stock
Awards, (d) Performance Awards and (e) Stock Units (each as described below, and
collectively, the "Benefits"). Stock Awards, Performance Awards, and Stock Units
may, as determined by the Committee in its discretion, constitute
Performance-Based Awards, as described in Section 11 hereof. Benefits shall be
evidenced by agreements (which need not be identical) in such forms as the
Committee may from time to time approve; provided, however, that in the event of
any conflict between the provisions of the Plan and any such agreements, the
provisions of the Plan shall prevail.

         5. COMMON STOCK AVAILABLE UNDER THE PLAN. The aggregate number of
shares of Common Stock that may be subject to Benefits, including Stock Options,
granted under this Plan shall be up to 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock, which
may be authorized and unissued or treasury shares, subject to any adjustments
made in accordance with Section 13 hereof. In addition, as the number of
outstanding shares of Common Stock increases from time to time (which number
shall be determined without considering as outstanding any shares of Common
Stock that are the subject of any unexercised options under this Plan or any
other option plan of the Company or any shares of Common Stock owned by the
Company or any of its subsidiaries) the number of shares of Common Stock
available for issuance under this Plan shall increase proportionately on the
first day of each fiscal quarter of the Company beginning on January 1, 2001, so
that such number shall equal the lesser of 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock
(which number is subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 13 hereof) or
five percent (5%) of the outstanding shares of Common Stock. The maximum number
of shares of Common Stock with respect to which Benefits may be granted or
measured to any individual participant under the Plan during the term of the
Plan shall not exceed 750,000; provided, however, that the maximum number of
shares of Common Stock with respect to which Stock Options and Stock
Appreciation Rights may be granted to an individual participant under the Plan
during the term of the Plan shall not exceed 750,000 (in each case subject to
adjustments made in accordance with Section 13 hereof). Any shares of Common
Stock subject to a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right which for any reason
is cancelled or terminated without having been exercised, any shares subject to
Stock Awards, Performance Awards or Stock Units which are forfeited, any shares
subject to Performance Awards settled in cash or any shares delivered to the
Company as part or full payment for the exercise of a Stock Option or Stock
Appreciation Right shall again be available for Benefits under the Plan. The
preceding sentence shall apply only for purposes of determining the aggregate
number of shares of Common Stock subject to Benefits; provided, however, that
shares of Common Stock that are again made available for Benefits under the
immediately preceding sentence shall nevertheless be treated as outstanding with
respect to the individual to whom Benefits relating to such shares were
originally granted for purposes of determining the maximum shares of Common
Stock that may be awarded to any individual participant under the Plan.

         6. STOCK OPTIONS. Stock Options will consist of awards from the Company
that will enable the holder to purchase a number of shares of Common Stock, at
set terms. Stock Options may be "incentive stock options" ("Incentive Stock
Options"), within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code, or Stock Options which
do not constitute Incentive Stock Options ("Nonqualified Stock Options"). The
Committee will have the authority to grant to any participant one or more
Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Stock Options, or both types of Stock
Options (in each case with or without Stock Appreciation Rights). Each Stock
Option shall be subject to such terms and conditions consistent with the Plan as
the Committee may impose from time to time, subject to the following
limitations:



                                       2
<PAGE>

                  (a) EXERCISE PRICE. Each Stock Option granted hereunder shall
have such per-share exercise price as the Committee may determine at the date of
grant; provided, however, subject to subsection (d) below, that the per-share
exercise price for Incentive Stock Options granted hereunder shall not be less
than 100% of the Fair Market Value (as defined below) of the Common Stock on the
date the Incentive Stock Option is granted.

                  (b) PAYMENT OF EXERCISE PRICE. The option exercise price may
be paid in cash or, in the discretion of the Committee, by the delivery of
shares of Common Stock of the Company then owned by the participant, or by
delivery to the Company of (x) irrevocable instructions to deliver directly to a
broker the stock certificates representing the shares for which the Option is
being exercised, and (y) irrevocable instructions to such broker to sell such
shares for which the Option is being exercised, and promptly deliver to the
Company the portion of the proceeds equal to the Option exercise price and any
amount necessary to satisfy the Company's obligation for withholding taxes, or
any combination thereof. For purposes of making payment in shares of Common
Stock, such shares shall be valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of
exercise of the Option and shall have been held by the Participant for at least
six months. To facilitate the foregoing, the Company may enter into agreements
for coordinated procedures with one or more brokerage firms. The Committee may
prescribe any other method of paying the exercise price that it determines to be
consistent with applicable law and the purpose of the Plan, including, without
limitation, in lieu of the exercise of a Stock Option by delivery of shares of
Common Stock of the Company then owned by a participant, providing the Company
with a notarized statement attesting to the number of shares owned, where upon
verification by the Company, the Company would issue to the participant only the
number of incremental shares to which the participant is entitled upon exercise
of the Stock Option.

                  (c) EXERCISE PERIOD. Stock Options granted under the Plan
shall be exercisable at such time or times and subject to such terms and
conditions as shall be determined by the Committee; provided, however, that no
Stock Option shall be exercisable later than ten years after the date it is
granted except in the event of a participant's death, in which case, the
exercise period of such participant's Stock Options may be extended beyond such
period but no later than one year after the participant's death. All Stock
Options shall terminate at such earlier times and upon such conditions or
circumstances as the Committee shall in its discretion set forth in such option
agreement at the date of grant; provided, however, the Committee may, in its
sole discretion, later waive any such condition.

                  (d) LIMITATIONS ON INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS. Incentive Stock
Options may be granted only to participants who are employees of the Company or
one of its subsidiaries (within the meaning of Section 424(f) of the Code) at
the date of grant. The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the time
the Stock Option is granted) of the Common Stock with respect to which Incentive
Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by a participant during any
calendar year (under all option plans of the Company and of any parent
corporation or subsidiary corporation (as defined in Sections 424(e) and (f) of
the Code, respectively)) shall not exceed $100,000. For purposes of the
preceding sentence, Incentive Stock Options will be taken into account in the
order in which they are granted. The per-share exercise price of an Incentive
Stock Option shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Common
Stock on the date of grant, and no Incentive Stock Option may be exercised later
than ten years after the date it is granted; provided, however, Incentive Stock
Options may not be granted to any participant who, at the time of grant, owns
stock possessing (after the application of the attribution rules of Section
424(d) of the Code) more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all
classes of stock of the Company or any parent or subsidiary corporation of the
Company, unless the exercise price is fixed at not less than 110% of the Fair
Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of grant and the exercise of such
option is prohibited by its terms after the expiration of five years from the


                                       3
<PAGE>

date of grant of such option. In addition, no Incentive Stock Option may be
issued to a participant in tandem with a Nonqualified Stock Option.

                  (e) POST-EMPLOYMENT EXERCISES. The exercise of any Stock
Option after termination of employment of a participant with the Company, a
subsidiary of the Company or with any company providing consulting services to
the Company shall be subject to such conditions as imposed by the Committee at
the time of the grant and satisfaction of the conditions precedent that the
participant neither (i) competes with, or takes other employment with or renders
services to a competitor of, the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates without
the written consent of the Company; provided that this clause (i) shall not
apply to consultants of the Company, nor (ii) conducts himself or herself in a
manner adversely affecting the Company; provided, however, that the Committee,
in its sole discretion, may waive any conditions imposed in the grant letter or
as set forth in (i) and (ii) above relating to the exercise of options after the
date of termination of employment during the term of the option.

         7. STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS.

                  (a) The Committee may, in its discretion, grant Stock
Appreciation Rights to the holders of any Stock Options granted hereunder. In
addition, Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted independently of, and without
relation to, Stock Options. A Stock Appreciation Right means a right to receive
a payment in cash, Common Stock or a combination thereof, in an amount equal to
the excess of (x) the Fair Market Value, or other specified valuation, of a
specified number of shares of Common Stock on the date the right is exercised
over (y) the Fair Market Value, or other specified valuation (which shall be no
less than the Fair Market Value) of such shares of Common Stock on the date the
right is granted, all as determined by the Committee; provided, however, that if
a Stock Appreciation Right is granted in tandem with or in substitution for a
Stock Option, the designated Fair Market Value in the award agreement may be the
Fair Market Value on the date such Stock Option was granted. Each Stock
Appreciation Right shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the
Committee shall impose from time to time.

                  (b) Stock Appreciation Rights granted under the Plan shall be
exercisable at such time or times and subject to such terms and conditions as
shall be determined by the Committee; provided, however, that no Stock
Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable later than ten years after the date it
is granted except in the event of a participant's death, in which case, the
exercise period of such participant's Stock Appreciation Rights may be extended
beyond such period but no later than one year after the participant's death. All
Stock Appreciation Rights shall terminate at such earlier times and upon such
conditions or circumstances as the Committee shall in its discretion set forth
in such right at the date of grant.

                  (c) The exercise of any Stock Appreciation Right after
termination of employment of a participant with the Company, a subsidiary of the
Company or with any company providing consulting services to the Company shall
be subject to satisfaction of the conditions precedent that the participant
neither (i) competes with, or takes other employment with or renders services to
a competitor of, the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates without the written
consent of the Company; provided that this clause (i) shall not apply to
consultants of the Company, nor (ii) conducts himself or herself in a manner
adversely affecting the Company; provided, however, that the Committee, in its
sole discretion, may waive any conditions imposed in the grant letter or as set
forth in (i) and (ii) above relating to the exercise of options after the date
of termination of employment during the term of the option.

         8. STOCK AWARDS. The Committee may, in its discretion, grant Stock
Awards (which may include mandatory payment of bonus incentive compensation in
stock) consisting of Common Stock issued or transferred to participants with or


                                       4
<PAGE>

without other payments therefor. Stock Awards may be subject to such terms and
conditions as the Committee determines appropriate, including, without
limitation, restrictions on the sale or other disposition of such shares, the
right of the Company to reacquire such shares for no consideration upon
termination of the participant's employment within specified periods, and may
constitute Performance-Based Awards, as described in Section 11 hereof. The
Committee may require the participant to deliver a duly signed stock power,
endorsed in blank, relating to the Common Stock covered by such an Award. The
Committee may also require that the stock certificates evidencing such shares be
held in custody or bear restrictive legends until the restrictions thereon shall
have lapsed. The Stock Award shall specify whether the participant shall have,
with respect to the shares of Common Stock subject to a Stock Award, all of the
rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock of the Company, including the right
to receive dividends and to vote the shares.

         9. PERFORMANCE AWARDS.

                  (a) Performance Awards may be granted to participants at any
time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee. Performance
Awards may constitute Performance-Based Awards, as described in Section 11
hereof. The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number,
amount and timing of awards granted to each participant. Such Performance Awards
may be in the form of shares of Common Stock or Stock Units. Performance Awards
may be awarded as short-term or long-term incentives. Performance targets may be
based upon, without limitation, Company-wide, divisional and/or individual
performance.

                  (b) With respect to those Performance Awards that are not
intended to constitute Performance-Based Awards, the Committee shall have the
authority at any time to make adjustments to performance targets for any
outstanding Performance Awards which the Committee deems necessary or desirable
unless at the time of establishment of such targets the Committee shall have
precluded its authority to make such adjustments.

                  (c) Payment of earned Performance Awards shall be made in
accordance with terms and conditions prescribed or authorized by the Committee.
The participant may elect to defer, or the Committee may require or permit the
deferral of, the receipt of Performance Awards upon such terms as the Committee
deems appropriate.

         10. STOCK UNITS.

                  (a) The Committee may, in its discretion, grant Stock Units to
participants hereunder. The Committee shall determine the criteria for the
vesting of Stock Units. Stock Units may constitute Performance-Based Awards, as
described in Section 11 hereof. A Stock Unit granted by the Committee shall
provide payment in shares of Common Stock at such time as the award agreement
shall specify. Shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to this Section 10 may be
issued with or without other payments therefor as may be required by applicable
law or such other consideration as may be determined by the Committee. The
Committee shall determine whether a participant granted a Stock Unit shall be
entitled to a Dividend Equivalent Right (as defined below).

                  (b) Upon vesting of a Stock Unit, unless the Committee has
determined to defer payment with respect to such unit or a participant has
elected to defer payment under subsection (c) below, shares of Common Stock
representing the Stock Units shall be distributed to the participant unless the
Committee provides for the payment of the Stock Units in cash or partly in cash
and partly in shares of Common Stock equal to the value of the shares of Common
Stock which would otherwise be distributed to the participant.



                                       5
<PAGE>

                  (c) Prior to the year with respect to which a Stock Unit may
vest, the participant may elect not to receive a distribution upon the vesting
of such Stock Unit and for the Company to continue to maintain the Stock Unit on
its books of account. In such event, the value of a Stock Unit shall be payable
in shares of Common Stock pursuant to the agreement of deferral.

                  (d) A "Stock Unit" means a notional account representing one
share of Common Stock. A "Dividend Equivalent Right" means the right to receive
the amount of any dividend paid on the share of Common Stock underlying a Stock
Unit, which shall be payable in cash or in the form of additional Stock Units.

         11. PERFORMANCE-BASED AWARDS. Certain Benefits granted under the Plan
may be granted in a manner such that the Benefits qualify for the
performance-based compensation exemption of Section 162(m) of the Code
("Performance-Based Awards"). As determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion, either the granting or vesting of such Performance-Based Awards
shall be based on achievement of hurdle rates and/or growth rates in one or more
business criteria that apply to the individual participant, one or more business
units or the Company as a whole. The business criteria shall be as follows,
individually or in combination: (i) net earnings; (ii) earnings per share; (iii)
net sales growth; (iv) market share; (v) net operating profit; (vi) expense
targets; (vii) working capital targets relating to inventory and/or accounts
receivable; (viii) operating margin; (ix) return on equity; (x) return on
assets; (xi) planning accuracy (as measured by comparing planned results to
actual results); (xii) market price per share; and (xiii) total return to
stockholders. In addition, Performance-Based Awards may include comparisons to
the performance of other companies, such performance to be measured by one or
more of the foregoing business criteria. With respect to Performance-Based
Awards, (i) the Committee shall establish in writing (x) the performance goals
applicable to a given period, and such performance goals shall state, in terms
of an objective formula or standard, the method for computing the amount of
compensation payable to the participant if such performance goals are obtained
and (y) the individual employees or class of employees to which such performance
goals apply no later than 90 days after the commencement of such period (but in
no event after 25% of such period has elapsed) and (ii) no Performance-Based
Awards shall be payable to or vest with respect to, as the case may be, any
participant for a given period until the Committee certifies in writing that the
objective performance goals (and any other material terms) applicable to such
period have been satisfied. With respect to any Benefits intended to qualify as
Performance-Based Awards, after establishment of a performance goal, the
Committee shall not revise such performance goal or increase the amount of
compensation payable thereunder (as determined in accordance with Section 162(m)
of the Code) upon the attainment of such performance goal. Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence, the Committee may reduce or eliminate Benefits payable upon
the attainment of such performance goal.

         12. FOREIGN LAWS. The Committee may grant Benefits to individual
participants who are subject to the tax laws of nations other than the United
States, which Benefits may have terms and conditions as determined by the
Committee as necessary to comply with applicable foreign laws. The Committee may
take any action which it deems advisable to obtain approval of such Benefits by
the appropriate foreign governmental entity; provided, however, that no such
Benefits may be granted pursuant to this Section 12 and no action may be taken
which would result in a violation of the Exchange Act, the Code or any other
applicable law.

         13. ADJUSTMENT PROVISIONS; CHANGE IN CONTROL.

                  (a) If there shall be any change in the Common Stock of the
Company or the capitalization of the Company through merger, consolidation,
reorganization, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock
split, split up, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, dividend


                                       6
<PAGE>

in kind or other like change in capital structure or distribution (other than
normal cash dividends) to stockholders of the Company in order to prevent
dilution or enlargement of participants' rights under the Plan, the Committee,
in its sole discretion, shall adjust, in an equitable manner, as applicable, the
number and kind of shares that may be issued under the Plan, the number and kind
of shares subject to outstanding Benefits, the exercise price applicable to
outstanding Benefits, and the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock and other
value determinations applicable to outstanding Benefits; provided, however, that
any such arithmetic adjustment to a Performance-Based Award shall not cause the
amount of compensation payable thereunder to be increased from what otherwise
would have been due upon attainment of the unadjusted award. Appropriate
adjustments may also be made by the Committee in the terms of any Benefits under
the Plan to reflect such changes or distributions and to modify any other terms
of outstanding Benefits on an equitable basis, including modifications of
performance targets and changes in the length of performance periods; provided,
however, that any such arithmetic adjustment to a Performance-Based Award shall
not cause the amount of compensation payable thereunder to be increased from
what otherwise would have been due upon attainment of the unadjusted award. In
addition, other than with respect to Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights,
and other awards intended to constitute Performance-Based Awards, the Committee
is authorized to make adjustments to the terms and conditions of, and the
criteria included in, Benefits in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events
affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company, or in response
to changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) each such adjustment with respect to an
Incentive Stock Option shall comply with the rules of Section 424(a) of the
Code, and (ii) in no event shall any adjustment be made which would render any
Incentive Stock Option granted hereunder other than an incentive stock option
for purposes of Section 422 of the Code. The determination of the Committee as
to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on
participants under the Plan.

                  (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, if there
is a Change in Control of the Company, all then outstanding Stock Options and
Stock Appreciation Rights shall immediately vest and become exercisable. For
purposes of this Section 14(b), a "Change in Control" of the Company shall be
deemed to have occurred upon any of the following events:

                           (i) the Company's Board of Directors shall approve
any merger, consolidation, or like business combination or reorganization of the
Company (which shall include a series of transactions occurring within 60 days
or occurring pursuant to a plan), that will have the result that (A) any legal
entity or person owns at least 51 percent of the voting stock of the Company or
(B) shareholders of the Company immediately before such transaction cease to own
at least 51 percent of the voting stock of the Company or of any entity that
results from the participation of the Company in the transaction, and such
transaction shall have been consummated; or

                           (ii) during any period of two (2) consecutive years,
the individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Company's
Board of Directors or any individuals who would be "Continuing Directors" (as
hereinafter defined) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority
thereof; or

                           (iii) the Company's Common Stock shall cease to be
publicly traded; or

                           (iv) the Company's Board of Directors shall approve a
sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, and such
transaction shall have been consummated.

                  For purposes of this Section 13(b), "Continuing Directors"
shall mean (x) the directors of the Company in office on the Effective Date (as
defined below) and (y) any successor to any such director and any additional


                                       7
<PAGE>

director who after the Effective Date was nominated or selected by a majority of
the Continuing Directors (or the Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors
of the Company) in office at the time of his or her nomination or selection.

                  The Committee, in its discretion, may determine that, upon the
occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company or the other events specified
in Section 13(a), each Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Right outstanding
hereunder shall terminate within a specified number of days after notice to the
holder, and such holder shall receive, with respect to each share of Common
Stock subject to such Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right, an amount equal
to the excess of the Fair Market Value of such shares of Common Stock
immediately prior to the occurrence of such Change in Control over the exercise
price per share of such Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right; such amount to
be payable in cash, in one or more kinds of property (including the property, if
any, payable in the transaction) or in a combination thereof, as the Committee,
in its discretion, shall determine. The provisions contained in the preceding
sentence shall be inapplicable to a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right
granted within six (6) months before the occurrence of a Change in Control if
the holder of such Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right is subject to the
reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act and no exception
from liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act is otherwise available to
such holder.

         14. NONTRANSFERABILITY. Each Benefit granted under the Plan to a
participant shall not be transferable otherwise than by will or the laws of
descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable, during the participant's
lifetime, only by the participant. In the event of the death of a participant,
each Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right theretofore granted to him or her
shall be exercisable during such period after his or her death as the Committee
shall in its discretion set forth in such option or right at the date of grant
and then only by the executor or administrator of the estate of the deceased
participant or the person or persons to whom the deceased participant's rights
under the Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall pass by will or the
laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, at the
discretion of the Committee, an award of a Benefit other than an Incentive Stock
Option may permit the transferability of a Benefit by a participant solely to
the participant's spouse, siblings, parents, children and grandchildren or
trusts for the benefit of such persons or partnerships, corporations, limited
liability companies or other entities owned solely by such persons, including
trusts for such persons, subject to any restriction included in the award of the
Benefit.

         15. OTHER PROVISIONS. The award of any Benefit under the Plan may also
be subject to such other provisions (whether or not applicable to the Benefit
awarded to any other participant) as the Committee determines appropriate,
including, without limitation, for the installment purchase of Common Stock
under Stock Options, for the installment exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights,
to assist the participant in financing the acquisition of Common Stock, for the
forfeiture of, or restrictions on resale or other disposition of, Common Stock
acquired under any form of Benefit, for the acceleration of exercisability or
vesting of Benefits in the event of a change in control of the Company, for the
payment of the value of Benefits to participants in the event of a change in
control of the Company, or to comply with federal and state securities laws, or
understandings or conditions as to the participant's employment in addition to
those specifically provided for under the Plan. The Committee shall have full
discretion to interpret and administer the Plan.

         16. FAIR MARKET VALUE. For purposes of this Plan and any Benefits
awarded hereunder, Fair Market Value shall be (i) the closing price of the
Company's Common Stock on the date preceding the date of calculation (or on the
last preceding trading date if Common Stock was not traded on such date) if the
Company's Common Stock is readily tradeable on a national securities exchange or
other market system, (ii) if the Company's Common Stock is not readily
tradeable, Fair Market Value shall mean the amount determined in good faith by
the Committee as the fair market value of the Common Stock of the Company and


                                       8
<PAGE>

(iii) in connection with a Change in Control of the Company or an event
specified in Section 13(a), the value of the consideration paid to stockholders
in connection with such Change in Control or event or if no consideration is
paid in respect thereof, the amount determined pursuant to clause (i) above.

         17. WITHHOLDING. All payments or distributions of Benefits made
pursuant to the Plan shall be net of any amounts required to be withheld
pursuant to applicable federal, state and local tax withholding requirements. If
the Company proposes or is required to distribute Common Stock pursuant to the
Plan, it may require the recipient to remit to it or to the corporation that
employs such recipient an amount sufficient to satisfy such tax withholding
requirements prior to the delivery of any certificates for such Common Stock. In
lieu thereof, the Company or the employing corporation shall have the right to
withhold the amount of such taxes from any other sums due or to become due from
such corporation to the recipient as the Committee shall prescribe. The
Committee may, in its discretion and subject to such rules as it may adopt
(including any as may be required to satisfy applicable tax and/or non-tax
regulatory requirements), permit an optionee or award or right holder to pay all
or a portion of the federal, state and local withholding taxes arising in
connection with any Benefit consisting of shares of Common Stock by electing to
have the Company withhold shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value
equal to the amount of tax to be withheld, such tax calculated at rates required
by statute or regulation.

         18. TENURE. A participant's right, if any, to continue to serve the
Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates as an officer, employee, or
otherwise, shall not be enlarged or otherwise affected by his or her designation
as a participant under the Plan.

         19. UNFUNDED PLAN. Participants shall have no right, title, or interest
whatsoever in or to any investments which the Company may make to aid it in
meeting its obligations under the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan, and no
action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create
a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any
participant, beneficiary, legal representative or any other person. To the
extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company
under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured
general creditor of the Company. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid
from the general funds of the Company and no special or separate fund shall be
established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such
amounts except as expressly set forth in the Plan. The Plan is not intended to
be subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.

         20. NO FRACTIONAL SHARES. No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be
issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Benefit. The Committee shall
determine whether cash, or Benefits, or other property shall be issued or paid
in lieu of fractional shares or whether such fractional shares or any rights
thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.

         21. DURATION, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION. No Benefit shall be granted
more than ten years after the Effective Date. The Committee may amend the Plan
from time to time or suspend or terminate the Plan at any time. No amendment of
the Plan may be made without approval of the stockholders of the Company if the
amendment will: (i) disqualify any Incentive Stock Options granted under the
Plan; (ii) increase the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be
delivered through Stock Options under the Plan; (iii) change the types of
business criteria on which Performance-Based Awards are to be based under the
Plan; or (iv) modify the requirements as to eligibility for participation in the
Plan.



                                       9
<PAGE>

         22. GOVERNING LAW. This Plan, Benefits granted hereunder and actions
taken in connection herewith shall be governed and construed in accordance with
the laws of the State of Florida (regardless of the law that might otherwise
govern under applicable Florida principles of conflict of laws).

         23. EFFECTIVE DATE.

                  (a) The Plan shall be effective as of November 3, 2000, the
date on which the Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors (the "Effective
Date"), provided that the Plan is approved by the stockholders of the Company at
an annual meeting, any special meeting or by written consent of stockholders of
the Company within 12 months of the Effective Date, and such approval of
stockholders shall be a condition to the right of each participant to receive
any Benefits hereunder. Any Benefits granted under the Plan prior to such
approval of stockholders shall be effective as of the date of grant (unless,
with respect to any Benefit, the Committee specifies otherwise at the time of
grant), but no such Benefit may be exercised or settled and no restrictions
relating to any Benefit may lapse prior to such stockholder approval, and if
stockholders fail to approve the Plan as specified hereunder, any such Benefit
shall be cancelled.

                  (b) This Plan shall terminate on November 3, 2010 (unless
sooner terminated by the Committee).


                                      * * *








                                       10
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.1(I)
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>profitsharingplan.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PROFIT SHARING PLAN
<TEXT>

                                                                 Exhibit 10.1(i)

                              HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP.

                           401(K)/PROFIT SHARING PLAN

                        (Effective as of January 1, 2001)


<PAGE>

<TABLE>

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                               PAGE
                                                                                                               ----
<S>                                                                                                              <C>
ARTICLE I - DEFINITIONS...........................................................................................1
         Section 1.1       Definitions............................................................................1
ARTICLE II - ELIGIBILITY..........................................................................................8
- ------------------------
         Section 2.1       Eligibility Requirements...............................................................8
                           ------------------------
         Section 2.2       Reemployment...........................................................................9
                           ------------
         Section 2.3       Election to Make Deferred Participant Contributions....................................9
                           ---------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE III - PARTICIPANT CONTRIBUTIONS...........................................................................9
- ---------------------------------------s
         Section 3.1       Amount of Contribution.................................................................9
                           ----------------------
         Section 3.2       Change of Rate of Contribution........................................................10
                           ------------------------------
         Section 3.3       Suspension of Contribution............................................................10
                           --------------------------
         Section 3.4       Payment of Contribution...............................................................11
                           -----------------------
         Section 3.5       Transfer from Qualified Plans.........................................................11
                           -----------------------------
         Section 3.6       Additional Participant Contributions Following Qualified Military Service.............13
                           -------------------------------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE IV - EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS..............................................................................14
- -----------------------------------
         Section 4.1       Employer Contributions................................................................14
                           ----------------------
         Section 4.2       Payment of Contributions..............................................................15
                           ------------------------
         Section 4.3       Return of Contributions...............................................................15
                           -----------------------
         Section 4.4       Allocation of Employer Contributions..................................................16
                           ------------------------------------
ARTICLE V - CONTRIBUTION LIMITATIONS.............................................................................17
- ------------------------------------
         Section 5.1       Definitions...........................................................................17
                           -----------
         Section 5.2       Actual Deferral Percentage Tests......................................................20
                           --------------------------------
         Section 5.3       Adjustment for Actual Deferral Percentage Tests.......................................21
                           -----------------------------------------------
         Section 5.4       Maximum Contribution Percentage Tests.................................................23
                           -------------------------------------
         Section 5.5       Adjustment for Excessive Contribution Percentage......................................25
                           ------------------------------------------------
         Section 5.6       Multiple Employer Non-discrmmination Testing..........................................25
                           --------------------------------------------
         Section 5.7       Limitation on Contributions on Behalf of Individual Employees.........................26
                           -------------------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE VI - ADMINISTRATION OF FUNDS.............................................................................29
- ------------------------------------
         Section 6.1       Appointment of Trustee................................................................29
                           ----------------------
         Section 6.2       Payment of Plan Expenses..............................................................29
                           ------------------------
         Section 6.3       Participants' Accounts................................................................29
                           ----------------------
         Section 6.4       Valuation of the Investment Funds.....................................................29
                           ---------------------------------
         Section 6.5       Valuation of the Trust Fund...........................................................30
                           ---------------------------
         Section 6.6       Allocation of Increase or Decrease In Value of Investment Fund........................31
                           --------------------------------------------------------------
         Section 6.7       Allocation of Changes in Trust Fund Value.............................................31
                           -----------------------------------------
ARTICLE VII - INVESTMENT OF TRUST FUNDS..........................................................................31
- ---------------------------------------
         Section 7.1       Investment Funds......................................................................31
                           ----------------
         Section 7.2       Investment Elections..................................................................31
                           --------------------
         Section 7.3       Changing an Investment Election.......................................................32
                           -------------------------------
ARTICLE VIII - PAYMENT OF BENEFITS...............................................................................32
- ----------------------------------
         Section 8.1       Retirement Benefits...................................................................32
                           -------------------
         Section 8.2       Limitations Regarding Time of Payment of Benefits.....................................33
                           -------------------------------------------------
         Section 8.3       Trustee to Trustee Transfer...........................................................34
                           ---------------------------
         Section 8.4       Withholding of Income Tax.............................................................35
                           -------------------------
         Section 8.5       Waiver of Notice Requirements.........................................................37
                           -----------------------------
         Section 8.6       Location of Participant or Beneficiary Unknown........................................38
                           ----------------------------------------------
ARTICLE IX - SEVERANCE AND VESTING...............................................................................38
- ----------------------------------
         Section 9.1       Benefits Upon Severance...............................................................39
                           -----------------------



<PAGE>

         Section 9.2       Payment of Participant's Benefits Upon Severance......................................39
                           ------------------------------------------------
         Section 9.3       Vesting.............................................................................  40
                           -------
ARTICLE X - WITHDRAWALS..........................................................................................42
- -----------------------
         Section 10.1      Hardship Withdrawals..................................................................42
                           --------------------
         Section 10.2      Amount Available for Withdrawal.......................................................44
                           -------------------------------
         Section 10.3      Payment of Withdrawals................................................................45
                           ----------------------
ARTICLE XI - DEATH BENEFITS......................................................................................45
- ---------------------------
         Section 11.1      Death Prior to Commencement of Payment................................................45
                           --------------------------------------
         Section 11.2      Death After Commencement of Payments..................................................45
                           ------------------------------------
         Section 11.3      Verification of Death Benefit Payments................................................46
                           --------------------------------------
         Section 11.4      Beneficiary Designation...............................................................46
                           -----------------------
ARTICLE XII - LOANS..............................................................................................48
- -------------------
         Section 12.1      Availability..........................................................................48
                           ------------
         Section 12.2      Maximum Amount........................................................................48
                           --------------
         Section 12.3      Promissory Note.......................................................................48
                           ---------------
         Section 12.4      Repayment.............................................................................48
                           ---------
         Section 12.5      Reduction of Account Balance..........................................................49
                           ----------------------------
         Section 12.6  Administrative Costs of Loans.............................................................49
                       -----------------------------
ARTICLE XIII        AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION; MERGER..............................................49
- ------------        -----------------------------------------------
         Section 13.1      Right to Amend or Terminate...........................................................49
                           ---------------------------
         Section 13.2      Vesting Upon Termination or Discontinuance of Contributions...........................50
                           -----------------------------------------------------------
         Section 13.3      Non-Diversion of Assets...............................................................50
                           -----------------------
         Section 13.4      Merger or Consolidation of Plan; Transfer of Plan Assets..............................51
                           --------------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE XIV - ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE...........................................................................51
- --------------------------------------
         Section 14.1      Establishment of Administrative Committee.............................................51
                           -----------------------------------------
         Section 14.2      Delegation of Specific Responsibilities...............................................52
                           ---------------------------------------
         Section 14.3      Power to Establish Regulations........................................................52
                           ------------------------------
         Section 14.4      Claims Procedure......................................................................52
                           ----------------
         Section 14.5      Liability of the Committee............................................................54
                           --------------------------
         Section 14.6      Fiduciary Responsibility -- Insurance, Bonding........................................55
                           ----------------------------------------------
         Section 14.7      Allocation of Responsibility Among Fiduciaries for Plan and Trust Administration......55
                           --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE XV - GENERAL PROVISIONS..................................................................................56
- -------------------------------
         Section 15.1      Prohibition Against Attachment........................................................56
         Section 15.2      Facility of Payment...................................................................58
                           -------------------
         Section 15.3      Payment to Minor Beneficiary..........................................................59
                           ----------------------------
         Section 15.4      No Rights of Employment...............................................................59
                           -----------------------
         Section 15.5      Liability for Payment.................................................................59
                           ---------------------
         Section 15.6      Applicable Law........................................................................59
                           --------------
         Section 15.7      Construction..........................................................................59
                           ------------
         Section 15.8      Titles................................................................................59
                           ------
         Section 15.9      Counterparts..........................................................................60
                           ------------
ARTICLE XVI - TOP-HEAVY PROVISIONS...............................................................................60
- ----------------------------------
         Section 16.1      Definitions...........................................................................60
                           -----------
         Section 16.2      Top-Heavy Vesting Schedule............................................................64
                           --------------------------
         Section 16.3      Top-Heavy Minimum Contribution........................................................64
                           ------------------------------
         Section 16.4      Top-Heavy Adjustment to Section 415 Limitations.......................................65
                           -----------------------------------------------
         Section 16.5      Certain Benefits Disregarded..........................................................66
                           ----------------------------
         Section 16.6      Multiple Employer Top-Heavy Provisions................................................66
                           --------------------------------------
APPENDIX I.......................................................................................................67
- ----------
APPENDIX II......................................................................................................69
- -----------

</TABLE>

                                      -ii-
<PAGE>

                              HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP.

                           401(K)/PROFIT SHARING PLAN


                             ARTICLE I - DEFINITIONS

         Section 1.1 Definitions. Whenever used herein, the following words
shall have the meaning set forth below unless otherwise clearly required by the
context:

                  (a) "Actuarial Equivalent" means equality in value of the
amounts expected to be received under different forms of payment, based upon
actuarial assumptions adopted by the Committee.

                  (b) "Authorized Leave of Absence" means an absence authorized
or recognized by an Employer under its standard personnel practices.

                  (c) "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of
Hollywood Media Corp.

                  (d) "Break in Service" means a Plan Year during which an
Employee fails to complete more than 500 Hours of Service. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this subsection to the contrary, an Employee who is
reemployed following a period of Qualified Military Service shall be treated as
not having incurred a Break in Service by reason of such Qualified Military
Service.

                  (e) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
from time to time.

                  (f) "Committee" means the administrative committee of the
Plan, the establishment and responsibilities of which are set forth in Article
XIII.


<PAGE>

                  (g) "Compensation" means the total compensation paid to a
Participant during a Plan Year by the Employer before any payroll deductions
(including Deferred Participant Contributions) for taxes or insurance. In the
case of a Participant who is not a Participant for a full Plan Year, his
Compensation for that year shall be the amount received during the portion of
the year while he was a Participant. For purposes of the Plan, the Committee
shall consider only Compensation which is not in excess of the limit under
Section 401(a)(17) of the Code, as adjusted by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue ($170,000 for 2001).

                  (h) "Deferred Participant Contribution" means the amount
contributed to the Plan on behalf of a Participant in accordance with Sections
3.1 and 3.6 of this Plan.

                  (i) "Deferred Participant Contribution Account" means the
account established and maintained for a Participant in accordance with Section
3.4 of this Plan.

                  (j) "Employee" means an individual employed by the Employer.

                  (k) "Employer" means Hollywood Media Corp., a corporation
formed under the laws of the State of Florida, each Related Employer which
adopts this Plan, and each Unrelated Employer which adopts the Plan. Each
Related Employer which adopts this Plan shall be set forth in Appendix II.

                  (l) "Employer Contribution Account" means the account
established and maintained for a Participant to record the amount of the
Employer contributions allocated to his account, as well as the earnings and
profits accrued thereon.


                                      -2-
<PAGE>


                  (m) "Employer Matching Contribution" means all amounts
contributed to this Plan by the Employer in accordance with Section 4.1(a) and
(c)(1) of the Plan.

                  (n) "ERISA" means Public Law No. 93-406, the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.

                  (o) "Hour of Service" means

                        (1) each hour for which an Employee is paid or entitled
to be paid for the performance of duties for the Employer or Related Employer,

                        (2) each hour for which an Employee is paid or entitled
to be paid by the Employer or Related Employer for periods during which no
duties are performed due to vacation, holiday, illness, incapacity (including
disability), layoff, jury duty, military duty or leave of absence, and

                        (3) each hour for which back pay, irrespective of
mitigation of damages, is awarded or agreed to by the Employer or Related
Employer, if not already credited under this sentence.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, no more than 501 Hours of Service will be
credited to an Employee for any single continuous period during which the
Employee performs no duties; credit will not be given for a period for which
duties are not performed if payment is made under a plan maintained solely to
comply with applicable worker's compensation, unemployment or disability
insurance laws; and no credit shall be given for a payment which solely


                                      -3-
<PAGE>

reimburses an Employee for medical or medically related expenses incurred by the
Employee. A payment shall be deemed to be made by or due from the Employer or
Related Employer under the preceding sentence whether made by or due from the
Employer or Related Employer directly or indirectly through a trust fund,
insurer, or other entity to which the Employer or Related Employer contributes
or pays premiums, regardless of whether contributions are for the benefit of
particular employees or are on behalf of a group of employees in the aggregate.
Hours of Service shall be credited under the terms of Department of Labor
regulations Section 2530.200b-2(b) and (c). Notwithstanding the foregoing, there
shall be credited as Hours of Service solely for purposes of determining whether
a Break in Service has occurred, in the case of a Participant who is absent from
work for any period beginning on or after January 1, 1985, (i) by reason of the
pregnancy of such Participant, (ii) by reason of the birth of a child of the
Participant, (iii) by reason of the placement of a child with the Participant in
connection with the adoption of a child by the Participant, or (iv) for purposes
of caring for a child of the Participant immediately following its birth or
placement, either:

                        (1) the Hours of Service which otherwise normally would
have been credited to such Participant but for the absence, or

                        (2) if the Plan is unable to determine the number of
Hours of Service described in (1), eight hours per day of absence.



                                      -4-
<PAGE>

Pursuant to the foregoing, a Participant will be credited only with as many
Hours of Service as are necessary to prevent such Participant from incurring a
Break in Service and in no event will more than 501 Hours of Service be credited
to such Participant by reason of any one pregnancy or placement. Such Hours of
Service shall be credited to the Plan Year in which the absence begins, if such
crediting would prevent the Participant from incurring a Break in Service for
such Plan Year; otherwise, such Hours of Service shall be credited to the
immediately following Plan Year. No credit will be given with respect to any
pregnancy or placement unless the Participant files with the Committee such
information as it shall require to establish the reason for the Participant's
absence and the number of days of absence attributable to a reason for which
Hours of Service will be credited hereunder.

                  (p) "Investment Funds" means any separate funds created from
time to time by the Committee pursuant to Section 7.1 for investment of a
Participant's account.

                  (q) "Named Fiduciary" means Nicholas Hall. In addition, the
Named Fiduciary is the plan fiduciary who is responsible for maintaining the
Plan's compliance with Section 404(c) of ERISA. The Named Fiduciary's duties
shall include the provision of information available upon the request of a
Participant as provided by Section 2550.404c-1(b)(2)(I)(B)(1)(vi) of the
Department of Labor regulations.

                  (r) "Normal Retirement Age" means the date an Employee attains
age 65.


                                      -5-
<PAGE>

                  (s) "Participant" means an Employee who has become a
Participant in accordance with the requirements of Article II hereof.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, an Employee
may not become a Participant until he has completed the application described in
Section 2.3.

                  (t) "Plan" means the Hollywood Media Corp. 401(k)/Profit
Sharing Plan as set forth herein, as the same may hereafter be amended from time
to time by written resolution of the Board of Directors.

                  (u) "Plan Year" means the 12-consecutive month period ending
on each December 31.

                  (v) "Postponed Retirement Age" means the date which occurs
after a Participant's Normal Retirement Age in which the Participant separates
from the service of the Employer.

                  (w) "Qualified Employer Securities" means common stock of the
Employer.




                                      -6-
<PAGE>

                  (x) "Qualified Military Service" means service in the
uniformed services (as defined in chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code) by
an Employee of the Employer if such Employee is entitled to reemployment rights
under such chapter with respect to such service.

                  (y) "Qualified Military Service Compensation" means the
compensation a Participant would have received during a period if the
Participant were not in Qualified Military Service, determined based on the rate
of pay the Participant would have received from the Employer but for the absence
during the period of Qualified Military Service, or if the compensation the
Participant would have received was not reasonably certain, the Participant's
average compensation from the Employer during the 12-month period immediately
preceding the Qualified Military Service (or, if shorter, the period of
employment immediately preceding the Qualified Military Service).

                  (z) "Related Employer" means (i) any corporation on and after
the date that it, together with the Employer, is a member of a controlled group
of corporations as described in Section 414(b) of the Code; (ii) any other trade
or business (whether or not incorporated) on and after the date that it and the
Employer are under common control as described in Section 414(c) of the Code;
and (iii) any organization (whether or not incorporated) on and after the date
that it, together with the Employer, is a member of an affiliated group of
employers as described in Section 414(m) of the Code.

                  (aa) "Totally and Permanently Disabled" A Participant shall be
considered totally and permanently disabled hereunder if he has a condition
which results in the Participant's total and permanent inability to meet the
requirements of the Participant's customary employment which can be expected to
last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months. The Committee may
require such proof of disability as will be satisfactory to it.

                  (ab) "Trust Agreement" means the agreement entered into by the
Employer and the Trustee with respect to holding and administering the Trust
Fund for the Plan.



                                      -7-
<PAGE>

                  (ac) "Trust Fund" means the fund which shall consist of
contributions of this Plan or prior plans and each other plan merged into the
Plan, and all investment income thereon.

                  (ad)"Trustee" means Nicholas Hall, or any successor.

                  (ae) "Unrelated Employer "means each employer which adopts
this Plan and which is not a Related Employer. Each Unrelated Employer shall be
set forth on Appendix II.

                  (af) "Valuation Date" means the last day of each Plan Year.

                  (ag) "Year of Service" means each Plan Year in which a
Participant completes not less than 1,000 Hours of Service. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, for purposes of Article II, a Year of Service means an Employee's
completion of not less than 1,000 Hours of Service during a 12-month period of
employment with the Employer, beginning on the date that his employment
commenced or the first day of any Plan Year thereafter.

                            ARTICLE II - ELIGIBILITY
                            ------------------------

         Section 2.1 Eligibility Requirements. Any Employee in the employ of the
Employer as of January 1, 2001 shall become a Participant as of January 1, 2001.
The participation of any other Employee shall commence on the first day of the
month next succeeding the Employee's completion of one Year of Service and
attainment of age 18. This Section 2.1 is subject to the requirement pertaining
to the completion of the application described in Section 2.3.

                                      -8-
<PAGE>

         Section 2.2 Reemployment. Any person who leaves the Employer's service
after becoming eligible to participate shall again become a Participant upon his
return to the Employer's service.

         Section 2.3 Election to Make Deferred Participant Contributions. Any
Participant may make Deferred Participant Contributions by filing an application
with and in the form prescribed by the Committee. The application shall (a)
state the percentage, within the limits set forth in Section 3.1 and Section 3.6
of this Plan, of the Participant's Compensation which he desires to have reduced
and contributed by the Employer to the Plan, (b) contain a statement that the
Participant is familiar with the Plan and the rules governing withdrawals from
the Plan as set forth in Article X of the Plan, (c) authorize Deferred
Participant Contributions in accordance with Section 3.1 and 3.6, and (d) be
signed by the Participant. The Committee will promptly process the application
and notify the Participant in writing of its acceptance or nonacceptance
thereof.

                  ARTICLE III - PARTICIPANT CONTRIBUTIONS
                  ----------------------------------------

         Section 3.1 Amount of Contribution. Each Participant may initially
authorize the Employer to reduce his Compensation by an amount equal from 1% to
15% of his Compensation and to make Deferred Participant Contributions under the
Plan in an equal amount on his behalf; provided, however, that the Deferred


                                      -9-
<PAGE>

Participant Contributions made on behalf of a Participant in a Plan Year shall
not exceed the limit under Section 402(g) of the Code ($10,500 for 2001),
adjusted for each Plan Year to take into account any cost-of-living increase
adjustment provided for such Plan Year under Section 402(g)(5) of the Code. The
rate of Deferred Participant Contributions made on behalf of a highly
compensated Employee may, from time to time, be (1) reduced by the Employer to
comply with the limitations set forth in Article V, or (2) increased by the
Employer to permit the highly compensated Employee to make Deferred Participant
Contributions up to the maximum limits set forth in Article V.

         Section 3.2 Change of Rate of Contribution. A Participant may elect to
change his rate of Deferred Participant Contributions, within the limits
specified hereinabove, as of any pay date. The Participant's election to change
his rate of Deferred Participant Contributions must be made in writing to the
Committee, on a form provided by the Committee, within the time limit prescribed
by the Committee.

         Section 3.3 Suspension of Contribution. A Participant may elect to
suspend Deferred Participant Contributions by means of written notice to the
Committee, on a form provided by the Committee. The Participant may, in the same
manner as provided under Section 3.2, elect to resume Deferred Participant
Contributions as of any pay date succeeding the suspension period which the
Participant elected to suspend Deferred Participant Contributions. Deferred
Participant Contributions shall be automatically suspended for any period during
which a Participant is not an Employee.


                                      -10-
<PAGE>

         Section 3.4 Payment of Contribution. Deferred Participant Contributions
for any Plan Year shall be paid to the Trustee monthly to the extent practicable
and in any event within one year after the end of such Plan Year. All Deferred
Participant Contributions, when received by the Trustee, shall be credited to
the respective Deferred Participant Contribution Accounts of the Participants.
Such contributions shall be paid, without interest, in cash.

         Section 3.5 Transfer from Qualified Plans.

                  (a) Any Employee, whether or not a Participant, may contribute
to this Plan an amount consisting of an eligible rollover distribution or
transfer from a conduit IRA, provided that the contribution shall not jeopardize
the tax-exempt status of the Plan or Trust Fund or create adverse tax
consequences for the Employer.

                  (b) Any such contribution shall be maintained, for accounting
purposes only, as a separate subdivision (the Participant's "Rollover Account")
within his individual account and shall at all times be fully vested and
nonforfeitable. Such Rollover Account shall be commingled, for investment
purposes only, and invested in the investment options selected by the
Participant on a form provided by the Committee. If the Participant fails to
make such an election, his account shall be invested at the same percentage
amounts as selected by the Participant in accordance with Section 7.2 with
respect to his individual account.


                                      -11-
<PAGE>

                  (c) For purposes of this Section, an eligible rollover
distribution or transfer from a conduit individual retirement account or annuity
means:

                        (1) an eligible rollover distribution, within the
meaning of Section 402 of the Code, which is transferred to this Plan by the
Participant no later than sixty (60) days following the day on which the
Participant received the distributed amount;

                        (2) an eligible rollover distribution, within the
meaning of Section 402 of the Code, which is transferred to this Plan directly
by another qualified trust at the Participant's direction; or

                        (3) an amount transferred to this Plan, within sixty
(60) days of the Participant's receipt of a distribution thereof, from an
individual retirement account or annuity that has no assets other than assets
(together with earnings thereon) which were previously distributed to the
Participant as an eligible rollover distribution and which were deposited in
such conduit individual retirement account or annuity within sixty (60) days of
such previous distribution. For purposes of an eligible rollover distribution
described in (1) above, the Participant may contribute an amount equal to the
gross amount of the distribution, notwithstanding that a portion of the
distribution may have been withheld for taxes.



                                      -12-
<PAGE>

         Section 3.6 Additional Participant Contributions Following Qualified
Military Service.

                  (a) The following definitions apply to this Section:

                        (1) "Additional Deferral Period" means the period which
begins on the date of the Participant's reemployment with the Employer following
the period of Qualified Military Service. The duration of the Additional
Deferral Period equals the lesser of (i) five years, or (ii) three multiplied by
the length of the period of Qualified Military Service.

                        (2) "Maximum Additional Deferral" means the maximum
amount of Deferred Participant Contributions that the Participant would have
been permitted to make under the Plan, without the limits set forth in Section
5.2, during the period of Qualified Military Service if the Participant had
continued to be employed by the Employer during such period and received
Qualified Military Service Compensation during such period. The Maximum
Additional Deferral shall be reduced by the Deferred Participant Contributions
made during the period of Qualified Military Service.

                  (b) A Participant who is reemployed by the Employer following
a period of Qualified Military Service may, during the Additional Deferral
Period, authorize the Employer to reduce his Compensation by an amount not in
excess of the Maximum Additional Deferral and to make additional Deferred
Participant Contributions under the Plan in an equal amount on his behalf.



                                      -13-
<PAGE>

                       ARTICLE IV - EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS
                       -----------------------------------

         Section 4.1 Employer Contributions.

                  (a) For each Plan Year, the Employer may make contributions to
the Trust Fund for certain Participants who have elected to make Deferred
Participant Contributions. The amount of the Employer's Matching Contribution
shall be determined by the Employer.

                  (b) For each Plan Year, the Employer may make contributions on
behalf of all Participants without regard to whether a Participant has elected
to make Deferred Participant Contributions. The amount contributed hereunder
shall be determined by the Employer.

                  (c) The Employer shall make a contribution on behalf of a
Participant who is reemployed by the Employer following a period of Qualified
Military Service which is determined as follows:

                        (1) For each Plan Year during which a Participant
performed Qualified Military Service, the Employer shall make an additional
Employer Matching Contribution with respect to additional Deferred Participant
Contributions made pursuant to Section 3.6 which would have been required
pursuant to Section 4.1(a) had such Participant continued to be employed by the
Employer and received Qualified Military Service Compensation during such period
and had such additional Deferred Participant Contributions been made during the
period of Qualified Military Service; and

                        (2) if the Employer made a contribution pursuant to


                                      -14-
<PAGE>

Section 4.1(b) with regard to a Plan Year during which a Participant performed
Qualified Military Service, the Employer shall make a contribution on such
Participant's behalf in an amount equal to the contribution which would have
been made on such Participant's behalf pursuant to Section 4.1(b) had such
Participant continued to be employed by the Employer and received Qualified
Military Service Compensation during such period.

         Section 4.2 Payment of Contributions. Employer contributions shall be
paid directly by the Employer to the Trustee. The Employer may pay its
contribution for any Plan Year on any date or dates, provided, however, that the
total amount of the Employer contribution for any taxable year shall be paid in
full not later than the time prescribed by law for filing the Employer's Federal
income tax return for the taxable year, including extensions thereof. At the
time of payment of any Employer Contribution, the Trustee shall be advised as to
the manner in which the allocation provided for in Section 4.4 is to be made.

         Section 4.3 Return of Contributions. Amounts contributed by the
Employer may revert to the Employer under the following circumstances:

                  (a) If the contribution is made under a mistake of fact, such
contribution may be returned to the Employer within one year after the payment
of the contribution.

                  (b) Since all contributions are conditioned upon deductibility
of the contribution under Section 404 of the Code, a contribution shall be
returned to the Employer, to the extent disallowed, within one year after the
disallowance of the deduction.


                                      -15-
<PAGE>

The amount which may be returned to the Employer is the excess of: (a) the
amount contributed over (b) the amount that would have been contributed had
there not occurred a mistake of fact or a mistake in determining the deduction.
Earnings attributable to the excess contribution may not be returned to the
Employer, but losses attributable thereto must reduce the amount to be so
returned. Further, if the withdrawal of the amount attributable to the mistaken
contribution would cause the balance of the account of any Participant to be
reduced to less than the balance which would have been in the account had the
mistaken amount not been contributed, then the amount to be returned to the
Employer will be limited so as to avoid such reduction.

         Section 4.4 Allocation of Employer Contributions. Employer Matching
Contributions shall be allocated only to those Participants who have elected to
make Deferred Participant Contributions. Employer Matching Contributions shall
be allocated among Participants in the proportion that each such Participant's
contributions paid into the Plan during the Plan Year for which the contribution
is made bears to such contributions made on behalf of all Participants during
said Plan Year, provided that Participant Contributions in excess of 8% of
Compensation shall not be considered.

Contributions made pursuant to Section 4.1(b) shall be allocated to Participants
based on the proportion that such Participant's Compensation bears to the
aggregate Compensation of all Participants for such Plan Year. Notwithstanding


                                      -16-
<PAGE>

the foregoing, contributions in accordance with Section 4.1(b) shall be
allocated to each Participant for a Plan Year, provided the Participant
completes at least 500 Hours of Service with the Employer during such Plan Year.

Notwithstanding anything in this Section 4.4 to the contrary, contributions
pursuant to Section 4.1(c) shall be allocated to that Participant's Employer
Contribution Account.

                      ARTICLE V - CONTRIBUTION LIMITATIONS
                      ------------------------------------

         Section 5.1 Definitions. For purposes of this Article V, the following
terms shall have the meanings set forth below.

                        (a) Effective for Plan Years beginning after December
31, 1996, the "Actual Deferral Percentage" for Highly Compensated Employees and
Non-highly Compensated Employees for a Plan Year is the average of the ratios,
calculated separately for each Participant in such group, of (1) the amount of
Deferred Participant Contributions credited to such Participant's Deferred
Participant Contribution Account to (2) such Participant's Compensation. For the
purpose of determining the amount credited to a Participant's Deferred
Participant Contribution Account, the Committee may elect to include, pursuant
to Treasury regulations, elective deferrals (as defined in Section 402(g)(3)(A)
of the Code) and qualified nonelective contributions (as defined in Section
401(m)(4)(C) of the Code) contributed to any plan maintained by the Employer and
matching contributions (as defined in Section 401(m)(4)(A) of the Code) which
are treated




                                      -17-
<PAGE>

as elective contributions. Notwithstanding any provision of this Section 5.1(a)
to the contrary, additional Deferred Participant Contributions made on a
Participant's behalf pursuant to Section 3.6 shall not be included in the
calculation of an Employee's Actual Deferral Percentage and a Participant who is
re-employed by the Employer following a period of Qualified Military Service
shall not be considered, for purposes of this Section 5.1(a), to have been a
Participant during the period of Qualified Military Service.

                  (b) "Annual Addition" is the sum of the following credited to
a Participant's account for any Limitation Year:

                        (1) the Employer's contributions;
                        (2) the Employee's contributions;
                        (3) forfeitures; and
                        (4) any amount attributable to medical benefits which is
allocated to an account established for such Participant pursuant to Section
419A(d)(1) of the Code and the Employer's contribution, if any, allocated to
such Participant's individual medical benefit account established under a
defined benefit plan as described in Section 415(l) of the Code. Notwithstanding
any provision of this Section 5.1(b) to the contrary, Annual Addition includes
any additional Deferred Participant Contributions made pursuant to Section 3.6
and any Employer contributions made pursuant to Sections 4.1(c), 5.3(c), and
19.3 which are attributable to a Participant's performance of Qualified Military
Service, in the Limitation Year to which such contributions relate.




                                      -18-
<PAGE>

                  (c) Effective for Plan Years beginning after December 31,
1996, the "Contribution Percentage" for Highly Compensated Employees and
Non-highly Compensated Employees for a Plan Year is the average of the ratios,
calculated separately for each Participant in such group, of (1) the amount of
Employer Matching Contributions which are contributed to the Plan on behalf of
each Participant for such Plan Year to (2) such Participant's Compensation. For
the purpose of determining the Contribution Percentage, the Committee may elect
pursuant to Treasury regulations to take into account elective deferrals (as
defined in Section 402(g)(3)(A) of the Code) and qualified non-elective
contributions (as defined in Section 401(m)(4)(C) of the Code) contributed to
any plan maintained by the Employer. Notwithstanding any provision of this
Section 5.1(c) to the contrary, additional Employer Matching Contributions made
pursuant to Section 4.1(c)(1) shall not be included in the calculation of an
Employee's Contribution Percentage and a Participant who is re-employed by the
Employer following a period of Qualified Military Service shall not be
considered, for purposes of this Section 5.1(c), to have been a Participant
during the period of Qualified Military Service.

                  (d) Effective January 1, 1997, a "Highly Compensated Employee"
shall mean an Employee who (i) was a 5% owner as defined in section 416(i) of
the Code at any time during the year or the preceding year, or (ii) received


                                      -19-
<PAGE>

Compensation for the preceding year in excess of $80,000 or the amount then in
effect under section 414(q) of the Code.

                  (e) "Limitation Year" is the Plan Year.

                  (f) A "Non-highly Compensated Employee" is a

Participant who is not a Highly Compensated Employee.

         Section 5.2 Actual Deferral Percentage Tests.

                  (a) Effective for Plan Years beginning after December 31,
1996, the Actual Deferral Percentage for the group of Highly Compensated
Employees shall not exceed the greater of:

                        (1) 125% of such percentage for the group of Non-highly
Compensated Employees for the preceding Plan Year; or

                        (2) The lesser of 200% of such percentage for the group
of Non-highly Compensated Employees for the preceding Plan Year, or such
percentage for the Non-highly Compensated Employee group for the preceding Plan
Year plus 2 percentage points (or such lesser amount determined pursuant to
Treasury regulations to prevent the multiple use of this alternative limitation
with respect to any Highly Compensated Employee).

                  (b) For the purpose of this Section, if two or more plans
which include cash or deferred arrangements are considered one plan for the
purposes of Sections 401(a)(4) or 410(b) of the Code, the cash or deferred
arrangements included in such plans shall be treated as one arrangement.

                  (c) For the purposes of this Section, if a Highly Compensated
Employee is a participant under two or more cash or deferred arrangements of the
Employer or a Related Employer, all such cash or deferred arrangements shall be
treated as one


                                      -20-
<PAGE>

cash or deferred arrangement for the purpose of determining the Actual Deferral
Percentage with respect to such Highly Compensated Employee.

                  (d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the determination and
treatment of the amount and the Actual Deferral Percentage of any Employee or
group of Employees, including the adjustments made to meet the Actual Deferral
Percentage tests pursuant to Section 5.3, shall satisfy such other requirements
as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury.

                  (e) For the purpose of the foregoing tests and Section 5.3,
those Employees who were not eligible to have Deferred Participant Contributions
made for them at any time during the Plan Year shall be disregarded.

         Section 5.3 Adjustment for Actual Deferral Percentage Tests. The
Committee shall have the responsibility of determining the extent, if any, to
which the Actual Deferral Percentage tests may not be met. If, in the discretion
of the Committee, it is determined that the Deferred Participant Contributions
made by Participants pursuant to Section 3.1 do not satisfy one of the tests in
Section 5.2(a), then the Committee may, with the approval of the Employer, take
action in accordance with one or, in accordance with Treasury regulations, a
combination of the options set forth below:

                  (a) A portion of the Employer contributions made on behalf of
Participants who are Non-highly Compensated Employees shall, within 2 1/2months
after the end of the Plan Year,



                                      -21-
<PAGE>

be deemed fully vested and non-forfeitable. Such portion shall be reallocated to
the Participant's Deferred Participant Contribution Account.

                  (b) Any excess Deferred Participant Contributions for each
Highly Compensated Employee shall be distributed to him, along with allocable
investment income, prior to the end of the Plan Year after the excess is
contributed. Effective for Plan Years beginning after December 31, 1996, the
excess Deferred Participant Contributions shall be determined in a fashion such
the Deferred Participant Contributions of the Highly Compensated Employee(s) who
made the largest Deferred Participant Contributions shall first be lowered to
the level of the Highly Compensated Employee(s) who made the next to the largest
Deferred Participant Contributions. If further overall reductions are required
to achieve compliance with the tests contained in Section 5.2, Deferred
Participant Contributions of both of the above groups will be lowered to the
level of the Highly Compensated Employee(s) who made the next largest Deferred
Participant Contributions, and so on continuing until sufficient total
reductions have occurred to achieve compliance with one of the tests contained
in Section 5.2.

                  (c) The Employer shall make, within 12 months after the end of
the Plan Year, a contribution on behalf of Participants who are Non-highly
Compensated Employees.


                                      -22-
<PAGE>

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary,
such contribution shall be fully vested and nonforfeitable and shall be
allocated to the Deferred Participant Contribution Account of each Participant
who is a Non-highly Compensated Employee in the same proportion that each such
Participant's Deferred Participant Contributions for the year bears to the total
Deferred Participant Contributions made during the year by all Participants who
are Non-highly Compensated Employees. The Employer shall contribute to the
Deferred Participant Account of each Participant who is re-employed following a
period of Qualified Military Service an amount which would have been contributed
under this Section 5.3(c) had such Participant continued to be employed by the
Employer and received Qualified Military Service Compensation during such period
and had the additional Deferred Participant Contributions made under Section 3.6
been made during the period of Qualified Military Service.

         Section 5.4 Maximum Contribution Percentage Tests.

                  (a) Effective for Plan Years beginning after December 31,
1996, the "Contribution Percentage" for each Plan Year for the group of Highly
Compensated Employees shall not exceed the greater of:

                        (1) 125% of such percentage for the group of Non-highly
Compensated Employees for the preceding Plan Year; or

                        (2) The lesser of 200% of such percentage for the group
of Non-highly Compensated Employees for the preceding Plan Year, or such
percentage for the Non-highly Compensated Employee group for the preceding Plan
Year plus 2 percentage points (or such lesser amount determined pursuant to


                                      -23-
<PAGE>

Treasury regulations to prevent the multiple use of this alternative limitation
with respect to any Highly Compensated Employee).

                  (b) For purposes of this Section, if two or more plans of the
Employer to which Employee contributions or elective deferrals are made, are
treated as one plan for purposes of Sections 401(a)(4) or 410(b) of the Code,
such plans shall be treated as one plan for purposes of this Section 5.4.

                  (c) If a Highly Compensated Employee participates in two or
more plans maintained by the Employer or a Related Employer to which
contributions are made to which Section 401(m) of the Code applies, then all
such contributions shall be aggregated for purposes of this Section. However,
any contributions which are taken into account for purposes of the
nondiscrimination tests in Section 5.2 for any Plan Year shall not be taken into
account for purposes of this Section 5.4 for such year.

                  (d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the determination and
treatment of the Contribution Percentage of any Employee or group of Employees,
including the adjustments made to meet the Contribution Percentage tests
pursuant to Section 5.5, shall satisfy such other requirements as may be
prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury.

                  (e) For the purpose of the foregoing tests and Section 5.5,
those Employees who were not eligible to have Employer Matching Contributions
made for them at any time during the Plan Year shall be disregarded.


                                      -24-
<PAGE>

         Section 5.5 Adjustment for Excessive Contribution Percentage. The
Committee shall have the responsibility of determining the extent, if any, to
which the Contribution Percentage tests may not be met. If, in the discretion of
the Committee, it is determined that Employer Matching Contributions do not
satisfy one of the tests in Section 5.4(a), then the Employer may make
additional contributions for allocated to Employer Matching Contribution
Accounts for whom Employer Matching Contributions would have been made under
Sections 4.1(a) or 4.1(c)(1) for the Plan Year if they had authorized Deferred
Participant Contributions. Any excess Employer Matching Contributions for each
Highly Compensated employee shall be distributed to him. Effective for Plan
Years beginning after December 31, 1996, the excess Employer Matching
Contributions shall be determined in a fashion such that the Employer Matching
Contribution of the Highly Compensated Employee(s) who received the highest
Employer Matching Contribution shall be lowered to the level of the Highly
Compensated Employee(s) who received the next to the highest Employer Matching
Contribution. If further overall reductions are required to achieve compliance
with the tests contained in Section 5.4(a), the Employer Matching Contributions
of both of the above individuals will be lowered to the level of the next
highest Highly Compensated Employee(s), and so on continuing until sufficient
total reductions have occurred to achieve compliance with one of the tests
contained in Section 5.4(a).

         Section 5.6 Multiple Employer Non-discrimination Testing.
Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, Sections 5.1, 5.2,
5.3, 5.4 and 5.5 shall be applied separately for Hollywood Media Corp. and any


                                      -25-
<PAGE>

other "related" or "unrelated" employer. For purposes of this Section 5.6, the
term related employer means (i) any corporation on and after the date that it,
together with the Employer, is a member of a controlled group of corporations as
described in Section 414(b) of the Code; (ii) any other trade or business
(whether or not incorporated) on and after the date that it and the Employer are
under common control as described in Section 414(c) of the Code; and (iii) any
organization (whether or not incorporated) on and after the date that it,
together with the Employer, is a member of an affiliated group of employers as
described in Section 414(m) of the Code. For purposes of this Section 5.6, the
term unrelated employer means each employer which adopts this Plan and who is
not a related employer. Each unrelated employer shall be set forth in Appendix
II.

         Section 5.7 Limitation on Contributions on Behalf of Individual
Employees.

                  (a) General Limitation. Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Plan, the Annual Addition in any Limitation Year to the account of a
Participant, when added to any Annual Additions on behalf of the Participant
under any other defined contribution plans maintained by the Employer, may not
exceed the lesser of: (1) $30,000; or (2) 25% of that Participant's Compensation
received from the Employer for the Limitation Year with respect to which the
Annual Addition is made.



                                      -26-
<PAGE>

                  (b) Limitation Adjustment. The rate of Annual Additions to a
Participant's account will be frozen or reduced to a level necessary to prevent
the limitations of this Section from being exceeded with respect to any
Participant. If the limitations applicable to any Participant in accordance with
this Section 5.6 would be exceeded, the contributions made by or on behalf of a
Participant under the Plan shall be reduced in the following order, but only to
the extent necessary to meet the limitations: (i) Deferred Participant
Contributions pursuant to Sections 3.1 and 3.6, (ii) Employer Matching
Contributions pursuant to Section 4.1(a) and (c)(1) and (iii) Employer
Contributions pursuant to Section 4.1(b) and (c)(2). In the event that,
notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.6, the limitations
with respect to Annual Additions prescribed hereunder are exceeded with respect
to any Participant and such excess, arises as a consequence of an error or
mistake of fact, the Committee shall determine which portion, if any, of such
excess amount is attributable to the Participant's Deferred Participant
Contributions, Employer Matching Contributions, and Employer Contributions and
shall take the following appropriate steps to correct such violation:

                        (i) Participant Deferred Contributions and earnings
thereon shall be paid to the Participant as soon as is administratively
feasible. Any Employer Matching Contributions (excluding Employer Matching
Contributions that are distributed or forfeited pursuant to Section 5.4 or the
multiple use test contained in Treasury regulation Section 1.401(m)-2 that such


                                      -27-
<PAGE>

Highly Compensated Employee has received on account of his excess Before-tax
Contributions shall be forfeited.

                        (ii) The Employer Matching Contribution portion and the
Employer Contribution portion of such excess shall each be held in a suspense
account and, if such Participant remains a Participant, shall be used to reduce
Employer Matching Contributions pursuant to Section 4.1(a) and (c)(1) and
Employer Contributions pursuant to Section 4.1(b) and (c)(2), in that order, for
each Participant for the succeeding Plan Years, and, if such Participant ceases
participating in the Plan, shall be used to reduce Employer Matching
Contribution pursuant to Section 4.1(a) and (c)(1) and Employer Contributions
pursuant to Section 4.1(b) and (c)(2), in that order, for all Participants in
the Plan Year in which he ceases to be a Participant and succeeding Plan Years,
as necessary.

In the event that the Employer maintains another defined contribution plan, and
the limitations of this Section will be exceeded with respect to any Participant
upon considering the two defined contribution plans as one plan, the Annual
Additions to this Plan shall be frozen or reduced to prevent any such excess.

                  (c) Single Plan Rule. For purposes of this Section, all
defined contribution plans (whether or not terminated) of the Employer are to be
treated as one defined contribution plan.

                  (d) Employer. For purposes of this Section, "Employer" means
the Employer and all "related employers" as defined in Section 415(h) of the
Code.


                                      -28-
<PAGE>

                      ARTICLE VI - ADMINISTRATION OF FUNDS
                      ------------------------------------

         Section 6.1 Appointment of Trustee. A Trustee shall be appointed to
hold, invest, reinvest and distribute the Trust Fund created hereunder in
accordance with the provisions of a Trust Agreement to be executed in
conjunction with the adoption of this Plan. The Trustee shall provide a
procedure for establishing and carrying out a funding policy and method
consistent with the objectives of the Plan. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary, the Trustee is permitted to invest 100% of the assets of the Plan
which are attributable to Employer Contributions in Qualified Employer
Securities.

         Section 6.2 Payment of Plan Expenses. To the extent not paid from the
Trust Fund, the Employer shall pay the reasonable compensation and expenses of
the Trustee and all other expenses incurred in the administration of this Plan.

         Section 6.3 Participants' Accounts. The Trustee shall maintain an
account in the name of each Participant and shall keep such other records
relating to Participants' rights and benefits as may be requested by the
Committee.

         Section 6.4 Valuation of the Investment Funds. Each Investment Fund
shall be valued by the Trustee at market value as of the close of business on
the Valuation Date and as of such other dates as the Committee may direct. For
the purpose of such valuation, all contributions made during the Plan Year
quarter (January 1, April 1, July 1, or October 1) ending on the Valuation Date
shall be included. For the purpose of determining the value of the accounts of
Participants who have died or whose employment has otherwise terminated, a


                                      -29-
<PAGE>

similar valuation of a Participant's account may be made subsequent to the most
recent Valuation Date. On the basis of each valuation, the net increase or net
decrease in the market value of the each Investment Fund since the preceding
Valuation Date shall be ascertained. For this purpose, "net increase" or "net
decrease" shall mean the profits and income realized, less the losses and
expenses incurred, plus any net increase or minus any net decrease in the value
of the assets of the Participant's account.

         Section 6.5 Valuation of the Trust Fund. The Trust Fund, exclusive of
the Investment Funds, shall be valued by the Trustee monthly at market value as
of the close of business on the Valuation Date and as of such other dates as the
Committee may direct. For the purpose of such valuation, the Employer's
Contribution and all contributions by Participants for the Plan Year quarter
(January 1, April 1, July 1, or October 1) ending on the Valuation Date shall
not be included. For the purpose of determining the value of the accounts of
Participants who have died or whose employment has otherwise terminated, a
similar valuation of the Trust Fund may be made subsequent to the most recent
Valuation Date. On the basis of each valuation, the net increase or net decrease
in the market value of the Trust Fund since the preceding Valuation Date shall
be ascertained. For this purpose, "net increase" or "net decrease" shall mean
the profits and income realized, less the losses and expenses incurred, plus any
net increase or minus any net decrease in the value of the assets of the Trust
Fund.


                                      -30-
<PAGE>

         Section 6.6 Allocation of Increase or Decrease In Value of Investment
Fund. The net increase or net decrease in the market value of the Investment
Funds as calculated under Section 6.4 on any Valuation Date shall be allocated
proportionately among the accounts of the Participants and beneficiaries who had
unpaid balances in their accounts on the Valuation Date. Such allocation shall
be made by the Trustee on the basis of the amounts credited to the respective
Participants' and beneficiaries' accounts immediately prior to the valuation.

         Section 6.7 Allocation of Changes in Trust Fund Value. The net increase
or net decrease in the market value of the Trust Fund, exclusive of the
Investment Funds, as calculated under Section 6.5 on any Valuation Date shall be
allocated among the accounts of the Participants. Such allocation shall be in
the proportion that the value of each Participant's account as of the
immediately preceding Valuation Date (after reducing such account for any
forfeiture or distribution) bears to the total value of the accounts of all
Participants as of such date.

                     ARTICLE VII - INVESTMENT OF TRUST FUNDS
                     ---------------------------------------

         Section 7.1 Investment Funds. The Committee may divide a Participant's
account into three or more Investment Funds. Each Investment Fund shall be
described in the Appendix I. Any Investment Fund may, on an interim basis, be
invested, in whole or in part, in cash equivalents. In addition to the
Investment Funds listed on Appendix I, the Committee may invest all or a portion
of a Participant's Employer Contribution Account in Qualified Employer
Securities.

         Section 7.2 Investment Elections. A Participant's account shall be


                                      -31-
<PAGE>

invested, collectively with investment gains and losses allocated on a pro-rata
basis, in one or more of the Investment Funds as selected by the Participant on
a form provided by the Committee. If a Participant fails to make such an
election, his account shall be invested as disclosed on the investment election
forms.

         Section 7.3 Changing an Investment Election. A Participant may, at the
time permitted by the Committee, change his investment election. Each investment
election shall be made by filing the appropriate election form in the manner and
within the time limits prescribed in Appendix I. The foregoing shall be subject
to such additional limitations and restrictions as the Committee may, from time
to time, establish.

                       ARTICLE VIII - PAYMENT OF BENEFITS
                       ----------------------------------

         Section 8.1 Retirement Benefits. At the Participant's election, as of
the first day of the month following the date the Participant becomes (1)
Totally and Permanently Disabled, or (2) attains age 59 1/2, the vested amount
credited to such Participant's account, based upon the value of the Trust Fund
as of the Valuation Date coincident with or next succeeding said date, plus the
Participant's share of the Employer's contribution, if any, for the month then
ending shall be applied for his benefit. Payment shall be made in the form of a
single sum.

Notwithstanding any distribution option offered by the Plan, all distributions
made to Participants or their beneficiaries shall be made in accordance with


                                      -32-
<PAGE>

Section 401(a)(9) of the Code and the regulations thereunder, including the
minimum distribution incidental benefit requirements of Section 1.401(a)(9)-2 of
the proposed Treasury regulations.

         Section 8.2 Limitations Regarding Time of Payment of Benefits.

                  (a) Elective Limitation. The payment of benefits authorized
under the Plan shall commence no later than the 60th day after the close of the
Plan Year in which the later of the following occurs:

                        (1) the date the Participant attains his Normal
Retirement Age;

                        (2) the 10th anniversary of the year in which the
Participant commenced participation; or

                        (3) the date of the Participant's termination of service
with the Employer.

                  (b) Mandatory Limitation. Notwithstanding subsection (a), and
except as provided in the following sentence, the entire interest of a
Participant will be, or shall begin to be, distributed not later than April 1
following the Plan Year in which he attains age 70 1/2. Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence, effective January 1, 1997, the entire interest of a
Participant who is not at any time a 5% owner, shall be, or begin to be,
distributed not later than April 1 of the calendar year following the calendar
year in which he attains age 70 1/2 or retires, whichever is later. For this
purpose, a "5% Owner" means a person who owns, or is considered as owning under


                                      -33-
<PAGE>

Section 318 of the Code, more than 5% of the outstanding stock of the Employer
or stock possessing more than 5% of the total combined voting power of all stock
of the Employer.

         Section 8.3 Trustee to Trustee Transfer.

                  (a) With respect to any distribution from this Plan (other
than a distribution, or portion thereof, that is not an eligible rollover
distribution within the meaning of Section 401(a)(31)(C) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended ("Code"), the distributee thereof shall, in accordance
with procedures established by the Trustee, be afforded the opportunity to
direct that such distribution be paid to the trustee of an eligible retirement
plan ("Direct Transfer Option"). For purposes of the foregoing sentence, an
"eligible retirement plan" has the meaning within Section 402(c)(8) of the Code.
However, in the case of an eligible rollover distribution to the surviving
spouse, an eligible retirement plan is an individual retirement amount or
individual retirement annuity described in Sections 408(a) and 408(b),
respectively.

                  (b) The Trustee shall, within a reasonable period of time
prior to making any eligible rollover distribution from this Plan, provide a
written explanation to the distributee of the Direct Transfer Option, if
applicable, as well as the provisions under which such distribution will not be
subject to tax if transferred to an eligible retirement plan within 60 days
after the date on which the distributee received the distribution.



                                      -34-
<PAGE>

                  (c) "Eligible rollover distribution" means any distribution of
all or any portion of the balance to the credit of the distributee, except that
an eligible rollover distribution does not include: any distribution that is one
of a series of substantially equal periodic payments (not less frequently than
annually) made for the life (or life expectancy) of the distributee or the joint
lives (or joint life expectancies) of the distributee and the distributee's
designated beneficiary, or for a specified period of ten years or more; any
distribution to the extent such distribution is required under Section 401(a)(9)
of the Code; and the portion of any distribution that is not includible in gross
income (determined without regard to the exclusion for net unrealized
appreciation with respect to employer securities).

         Section 8.4 Withholding of Income Tax.

                  (a) Notification of Withholding of Federal Income Tax. All
Participants and beneficiaries entitled to receive benefits under the Plan shall
be notified of the Plan's obligation to withhold federal income tax from any
benefits payable pursuant to the terms of the Plan. Such notice shall be in
writing, and shall contain the information set forth in subsection (b) of this
Section.

                  (b) Content of the Notice. The notice required by subsection
(a) shall, at a minimum:



                                      -35-
<PAGE>

                        (1) with respect to any distribution which is an
eligible rollover distribution within the meaning of Section 3405(c)(3) of the
Code, advise the payee that there shall be withheld from such distribution an
amount equal to 20 percent thereof (or such other amount as may from time to
time be prescribed by the Code, or the Secretary of the Treasury or his
delegate), unless the payee directs the Trustee to pay such distribution to an
eligible retirement plan, within the meaning of Section 8.3(a) hereof, in
accordance with such procedures as the Trustee may prescribe (a "transfer
direction"),

                        (2) with respect to any distribution which is not an
eligible rollover distribution within the meaning of Section 3405(c)(3) of the
Code:

                              (A) advise the payee of his right to elect not to
have withholding apply to any payment or distribution and explain the manner in
which such election may be made, and include or indicate the source of any forms
necessary to make the election;

                              (B) advise the payee that penalties may be
incurred under the estimated tax payment rules if the payee's payments of
estimated tax are not adequate and sufficient tax is not withheld from payments
under this Plan; and

                              (C) advise the payee that the election not to have
federal income tax withheld from benefits is prospective only and that any
election made after a payment or distribution to the payee is not an election
with respect to such payment or distribution.



                                      -36-
<PAGE>

                  (a) Failure to Make Election.

                        (1) In the case of an eligible rollover distribution, if
the payee fails to provide the Trustee with a withholding certificate, the
Trustee shall withhold an amount equal to 20% of the amount of the distribution
(or such other amount as may be from time to time prescribed by the Code, or the
Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate).

                        (2) In the case of a distribution which is not an
eligible rollover distribution, if the payee fails to provide Trustee with a
withholding certificate, the Trustee shall withhold an amount equal to 20% of
the amount of the distribution (or such other amount as may be from time to time
prescribed by the Code, or the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate).

                  (b) Coordination with the Code and Regulations.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Trustee shall discharge its withholding and
notice obligations in accordance with the Code and regulations and such other
guidance with respect thereto as may be promulgated from time to time by the
Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate.

         Section 8.5 Waiver of Notice Requirements. Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions of Sections 8.3 and 8.4, if a distribution is made under
the Plan, such distribution may commence less than 30 days after the notice
required under Section 1.411(a)-11(c) of the Treasury regulations is given,
provided that:


                                      -37-
<PAGE>

                  (1) the plan administrator clearly informs the Participant
that the Participant has a right to a period of at least thirty (30) days after
receiving the notice to consider the decision of whether or not to elect a
distribution or a particular distribution option, and

                  (2) the Participant, after receiving such notice,
affirmatively elects a distribution.

         Section 8.6 Location of Participant or Beneficiary Unknown.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event
that all, or any portion, of the distribution payable to a Participant or his
beneficiary hereunder shall, at the expiration of five (5) years after it shall
become payable, remain unpaid solely by reason of the inability of the
Committee, after sending a registered letter, return receipt requested, to the
last known address, and after further diligent effort, to ascertain the
whereabouts of such Participant or his Beneficiary, the amount so distributable
shall be forfeited and shall be used to reduce the cost of the Plan. However,
notwithstanding the previous sentence, the amount of such forfeiture shall be
paid to such missing participant or Beneficiary in the event that such person
files a claim for such benefit while the Plan remains in effect and demonstrates
to the satisfaction of the Committee that such person in fact is such missing
Participant or Beneficiary.

                       ARTICLE IX - SEVERANCE AND VESTING
                       ----------------------------------



                                      -38-
<PAGE>

         Section 9.1 Benefits Upon Severance. If a Participant's employment with
his Employer is terminated other than at or after (i) the date the Participant
attains age 59 1/2,(ii) becomes Totally and Permanently Disabled, or, (iii)
dies, he shall be entitled to benefits upon severance equal to the vested value
of his account, if any, as of the Valuation Date coincident with or next
preceding the date on which his account is distributed. Any amount in the
Participant's account which is not vested shall be forfeited as provided in
Section 9.4.

         Section 9.2 Payment of Participant's Benefits Upon Severance.

                  (a) The benefits upon severance, if any, to which a
Participant is entitled under Section 9.1 shall be paid to him in a single sum
as soon as practicable or as soon as the Participant terminates employment.

                  (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, effective January 1,
1998, if the Participants' benefits upon severance exceed $5,000, no
distribution may be made before the Participant has attained age 65 without the
consent of the Participant in writing. The Committee shall notify the
Participant of the right to defer any distribution no less than 30 days and no
more than 90 days prior to the date of payment.

                  (c) If a Participant receives a distribution pursuant to
Section 9.2 and resumes employment covered under this Plan, the Participant's
account balance will be


                                      -39-
<PAGE>

restored to the amount on the date of distribution if the Participant repays to
the Plan the full amount of the distribution before the earlier of five years
after the first date on which the Participant is subsequently re-employed by the
Employer, or the date the Participant incurs five consecutive Breaks of Service
following the date of distribution.

Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to
the contrary, if a distribution is made under this Section 9.2, such
distribution may commence less than 30 days after the notice required under
Section 1.411(a)-11(c) of the Treasury regulations is given, provided that:

                  (1) the plan administrator clearly informs the Participant
that the Participant has a right to a period of at least 30 days after receiving
the notice to consider the decision of whether or not to elect a distribution,
and

                  (2) the Participant, after receiving such notice,
affirmatively elects such a distribution.

         Section 9.3 Vesting. The amounts credited to a Participant's Deferred
Participant Contribution Account shall at all times be fully vested. The amounts
credited to a Participant's Employer Contribution Account shall vest in
accordance with the following schedule:

                                            Percentage
                  Years of Service            Vested
                  ----------------          ----------
                  Less than 1                     0


                                      -40-
<PAGE>

                  1 but less than 2              25
                  2 but less than 3              50
                  3 but less than 4              75
                  4 or more                     100


In addition, a Participant shall be fully vested if, while employed by the
Employer, the Participant attains Normal Retirement Age, becomes Totally and
Permanently Disabled, or dies. Any Participant in the Plan on the date of
adoption of any amendment to the vesting schedule may, within an election period
which begins on the date of adoption of such amendment to the vesting schedule
and ends on the sixtieth day after the latest of: (i) the date the amendment is
adopted; (ii) the date the amendment becomes effective; or (iii) the date the
Participant is given written notice of the amendment by the Committee, elect to
have his vested percentage determined under the vesting schedule as in effect
immediately prior to the effective date of the amendment, provided he has
completed three Years of Service prior to the end of the election period. Any
election made will be irrevocable. Further, no Participant shall have his vested
percentage decreased by any change in the vesting schedule.

         Section 9.4 Forfeitures.

                  (a) The non-vested portion of a Participant's account will be
forfeited upon the occurrence of any distribution to the Participant from the
Plan. For purposes of this Section, if a Participant's vested percentage is zero
upon his termination of employment, he shall be deemed to have received a
distribution of his vested benefit as of such termination


                                      -41-
<PAGE>

date. If the preceding sentences do not apply, the non-vested portion of his
account balance will remain in his account until the Participant incurs five
consecutive Breaks in Service, at which time it will be forfeited. If the
Participant satisfies the requirements set forth in Section 9.2(c), his
non-vested amount will be restored to his account. Notwithstanding any provision
of this Section 9.4(a) to the contrary, the nonvested portion of a Participant's
account balance that would otherwise be forfeited under this Section 9.4(a)
shall be held in a suspense account if such Participant provides notice to the
Employer which satisfies the requirements of section 4312 of chapter 43 of title
38, United States Code, and shall only be forfeited if the Employer determines
that such Participant will not become reemployed with the Employer following a
period of Qualified Military Service.

                           (b) All forfeitures of non-vested interests in
the Plan occurring during the Plan Year shall be applied to reduce future
Employer Contributions. In addition, forfeitures shall be calculated and applied
separately with respect to employees of the Plan Sponsor, each Participating
Employer, and each Related Employer.

                             ARTICLE X - WITHDRAWALS
                             -----------------------

         Section 10.1 Hardship Withdrawals.

                  (a) A Participant, while in the employ of the



                                      -42-
<PAGE>

Employer, may apply in writing to the Committee, to withdraw a portion of his
balance in the vested portion of his Employer Contribution Account or Deferred
Participant Contribution Account. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to
the contrary, amounts accrued in a Participant's Pension Account may not be
withdrawn under this Section 10.1(a). A withdrawal under this Section 10.1(a)
may only be made in the case of a proven immediate and heavy financial need for
the following reasons:

                  (1) Expenses for medical care described in Section 213(d) of
the Code incurred by the Participant, the Participant's spouse, or any
dependents of the Participant (as defined in Section 152 of the Code) or the
distribution is necessary for such persons to obtain such medical care;

                  (2) Expenses incurred for the purchase (excluding mortgage
payments) of a principal residence of the Participant;

                  (3) The payment of tuition, room or board for the next 12
months of post-secondary education for the Participant, the Participant's
spouse, children or dependents; or

                  (4) Expenses incurred to prevent the eviction of the
Participant from his principal residence or foreclosure on the mortgage of the
Participant's principal residence.

                  (b) A distribution will be deemed to satisfy an immediate and
heavy financial need of the Participant if the Committee determines that all of
the following requirements are met:

                        (1) The distribution is not in excess of the


                                      -43-
<PAGE>

amount of the Participant's immediate and heavy financial need (as described in
paragraph (a) above).

                        (2) The Participant has obtained all distributions,
other than hardship distributions, and all non-taxable loans, currently
available under this Plan and all other qualified plans maintained by the
Employer.

                        (3) The Participant (A) agrees to the suspension of all
his Deferred Participant Contributions and contributions to any other plan of
deferred compensation maintained by the Employer ("aggregate employee
contributions"), for a period of 12 months after the receipt of the hardship
distribution, and (B) further agrees to limit Deferred Participant Contributions
for the Participant's taxable year immediately following the taxable year of the
hardship distribution to an amount not in excess of the applicable limit under
Section 402(g) of the Code for such next taxable year, less the amount of such
Participant's Deferred Participant Contributions for the taxable year of the
hardship distribution. The amount necessary to satisfy an immediate and heavy
financial need may include amounts necessary to pay federal and state taxes and
related penalties.

         Section 10.2 Amount Available for Withdrawal. The amount available for
withdrawal under Section 10.1 shall be the Participant's account balance
determined as of the Valuation Date immediately preceding the date the Committee
approves his request for the withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of


                                      -44-
<PAGE>

Section 10.1, but excluding (1) any investment income or gain credited to the
Participant's Deferred Participant Contribution Account, and (2) any Employer
contribution credited pursuant to Section 5.3(a) or (c).

         Section 10.3 Payment of Withdrawals. The Trustee shall, upon direction
by the Committee, distribute in a single sum any amounts withdrawn by a
Participant under Section 10.1 to such Participant as soon as practicable
following the date the Committee approves the Participant's request for a
withdrawal.

                           ARTICLE XI - DEATH BENEFITS
                           ---------------------------

         Section 11.1 Death Prior to Commencement of Payment. In the event a
Participant dies prior to his receipt of payments from the Plan, his death
benefit shall equal the entire amount credited to his account, as of the
Valuation Date coincident with or next succeeding the date of his death. This
death benefit shall be paid to the Participant's designated beneficiary in a
single sum as soon as practical after his death. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
a Participant's surviving spouse may elect to have the amount credited to the
Participant's account paid in the form of a single life annuity contract.
Payment shall be made, or commence, within one year after the Participant's
death.

         Section 11.2 Death After Commencement of Payments. Any portion of a
benefit under Section 8.1 remaining unpaid as of the death of a Participant


                                      -45-
<PAGE>

shall be paid to the deceased Participant's beneficiary in the manner selected
under Section 8.1, unless the beneficiary elects a single sum payment.

         Section 11.3 Verification of Death Benefit Payments. The Committee may
require the execution and delivery of such documents and receipts as may be
deemed necessary in order to be assured that the payment of any death benefit is
properly made.

         Section 11.4 Beneficiary Designation. Each Participant shall file with
the Committee a written beneficiary designation form naming the person or
persons who are to receive his benefits, if any, in the event of his death. A
Participant may change his beneficiary designation at any time prior to his
death by filing a new written designation with the Committee, subject to his
spouse's consent unless the consent of the spouse voluntarily permits the
Participant to change the beneficiary designation without further consent of the
spouse. The designation of a beneficiary other than the spouse of such
Participant shall not be effective unless:

                  (a) the spouse of the Participant consents to the election,
and such consent:

                        (1) is in writing;

                        (2) acknowledges the effect of the election including
the identity of the alternative beneficiary or beneficiaries, and

                        (3) is witnessed by a representative of the Plan or by a
notary public; or




                                      -46-
<PAGE>


                  (b) it is established to the satisfaction of the Committee
that the spouse's consent cannot be obtained because:

                        (1) the Participant has no spouse,

                        (2) the Participant's spouse cannot be located, or

                        (3) one of the conditions prescribed in the Treasury
regulations is satisfied.

An election consented to by a spouse shall be effective only against such
spouse, and shall not be effective against any other spouse of the Participant.
An election to which no spouse consented either (i) because none existed or (ii)
because the spouse could not be located (or because a condition specified in
Treasury regulations was satisfied), shall not be effective against any
subsequent spouse of the Participant. In the event a Participant fails to
designate a beneficiary, his beneficiary shall be deemed to be his surviving
spouse, or if none, the personal representative of his estate.

                  The Committee shall supply for each Participant who has an
account a written explanation of:

                        (1) the terms and conditions of the surviving spouse's
benefit under the Plan;

                        (2) the Participant's right to make, and the effect of,
an election to designate a different beneficiary;

                        (3) the rights of the Participant's spouse as set forth
above; and

                        (4) the rights to revoke an election and the effect of
such a revocation.

The explanation shall be provided during the Plan Year in which the Participant
attains age 32, 33, or 34, or within a reasonable time after he becomes a


                                      -47-
<PAGE>

Participant if later, or terminates employment with the Employer if earlier.

                               ARTICLE XII - LOANS
                               -------------------

         Section 12.1 Availability. A Participant may make application to the
Employer to borrow from the Trust Fund an amount not greater than the aggregate
of the amount standing to the credit of his account. The Employer may, in its
sole discretion and upon such uniformly applicable conditions as it shall
prescribe, make such a loan in accordance with this Article XII. A loan under
the Plan shall constitute an earmarked investment of the account and interest
paid on such a loan shall be credited to such account.

         Section 12.2 Maximum Amount. The aggregate amount of all such loans to
a Participant shall not exceed 50% of the aggregate amount standing to the
credit of his account under the Plan, and shall not exceed $50,000 minus the
Participant's largest outstanding loan balance under the Plan during the
12-month period ending the day before the loan is made.

         Section 12.3 Promissory Note. A secured promissory note shall be
delivered to the Plan pledging as collateral the Participant's interest in his
account. Interest on a loan shall be fixed by the Committee at a rate reasonably
equivalent to prevailing market interest rates.

         Section 12.4 Repayment. The loan shall be repaid in regular
installments no less frequently than monthly, by means of payroll deductions.
The term of a loan shall not exceed 5 years. Notwithstanding any provision of
the Plan to the contrary, if the purpose of the loan is for the purchase of a
principal residence, than the terms of the loan shall not exceed 30 years.


                                      -48-
<PAGE>

Prepayment of a loan in its entirety without penalty shall be permitted at any
time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such installments may be paid directly by
the Participant to the Trustee during any Authorized Leave of Absence. Loan
payments shall be credited monthly to the Participant's account.

         Section 12.5 Reduction of Account Balance. If the Participant ceases to
be an Employee before the loan is repaid in full, the unpaid balance thereof,
together with interest due and payable thereon, shall become due and payable,
and the Trustee shall first satisfy the indebtedness from the amount payable to
the Participant or his beneficiary before making any payments to the Participant
or his beneficiary.

         Section 12.6 Administrative Costs of Loans. Any administrative fees
incurred with respect to a loan shall be deducted from a Participant's account.

                                  ARTICLE XIII
                                  ------------
                 AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION; MERGER
                 -----------------------------------------------

         Section 13.1 Right to Amend or Terminate. The Employer expects to
continue this Plan and the payment of contributions hereunder indefinitely; but
such continuance is not assumed as a contractual obligation, and the Employer
expressly reserves the right to amend this Plan, to discontinue contributions
hereto or to terminate it at any time without the consent of any other party.
Additionally, any amendment or modification may be made retroactive, if
necessary or appropriate to qualify or maintain the Plan as a qualified plan
within the meaning of Section 401(a) of the Code and the Trust Fund as
tax-exempt under Section 501(a) of the Code and the regulations issued
thereunder. Any amendment to the Plan shall be made only after it is agreed upon


                                      -49-
<PAGE>

in writing by a majority of the Board of Directors at a duly convened meeting of
such directors.

         Section 13.2 Vesting Upon Termination or Discontinuance of
Contributions. In the event of a complete discontinuance of Employer
contributions, with or without a formal resolution of the Board of Directors, or
termination of the Plan, or withdrawal or exclusion from the Plan of a group of
Participants which constitutes a partial termination of the Plan, the Employer
Contribution Accounts of all affected Participants in the employ of the Employer
shall become fully vested and shall not thereafter be subject to forfeiture. In
the event of termination (without the establishment of a successor plan),
partial termination or complete discontinuance of Employer contributions, the
total amount of each affected Participant Account may be paid by the Trustees to
the Participant in cash or in kind or may be retained in the Trust Fund until
the termination of the Participant's employment.

         Section 13.3 Non-Diversion of Assets. No part of the assets of the
Trust Fund, by reason of any amendment or otherwise, shall at any time be used
for, or diverted to, purposes other than for the exclusive benefit of
Participants or their beneficiaries, and for the payment of administrative
expenses under the Plan, or as will cause or permit the assets of the Trust Fund
to revert to or become the property of the Employer, except as provided in
Section 4.3.



                                      -50-
<PAGE>

         Section 13.4 Merger or Consolidation of Plan; Transfer of Plan Assets.
In the case of any merger or consolidation with, or transfer of assets and
liability to, any other plan, provisions shall be made so that each Participant
on the date thereof, if the Plan then terminated, would receive a benefit
immediately after the merger, consolidation or transfer which is equal to or
greater than the benefit he would have been entitled to receive immediately
prior to the merger, consolidation or transfer if the Plan had then terminated.

                     ARTICLE XIV - ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE
                     --------------------------------------

         Section 14.1 Establishment of Administrative Committee. The Plan shall
be operated and administered by the Committee which is to be appointed by and
serve at the pleasure of the Employer. The Committee may appoint from their
number such committees, which may include individuals not members of the
Committee, with such powers as they shall determine; may authorize one or more
of their number, or any agent, to execute or deliver any instrument, or to make
any payment in their behalf; and may employ counsel, agents, and such clerical
and accounting services as they may require in carrying out the provisions of
the Plan. A majority of the members of the Committee at the time in office shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. All resolutions or other
action taken by the Committee at a meeting shall be by the vote of the majority
of the Committee members present at any meeting; or without a meeting, by
instrument in writing signed by all of the members of the Committee.



                                      -51-
<PAGE>

         Section 14.2 Delegation of Specific Responsibilities. The members of
the Committee may agree in a writing signed by each member to allocate to any
one of their number or to other persons (including corporations) any of the
responsibilities with which they are charged pursuant hereto, provided the
responsibilities and duties so delegated are definitely set forth so that the
person to whom the delegation is made is clearly aware of such duties and
responsibilities. If such delegation is made to a person not a member of the
Committee, that person or, in the case of a corporation, its responsible
officer, shall acknowledge the acceptance and understanding of such duties and
responsibilities.

         Section 14.3 Power to Establish Regulations. The Committee will
establish regulations for the administration of the Plan. Except as otherwise
herein expressly provided, the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to
interpret the Plan and decide any matters arising in the administration and
operation of the Plan, and any interpretations or decisions so made shall be
conclusive and binding on all persons; provided, however, that all such
interpretations and decisions shall be applied in a uniform manner to all
Employees and Participants similarly situated.

         Section 14.4 Claims Procedure.

(a)      All claims for benefits hereunder shall be
directed to the Committee or to a member of the Committee designated for that
purpose. Within 90 days following receipt of a claim for benefits, the Committee
shall determine whether the claimant is entitled to benefits under the Plan,
unless additional time is required for processing the claim. In this event, the


                                      -52-
<PAGE>

Committee shall, within the initial 90-day period, notify the claimant that
additional time is needed, explain the reason for the extension, and indicate
when a decision on the claim will be made, which must be within 180 days of the
date the claim is filed.

                  (b) A denial by the Committee of a claim for benefits shall be
stated in writing and delivered or mailed to the claimant. Such notice shall set
forth the specific reasons for the denial, written in a matter calculated to be
understood by the claimant without benefit of legal or actuarial counsel. The
notice shall include specific reference to the Plan provisions on which the
denial is based and a description of any additional material or information
necessary to perfect the claim, an explanation of why this material or
information is necessary, and the steps to be taken if the claimant wishes to
submit his claim for review.

                  (c) The Committee shall afford a reasonable opportunity to any
claimant whose request for benefits has been denied for a review of the decision
denying the claim. The review must be requested by written application to the
Committee within 60 days following receipt by the claimant of written
notification of denial of his claim. Pursuant to this review, the claimant or
his duly authorized representative may review any documents which are pertinent
to the denied claim and submit issues and comments in writing.

                  (d) A decision on the claimant's appeal of the denial of
benefits shall ordinarily be


                                      -53-
<PAGE>

made by the Committee within 60 days of the receipt of the request for review,
unless additional time is required for a decision on review, in which event the
decision shall be rendered not later than 120 days after receipt of the request
for ruling. Notice in writing of the extended time required shall be given to
the claimant within 60 days of his request for review.

The decision on review shall be in writing and shall include specific reasons
for the decision, written in a manner calculated to be understood by the
claimant, and shall contain specific reference to the Plan provisions on which
the decision is based.

         Section 14.5 Liability of the Committee. The Committee and the members
thereof, to the extent of the exercise of their authority, shall discharge their
duties with respect to the Plan solely in the interests of the Plan's
Participants and their beneficiaries, and for the exclusive purpose of providing
benefits thereto in accordance with the terms of the Plan and to defray the
reasonable administration expenses thereof. In all such actions or omissions the
Committee and each member thereof shall exercise the care, skill, prudence and
diligence under the circumstances then prevailing that a prudent man acting in a
like capacity and familiar with such matters would use in the conduct of an
enterprise of like character and with like aims; provided, however, that no
member shall be responsible for the actions or omissions of any other fiduciary
with respect to this Plan which are not in conformity hereto, unless (1) such
member knowingly participates in or knowingly conceals such conduct which he


                                      -54-
<PAGE>

knows to be in breach of this standard, (2) his own conduct has enabled the
other member or other fiduciary to be in breach of this standard, or (3) he had
knowledge of such breach by another member or other fiduciary and fails to make
reasonable efforts under the circumstances to remedy such breach.

         Section 14.6 Fiduciary Responsibility -- Insurance, Bonding. The
Committee may purchase appropriate insurance on behalf of the Plan and the
Plan's fiduciaries, including the members of the Committee, to cover liability
or losses occurring by reason of the acts or omissions of a fiduciary; provided,
however, that such insurance, if paid from the Trust Fund, must permit recourse
by the insurer against the fiduciary in the case of a breach of a fiduciary duty
or obligation by such fiduciary. The cost of such insurance and of any bonding
required for fiduciaries, to the extent not paid by the Employer, shall be borne
by the Trust Fund.

         Section 14.7 Allocation of Responsibility Among Fiduciaries for Plan
and Trust Administration. The fiduciaries hereunder, including the Trustee, the
Employer, and the Committee, shall have only those powers, duties,
responsibilities, and obligations as are specifically given them under this Plan
or the Trust Agreement. In general, the Employer shall have the sole authority
to appoint and remove the Trustee, members of the Committee, and any Investment
Manager which may be provided for under the Trust Agreement. The Committee shall
have the sole responsibility for the administration of this Plan, which
responsibility is specifically described in this Plan and the Trust Agreement.


                                      -55-
<PAGE>

Except as otherwise provided in the Trust Agreement, the Trustee shall have the
sole responsibility for the administration of the Trust Fund and the management
of the assets held under the Trust Fund, all as specifically provided in the
Trust Agreement. Each fiduciary warrants that any directions given, information
furnished, or action taken by it shall be in accordance with the provisions of
the Plan or the Trust Agreement, as the case may be, authorizing or providing
for such direction, information, or action. Furthermore, each fiduciary may rely
upon any such direction, information, or action of another fiduciary as being
proper under this Plan or the Trust Agreement, and is not required under this
Plan or the Trust Agreement to inquire into the propriety of any such direction,
information, or action. It is intended under this Plan and the Trust Agreement
that each fiduciary shall be responsible for the proper exercise of its own
powers, duties, responsibilities and obligations under this Plan and the Trust
Agreement and shall not be responsible for any act or failure to act of another
fiduciary except as otherwise provided herein.

                         ARTICLE XV - GENERAL PROVISIONS
                         -------------------------------

         Section 15.1 Prohibition Against Attachment.

                  (a) With the exception of income tax withholding and payments
pursuant to a Qualified Domestic Relations Order as hereinafter provided, and as
otherwise permitted by law, none of the benefits payable hereunder shall be
subject to the claims of any creditor of any Participant or beneficiary, nor
shall the same be subject to attachment, garnishment or other


                                      -56-
<PAGE>

legal or equitable process by any creditor of the Participant or his
beneficiary, nor shall any Participant or his beneficiary have any right to
alienate, anticipate, commit, pledge, encumber or assign any of such benefits.

                  (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, the Committee shall
direct the Trustee to comply with a Qualified Domestic Relations Order.

                  (c) A Qualified Domestic Relations Order is a (1) judgment,
decree or order, including approval of a property settlement agreement, made
pursuant to a state domestic relations law that relates to child support,
alimony payments or marital property rights to a spouse, former spouse, child or
other dependent ("Alternate Payee") of a Participant which:

                        (1) creates or recognizes the existence of an Alternate
Payee's right to, or assigns to an Alternate Payee the right to, receive all or
a portion of the benefits payable with respect to a Participant in this Plan;

                        (2) specifies (i) the name and last known mailing
address (if any) of the Participant and of each Alternate Payee; (ii) the amount
or percentage of the Participant's Plan benefits to be paid by the Plan to each
Alternate Payee, or the manner in which such amount or percentage is to be
determined; and (iii) the number of payments or the period to which the Order
applies and each plan to which the Order relates; and

                        (3) does not require the Plan to:

                              (A) provide any type or form of


                                      -57-
<PAGE>

benefit, or any option not otherwise provided under the Plan unless the
requirements of Section 414(p)(4) of the Code are satisfied;

                              (B) provide increased benefits; or

                              (C) pay benefits to an Alternate Payee that are
required to be paid to another Alternate Payee under a prior Qualified Domestic
Relations Order.

                  (d) Pending determination whether an order is a Qualified
Domestic Relations Order, the Plan will defer the payment of any benefits in
dispute. Such benefits will be placed in an escrow account. If the Committee
determines that an order is not a Qualified Domestic Relations Order within 18
months, the Plan must pay the escrowed amounts to the person otherwise entitled
to receive them. Subject to the preceding sentence, an Alternate Payee may at
any time withdraw from the Plan all or any part of the separate escrow account
established under such order for such Alternate Payee.

         Section 15.2 Facility of Payment. If any Participant or beneficiary is
physically or mentally incapable of receiving or acknowledging receipt of any
payment due under the terms of the Plan, and no legal representative shall have
been appointed for him, the Committee may direct the Trustee to make any such
payment to any person or institution maintaining such Participant or
beneficiary, and the payment to such person or institution in good faith shall
constitute a valid and complete discharge for such payment.



                                      -58-
<PAGE>

         Section 15.3 Payment to Minor Beneficiary. If the beneficiary of any
Participant shall be a minor and no guardian shall have been appointed for him,
the Committee may direct the Trustee to retain any payment due under the Plan
for his benefit until he attains majority. Such amount, as authorized by the
Committee, may be held in cash, deposited in bank accounts, or invested and
reinvested in direct obligations of the United States, or may be retained in the
Trust Fund, and the income thereon may be expended and applied directly for the
maintenance, education and support of such minor without the intervention of any
guardian and without application to any court.

         Section 15.4 No Rights of Employment. The Plan shall not confer upon
any Employee or Participant any right of employment, nor shall any provision of
the Plan interfere with the right of the Employer to discharge any Employee.

         Section 15.5 Liability for Payment. All benefits payable under the Plan
shall be paid or provided for solely from the Trust Fund, and the Employer
assumes no liability or responsibility therefor.

         Section 15.6 Applicable Law. This Plan shall be construed, interpreted
and administered according to the laws of the United States and, to the extent
permitted by such laws, according to laws of the State of Florida.

         Section 15.7 Construction. Words used in the masculine include the
feminine gender. Words used in the singular or plural shall be construed as if
plural or singular, respectively, where the context requires.

         Section 15.8 Titles. Titles of Articles and Sections are inserted for
convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or construction of the Plan.


                                      -59-
<PAGE>

         Section 15.9 Counterparts. This Plan may be executed by the Employer in
various counterparts to this document, each of which shall be deemed to be an
original but all of which shall be deemed to be one document.

                       ARTICLE XVI - TOP-HEAVY PROVISIONS
                       ----------------------------------

         Section 16.1 Definitions. The following definitions apply to this
Article:

                  (a) "Account Aggregate" is, with respect to a defined
contribution plan, the sum of Employee accounts plus the sum of all
distributions made from such accounts during the 5-year period ending on the
Determination Date, provided that (1) rollover contributions and similar
transfers initiated by an Employee, (2) the accrued benefit of any Employee who
was a Key Employee in a prior Plan Year but is no longer a Key Employee, (3) any
accrued benefits attributable to deductible Employee contributions, and (4) the
account of any individual who has not performed services for the Employer during
the 5-year period ending on the Determination Date, shall not be taken into
account. A transfer from one plan of the Employer to any other such plan shall
be considered neither a "distribution" nor a "rollover contribution" for
purposes of this subsection, but a distribution from a terminated plan shall be
considered a "distribution" for purposes of this subsection if such terminated
plan, had it not been terminated, would have been described in Section
16.1(b)(1) or (2).

                  (b) "Aggregation Group" means a group of plans consisting of
more than one plan and including:



                                      -60-
<PAGE>

                        (1) each plan of the Employer (whether or not
terminated) in which a Key Employee is a Participant in the Plan Year containing
the Determination Date or any of the four preceding Plan Years;

                        (2) each other plan of the Employer which enables any
plan described in (1) to meet the requirements of Section 401(a) or Section 410
of the Code; and

                        (3) any plan not described in (1) or (2) which the
Employer elects to include, provided that such inclusion does not prevent the
group from meeting the requirements of Section 401(a)(4) and Section 410 of the
Code.

                  (c) "Cumulative Accrued Benefit" is, with respect to a defined
benefit plan, the sum of the present values of all accrued benefits plus the sum
of distributions made with respect to such benefits during the 5-year period
ending on the Determination Date, provided that (1) rollover contributions and
similar transfers initiated by an Employee, (2) the accrued benefit of any
Employee who was a Key Employee in a prior Plan Year but is no longer a Key
Employee, (3) any accrued benefits attributable to deductible Employee
contributions, and (4) the accrued benefit of any individual who has not
received any compensation from the Employer (other than benefits under any plan
maintained by the Employer) during the 5-year period ending on the Determination
Date, shall not be taken into account. A transfer from one plan of the Employer
to any other such plan shall be considered neither a "distribution" nor a
"rollover contribution" for purposes of this subsection, but a distribution from
a terminated plan shall be considered a "distribution" for purposes of this


                                      -61-
<PAGE>

subsection if such terminated plan, had it not been terminated, would have been
described in Section 16.1(b)(1) or (2).

                  (d) "Determination Date" is the last day of the preceding Plan
Year.

                  (e) "Employer" means, for purposes of this Article, the
Employer and all Related Employers.

                  (f) "Key Employee" means an employee or former Employee who at
any time during the Plan Year or any of the four preceding Plan Years is:

                        (1) an officer of the Employer having an annual
compensation greater than 150% of the dollar limitation in effect pursuant to
Section 415(c)(1)(A) of the Code as adjusted from time to time by the Secretary
for any such Plan Year, provided however, that no more than the lesser of (A) 50
Employees or (B) the greater of 3 Employees or 10% of the Employees shall be
treated as officers under this paragraph;

                        (2) one of the 10 Employees having an annual
compensation from the Employer of more than the dollar limitation in effect
under Section 415 (c)(1)(A) of the Code as adjusted from time to time and owning
the largest interest in the Employer. The Employee with the greater annual
compensation shall be treated as having a larger interest if two Employees have
the same interest in the Employer;

                        (3) an owner of more than 5% of the outstanding stock of
the Employer or stock possessing more than 5% of the total combined voting power
of all stock of the Employer; or



                                      -62-
<PAGE>

                        (4) an owner of more than 1% of the outstanding stock of
the Employer or stock possessing more than 1% of the total combined voting power
of all stock of the Employer, who has an annual compensation from the Employer
of more than $150,000. For purposes of determining ownership in the Employer the
constructive ownership rules of Section 318 of the Code, as modified by
substituting "5 percent" for "50 percent" in subsection (a)(2)(C) thereof, shall
apply, but the rules of subsections (b), (c) and (m) of Section 414 of the Code
shall not apply. Each beneficiary of a Key Employee designated under this Plan
is a Key Employee.

                  (g) "Minimum Percentage" is the greater of:

                        (1) the percentage of the Participant's Total
Compensation which would be allocated to the Participant's account of the Plan
Year if Section 16.3 were disregarded, or

                        (2) the lesser of (A) 3% or (B) the highest percentage
at which contributions are made or required to be made for any Key Employee,
which percentage shall be determined by dividing the contributions made or
required to be made for such Key Employee by his Total Compensation; provided
that for purposes of computing such percentage all defined contribution plans
included in an Aggregation Group will be treated as one plan, but provided
further that if the Plan is included in such Aggregation Group in order to allow
a defined benefit plan within the group to meet the requirements of Section
401(a)(4) or Section 410 of the Code, then such percentage shall be deemed to be
5%.

For purposes of this subsection (g), any Employee contribution attributable to a
salary reduction or similar arrangement shall be taken into account.


                                      -63-
<PAGE>

                  (h) "Top-Heavy Group" is an Aggregation Group for which, as of
the Determination Date, the Total Benefit for Key Employees exceed 60% of the
Total Benefit for all Participants.

                  (i) "Top-Heavy Plan" -- The Plan is a Top-Heavy Plan in any
Plan Year in which:

                        (1) the Plan is a member of a Top-Heavy Group, if the
Plan is described in Section 16.1(b)(1) or (2), above; or

                        (2) the Plan is not a member of an Aggregation Group as
described in Section 16.1(b)(1) or (2), above, and, as of the Determination
Date, the Account Aggregate of the Plan for Key Employees exceeds 60% of the
Account Aggregate of the Plan for all Participants.

                  (j) "Total Benefit" is the sum of the Account Aggregate of all
plans within an Aggregation Group which are defined contribution plans, and the
Cumulative Accrued Benefit of all plans within an Aggregation Group which are
defined benefit plans.

         Section 16.2 Top-Heavy Vesting Schedule. For each Plan Year for which
the Plan is a Top-Heavy Plan, the vesting schedule provided in Section 9.3 shall
apply.

         Section 16.3 Top-Heavy Minimum Contribution. For each Plan Year for
which the Plan is a Top-Heavy Plan, the Employer shall contribute to the
Employer Contribution Account of each Participant who is not a Key Employee and
who is employed by the Employer as of the last day of the Plan Year an amount
which, when added to any forfeitures allocated to such Participant's account, is


                                      -64-
<PAGE>

not less than the Minimum Percentage of the Participant's Total Compensation for
the year. The Employer shall contribute to the Employer Contribution Account of
each Participant who is reemployed following a period of Qualified Military
Service an amount which would have been required under this Section 16.3 had
such Participant continued to be employed by the Employer and received Qualified
Military Service Compensation during such period.

         Section 16.4 Top-Heavy Adjustment to Section 415 Limitations. For each
Plan Year for which the Plan is a Top-Heavy Plan, the limit imposed by Section
5.6(c) shall be applied by substituting "1.0" for "1.25" in each place where it
appears, unless the Employer elects to make, and does make, additional
contributions sufficient to meet the requirements specified in subsection (b)
hereof. Such election shall only be effective for those Plan Years in which:

                  (a) the Plan would not be a Top-Heavy Plan as defined in
Section 16.1(i), above, if "90%" were substituted for "60%" in Sections 16.1(h)
and 16.1(i)(2), and

                  (b) with respect to each plan described in Section 16.1(b)(1)
or (2): (1) the minimum benefit described in Section 416(c)(2) of the Code (as
modified by Section 416(h)(2)(A)(ii)(II)) is provided by each such plan which is
a defined contribution plan, and (2) the minimum benefit described in Section
416(c)(1) of the Code (as modified by Section 416(h)(2)(A)(ii)(I)) is provided
by each such plan which is a defined benefit plan.


                                      -65-
<PAGE>

         Section 16.5 Certain Benefits Disregarded. The requirements of Section
16.2 and Section 16.3, above, must be met without taking into account
contributions or benefits under Chapters 2 or 21 of the Code, Title II of the
Social Security Act, or any other federal or state law.

         Section 16.6 Multiple Employer Top-Heavy Provisions. Notwithstanding
any provisions of this Plan to the contrary, Sections 16.1, 16.2, 16.3, 16.4,
and 16.5 shall be applied separately with regard to the Plan Sponsor, each Work
Site Employer, and each Related Employer as if each were a separate Employer.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hands this 31st day of
January, 2001.

ATTEST:                             HOLLYWOOD MEDIA CORP.



                                    By:  /s/ Nicholas Hall
- -----------------------                ---------------------------------
[SEAL]




                                      -66-
<PAGE>

                                   APPENDIX I

         The Plan provides the following different professionally-managed
investment funds:
                  -
                    (Option A) -

                  -
                    (Option B) -

                  -
                    (Option C) -

                  -
                    (Option D) -

                  -
                    (Option E) -

                  -
                    (Option F) -

                  -
                    (Option G) -

         The Participant may change his investment allocations on a daily basis.
A change in allocation will only affect future contributions. If a Participant
does not instruct the Committee as to how to invest future contributions, 100%
of such contributions shall be invested in Option G.

         With respect to a Participant's existing investments, the Participant
can change any investment in his account be liquidated and that the proceeds be
reinvested in another option on a daily basis. If the Participant does not
notify Trustee as to how to invest existing investments, such investments shall
be invested in Option G.


<PAGE>



         The following rules shall apply with respect to any changes:
         (1)      To make a change, the Participant must submit a request on a
                  form provided by the Committee. The completed form must be
                  presented to the Committee within three months from the date
                  that the request is to take effect. In addition, the
                  Participant may use the telephone system to make a change.
         (2)      The Committee shall honor the most recent affirmative
                  investment election made by the Participant, until and unless
                  a subsequent election is made.
         (3)      A Participant may change an investment option with the same
                  frequency that any other investment option may be changed.
         (4)      In no event shall any investment election take effect more
                  than three months after the date that the Employee requested
                  the change.


<PAGE>



                                   APPENDIX II
                                   -----------

         Each Related Employer which adopted the Plan is as follows:







</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>ex21-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
<TEXT>



EXHIBIT 21.1


                        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

                                                              State of
                    Name of Subsidiary                      Organization
                    ------------------                      ------------

Baseline, Inc.                                               Delaware
Broadway.com, Inc.                                           Delaware
Fedora, Inc.                                                 Iowa
hollywood.com, Inc.                                          California
Hollywood.com International, Inc.                            Delaware
Hollywood.fr SARL                                            France
Hollywood Wrestling Venture LLC                              Delaware
NetCo Partners (1)
Showtimes.com, Inc.                                          Delaware
Tekno Books (2)
Tekno Books International, LLC                               Wisconsin
Tekno Comix, Inc.                                            Florida
Theatre Direct NY, Inc.                                      New York

- ----------------

(1)      NetCo Partners is a general partnership formed under the laws of the
         State of New York in which the Company has a 50% partnership interest.

(2)      Tekno Books is a general partnership formed under the laws of the State
         of Wisconsin in which the Company has a 51% ownership interest.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>ex23-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANTS
<TEXT>





EXHIBIT 23.1



               CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS



As independent certified public accountants, we hereby consent to the
incorporation by reference in this Form 10-K of our report dated March 30, 2001
included in Registration Statement File Numbers 333-21173, 333-38219, 333-57855,
333-68209, 333-14659, 333-48380 and 333-45098.






Arthur Andersen LLP
Miami, Florida
March 30, 2001.



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
