ITEM 7.      MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS     The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements included in PART II, ITEM 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  This section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K generally discusses fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 items and year-over-year comparisons between fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018. A detailed discussion of fiscal 2017 items and year-over-year comparisons between fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 that are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K can be found in PART II, ITEM 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019, filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on April 2, 2019.  Overview of Our Business   Shoe Carnival, Inc. is one of the nation’s largest family footwear retailers, providing the convenience of shopping at any of our store locations, our mobile app or online at www.shoecarnival.com.  Our stores combine competitive pricing with a promotional, high-energy in-store environment that encourages customer participation and injects fun and excitement into every shopping experience.  We believe our distinctive shopping experi ence gives us various competitive advantages, including increased multiple unit sales; the building of a loyal, repeat customer base; the creation of word-of-mouth advertising; and enhanced sell-through of in-season goods. A similar customer experience is reflected in our e-commerce site and mobile app through special promotions and limited time sales.  Our objective is to be the destination retailer-of-choice for value-priced, on-trend branded and private label footwear.  Our product assortment includes dress and casual shoes, sandals, boots and a wide assortment of athletic shoes for the entire family.  Our average store carries shoes in four general categories – women’s, men’s, children’s and athletics, as well as a broad range of accessories such as socks, belts, shoe care items, handbags, hats, sport bags, backpacks and wallets.  Footwear is organized by category and brand, creating strong brand statements within the aisles.  These brand statements are underscored by branded signage on endcaps and in-line signage throughout the store.  Our signage may highlight a vendor’s product offerings or sales promotions, or may highlight seasonal or lifestyle statements by grouping similar footwear from multiple vendors.  Our e-commerce site offers customers a large assortment of products in all categories of footwear with an increased depth of sizes and colors that may not be available in all stores.  Our fiscal year is a 52/53 week year ending on the Saturday closest to January 31.  Unless otherwise stated, references to years 2019 and 2018 relate respectively to the fiscal years ended February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019. Both fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2018 consisted of 52 weeks.    Executive Summary  Overview  Net income increased 12.5% to $42.9 million in fiscal 2019, or $2.92 per diluted share, compared to net income of $38.1 million, or $2.45 per diluted share, in fiscal 2018.  Comparable store sales increased by 1.9% in fiscal 2019 and we generated low-single digit improvements in our conversion rate and units per transaction.  Store traffic was flat in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018.  Fiscal 2019 contains a $1.9 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, tax benefit associated with stock-based compensation awards.  Highlights of our performance in fiscal 2019 compared to the prior year are presented below, followed by a more comprehensive discussion under “Results of Operations”:          •   Net sales increased $6.9 million, or 0.7%, during fiscal 2019 to a record $1.037 billion compared to fiscal 2018.              •   Comparable store sales increased 1.9% in fiscal 2019 primarily due to strong sales in our non-athletic and accessories departments.  Women’s non-athletics posted a mid-single digit increase in comparable store sales with women’s sport posting a high single digit increase.  Men’s non-athletics posted a mid-single digit increase in comparable store sales, with men’s boots posting a low double-digit increase.  Children’s non-athletics also posted a mid-single digit increase in comparable store sales, with the infant category posting a low double-digit increase in comparable store sales.  Moreover, children’s athletics posted a low-single digit increase and our accessories department posted a high-single digit increase in comparable store sales.    28              •   Our gross profi t margin  slightly   increased  to  30. 1 %  in fiscal 201 9  from  30.0 % in the prior year.   Our merchandise margin increased 0. 3 % , but was partially   offset by increases in   b uying, distribution and occupancy  costs,  which  as a percentage of sales  in creased 0. 2 % compa red to the prior year .          •   We repurchased approximately 1.1 million shares of common stock during fiscal 2019 at a total cost of $37.8 million under our share repurchase programs and ended fiscal 2019 with $61.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and no outstanding debt.          •   During fiscal 2019, we continued to invest in CRM and completed the launch of our new, upgraded CRM platform in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.  This new platform includes a new production CRM database for a single source of customer information, identity resolution for multiple customer records, a new loyalty management platform and a new campaign management solution.          •   In fiscal 2019, we partnered with a third-party developer to deploy the necessary platforms to enhance our supply chain and order processing systems.  We are committed to implementing best practices in these areas and believe these enhanced systems will enable us to meet the complex demands of multi-channel fulfillment, position us for long-term growth and enhance customer satisfaction and convenience in an increasingly competitive environment.  We expect these systems to go live in mid fiscal 2020.          •   In fiscal 2019, we increased membership in our Shoe Perks customer loyalty program by an additional 2.4 million members, which brought total membership to 23.9 million customers at the end of the 2019 fiscal year.  For the 2019 fiscal year, member sales accounted for approximately 70% of our comparable total net sales, and members on average spent 19% more per transaction than non-members.  Our most loyal customers, those who qualify for the Gold tier, represent approximately 15% of our Shoe Perks members, and the average transaction value for these customers was 38% higher than non-Gold tier Shoe Perks members in fiscal 2019.  We believe our Shoe Perks program affords us opportunities to communicate, build relationships and engage with our most loyal shoppers, which we believe will result in long-term sales gains.            •   We closed six stores during the year, opened one store and relocated four stores.  We ended fiscal 2019 with 392 stores.            •   We adopted a new lease accounting standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.  This new guidance required us to recognize our operating leases and the rights and obligations created by these leases on the balance sheet in the form of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities.  Based on our assessment of the guidance, we recorded lease liabilities of $251.7 million upon adoption based on the present value of the remaining lease payments.  We recorded a corresponding right-of-use asset on the balance sheet based on the operating lease liabilities, reduced by net accrued rent, unamortized deferred lease incentives and prepaid rent totaling $25.8 million.  The new lease standard did not change the presentation of occupancy expense on our income statement and did not have a material impact on the amount of occupancy expense we recorded in cost of sales relative to legacy guidance.    Fiscal 2020   The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly impacted our store operations, sales and costs beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.  Impacts have included the temporary closure of our brick-and-mortar stores effective March 19, 2020 to April 2, 2020, reduced foot traffic and sales prior to such time, deteriorating economic conditions for our customer base and some disruption to our global supply chain.  The impact caused by COVID-19 on our operations and the operations of our business partners will continue to be fluid over the course of fiscal 2020 as our operations, economic conditions, supply chains and consumer spending adapt to the impacts of this virus being present where we operate, procure merchandise and raise capital. As guidance and mandates from governments and health officials continue to evolve, closures to some, or all, of our operations will need to extend beyond the announced closure period. In addition, certain projects and expansion opportunities will likely experience some delay as a result of the need for social distancing to control the virus and the need to allocate resources to address the impacts associated with COVID-19.       29      Our plan for  fiscal 2020   is to manage the effect of COVID-19 on our operations and to  continue to  focus on  key   strategic objectives in order to create  sustainable long-term growth for our   shareholders.   O ur core  initiatives  include :          •   Customer Relationship Management  – In fiscal 2020, we will continue to build our CRM program in order to capture actionable insights and enhance value for our consumers. Our marketing, merchandising, analytics and real estate teams will continue to leverage the new CRM platform in order to further shape our holistic view of customer shopping habits and identify our most valuable customers.  We will continue to engage in focused marketing activities in order to attract and grow our Shoe Perks loyalty program, especially our Gold membership tier, which offers our highest level of customer rewards and benefits.  In fiscal 2020, our teams will capture new shopper insights, giving us confidence that our CRM capability will fuel long-term growth, customer satisfaction and customer engagement.           •   Brand Awareness  – Our second core strategy is building Shoe Carnival brand awareness and preference within the family footwear channel.  During fiscal 2019, we launched our first fully integrated campaign with our new advertising agency, and we plan to continue to drive brand growth and reach customers in new and meaningful ways in fiscal 2020.  In fiscal 2020, we will continue to combine innovative marketing campaigns with strong merchandising in order to drive comparable store sales and traffic and optimize conversion.            •   E-commerce  – We launched our online business in 2012.  Since this launch, we have been committed to developing an e-commerce and integrated multi-channel strategy that resonates with our customers and reflects our customer centric brand.  In fiscal 2020, we will continue to build capabilities and integrate our CRM program with our online platform in order to enhance our customer’s journey and drive growth online and across all aspects of our multi-channel business.  Our long-term objective is to grow our multi-channel sales, including our e-commerce business, to over 10% of our total net sales from approximately 8% in fiscal 2019.          •   Real Estate  – Opening and repositioning stores to capture customer shopping preferences is our fourth core strategic growth opportunity.   As part of our strategic initiatives, we plan to open a limited number of new stores in fiscal 2020 and more stores in fiscal 2021.  Our strategic plans are focused on growth within our existing 35-state geographic footprint.  Moreover, we plan on leveraging the new insights that we gain from our CRM program to optimize our site selection and real estate decision making processes.  Critical Accounting Policies  We use judgment in reporting our financial results.  This judgment involves estimates based in part on our historical experience and incorporates the impact of the current general economic climate and company-specific circumstances.  However, because future events and economic conditions are inherently uncertain, our actual results could differ materially from these estimates.  The accounting policies that require more significant judgment are included below.  Merchandise Inventories  – Our merchandise inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value as of the balance sheet date and consist primarily of dress, casual and athletic footwear for women, men and children.  The cost of our merchandise is determined using the first-in, first-out valuation method (“FIFO”).  For determining net realizable value, we estimate the future demand and related sale price of merchandise in our inventory.  The stated value of merchandise inventories contained on our consolidated balance sheets also includes freight, certain capitalized overhead costs and reserves.   Factors considered when we review our inventory to properly state it at lower of cost or net realizable value include recent sale prices, historical loss rates, the length of time merchandise has been held in inventory, quantities of the various styles held in inventory, seasonality of the merchandise, expected consideration to be received from our vendors and current and expected future sales trends.  We reduce the value of our inventory to its estimated net realizable value where cost exceeds the estimated future selling price.  Merchandise inventories as of February 1, 2020, totaled $259.5 million, representing approximately 41% of total assets. Merchandise inventories as of February 2, 2019, totaled $257.5 million, representing approximately 62% of total assets.  Given the significance of inventories to our consolidated financial statements, the determination of net realizable value is a critical accounting estimate.  Material changes in the factors noted above could have a significant impact on the actual net realizable value of our inventory and our reported operating results.  30      Valuation of Long-Lived Assets  – Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment subject to depreciation  and right of use assets arising from our leased properties , are evaluated for  impairment on a periodic basis if events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.  This evaluation includes performing an analysis of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows of the long-lived assets.  Assets are grouped an d the evaluation performed at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows, which is generally at a store level.    If the estimated future cash flows for a store are determined to be less than the carrying value of the store’s assets, an impairment loss is recorded for the difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value.  We estimate the fair value of our long-lived assets using store-specific cash flow assumptions discounted by a rate commensurate with the risk involved with such assets while incorporating marketplace assumptions.  Our assumptions and estimates used in the evaluation of impairment, including current and future economic trends for stores, are subject to a high degree of judgment.  Assets subject to impairment are adjusted to estimated fair value and, if applicable, an impairment loss is recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses.  If actual operating results or market conditions differ from those anticipated, the carrying value of certain of our assets may prove unrecoverable and we may incur additional impairment charges in the future.      Leases-  We lease our retail stores and our single distribution center, which has a current lease term of 15 years, expiring in 2034.  We also enter into leases of equipment, copiers and billboards.  Prior to the purchase of our corporate headquarters in fiscal 2019, it was also leased.  All of our leases are operating leases.  Therefore, how operating leases are recognized throughout the financial statements in accordance with applicable accounting guidance can have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations and related disclosures.       In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic No. 842 –  Leases  (“ASC 842”), which we adopted in fiscal 2019, on the lease commencement date we recognize a right-of-use asset for the right to use a leased asset and a liability based on the present value of remaining lease payments over the lease term.  The weighted average discount rate utilized in fiscal 2019 was 5.5%.     As of the date of adoption of ASC 842 and for new leases, renewals or amendments, we make certain estimates and assumptions regarding property values, market rents, property lives, discount rates and probable terms.  These estimates and assumptions can impact: (1) lease classification and the related accounting treatment; (2) rent holidays, escalations or deferred lease incentives, which are taken into consideration when calculating straight-line expense; (3) the term over which leasehold improvements for each store are amortized; and (4) the values and lives of adjustments to initial right-of-use assets.  The amount of amortized rent expense would vary if different estimates and assumptions were used.     Our real estate leases typically include options to extend the lease or to terminate the lease at our sole discretion.  Options to extend real estate leases typically include one or more options to renew, with renewal terms that typically extend the lease term for five years or more.  Many of our leases also contain “co-tenancy” provisions, including the required presence and continued operation of certain anchor tenants in the adjoining retail space.  If a co-tenancy violation occurs, we have the right to a reduction of rent for a defined period after which we have the option to terminate the lease if the violation is not cured.  In addition to co-tenancy provisions, certain leases contain “go-dark” provisions that allow us to cease operations while continuing to pay rent through the end of the lease term. When determining the lease term, we include options that are reasonably certain to be exercised.  Insurance Reserves  – We self-insure a significant portion of our workers’ compensation, general liability and employee health care costs and also maintain insurance in each area of risk to protect us from individual and aggregate losses over specified dollar values.  Self-insurance reserves include estimates of claims filed, carried at their expected ultimate settlement value, and claims incurred but not yet reported.  These estimates take into consideration a number of factors, including historical claims experience, severity factors, statistical trends and, in certain instances, valuation assistance provided by independent third parties.  As of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, our self-insurance reserves totaled $2.7 million and $3.4 million, respectively.  While we believe that the recorded amounts are adequate, there can be no assurance that changes to management’s estimates will not occur due to limitations inherent in the estimating process.  If actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to future losses or gains that could be material.  31      Income Taxes  – As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our current and future income taxes for each tax jurisd iction in which we operate.  Significant judgment is required in determining our annual tax expense and evaluating our tax positions.  As a part of this process, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on the difference between the consoli dated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bas e s.  Our temporary timing differences relate primarily to inventory, depreciation, accrued expenses, deferred lease incentives and stock-based compens ation.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates enacted and expected to be in effect in the years when those temporary diffe rences are expected to reverse.   Deferred tax assets are reduced, if necessary, by a valuation allowanc e to the extent future realization of those tax benefits are uncertain.    We are also required to make many subjective assumptions and judgments regarding our income tax exposures when accounting for uncertain tax positions associated with our income tax filings.  We must presume that taxing authorities will examine all uncertain tax positions and that they have full knowledge of all relevant information.  However, interpretations of guidance surrounding income tax laws and regulations are often complex, ambiguous and frequently change over time, and a number of years may elapse before a particular issue is resolved.  As such, changes in our subjective assumptions and judgments can materially affect amounts recognized in our consolidated financial statements.  Although we believe we have no uncertain tax positions, tax authorities could assess tax liabilities in open tax periods not presently foreseen.  Results of Operations  The following table sets forth our results of operations expressed as a percentage of net sales for the following fiscal years:                 2019           2018           2017         Net sales           100.0   %           100.0   %           100.0   %     Cost of sales (including buying, distribution, and     occupancy costs)           69.9               70.0               70.9         Gross profit           30.1               30.0               29.1         Selling, general and administrative expenses           24.9               25.2               25.4         Operating income           5.2               4.8               3.7         Interest income           (0.1   )           (0.1   )           (0.0   )     Interest expense           0.0               0.0               0.0         Income before income taxes           5.3               4.9               3.7         Income tax expense           1.2               1.2               1.8         Net income           4.1   %           3.7   %           1.9   %       In the regular course of business, we offer our customers sales incentives, including coupons, discounts, and free merchandise.  Sales are recorded net of such incentives and returns and allowances.  If an incentive involves free merchandise, that merchandise is recorded as a zero sale and the cost is included in cost of sales.  Comparable store sales for the periods indicated below include stores that have been open for 13 full months after such stores’ grand opening prior to the beginning of the period, including those stores that have been relocated or remodeled.  Therefore, stores opened or closed during the periods indicated are not included in comparable store sales.  We include e-commerce sales in our comparable store sales as a result of our multi-channel retailer strategy.  Due to our multi-channel retailer strategy, we view e-commerce sales as an extension of our physical stores.  32      2019  Compared to  2018  Net Sales  Net sales increased $6.9 million to $1.037 billion for fiscal 2019, a 0.7% increase from net sales of $1.030 billion for fiscal 2018.  Of this increase in net sales, $20.2 million was attributable to the 1.9% increase in comparable store sales, as we generated low-single digit improvements in our conversion rate and units per transaction, even though traffic was flat in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018, and $4.6 million was attributable to the four new stores opened since the beginning of fiscal 2018.  The increase in net sales was partially offset by a loss in sales of $16.1 million from the 20 stores closed since the beginning of fiscal 2018 and a decrease in sales of $1.8 million attributable to our other non-comparable stores in fiscal 2019.  Gross Profit  Gross profit increased $2.9 million to $311.9 million in fiscal 2019 primarily due to higher sales.  Our gross profit margin slightly increased to 30.1% in fiscal 2019 from 30.0% in the prior year.  Our merchandise margin increased 0.3% primarily due to higher sales in the women’s non-athletic category, which typically carry a higher margin.  Buying, distribution and occupancy costs, as a percentage of sales, increased 0.2% compared to the prior year primarily due to lower occupancy expense during fiscal 2018 as a result of a $1.0 million lease termination benefit recognized for two stores in Puerto Rico where the landlord failed to make contractually required repairs.  Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $1.6 million to $257.7 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $259.2 million in the prior year.  As a percentage of sales, these expenses decreased to 24.9% in fiscal 2019 from 25.2% in fiscal 2018.  On an overall basis, the decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily driven by decreases in incentive and stock-based compensation expense and store closing and impairment costs, partially offset by increases in payroll and related benefits.  Significant changes in expense between the periods were as follows:             •   Stock-based compensation expense decreased $3.7 million in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to the vesting of awards granted prior to fiscal 2017 in March 2019 and higher expense in fiscal 2018 associated with awards granted in fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018 due to our financial performance.          •   Incentive compensation expense decreased $3.1 million in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018.  This decrease was primarily attributable to above target incentive compensation earned in fiscal 2018 compared to target performance earned in fiscal 2019.          •   Expense associated with our nonqualified deferred compensation plans increased $1.9 million during fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 due to increased market returns in fiscal 2019.          •   As noted below, closing costs and impairments decreased by $1.1 million as a result of less closures in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018.          •   Payroll and benefits increased $4.3 million in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018, primarily attributable to payroll at our stores.  Pre-Opening Costs  In fiscal 2019, pre-opening costs included in selling, general and administrative expenses were $43,000 compared to $208,000 for fiscal 2018.  We opened one store during fiscal 2019 compared to three stores in fiscal 2018 at an average pre-opening cost of $69,000.  Per store pre-opening expense decreased between years primarily due to lower advertising costs.  Pre-opening costs, such as payroll, most forms of advertising and supplies incurred prior to the opening of a new store, are charged to expense in the period in which they are incurred.  Advertising related to external production costs is expensed when the advertisement first takes place.  The total amount of pre-opening expense incurred will vary by store depending on the specific market and the promotional activities involved.      33      Store Closing Costs  and Impairments  The portion of store closing costs included in selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2019 was $1.7 million.  Store closing costs in fiscal 2019 were related to the six stores we closed during the year and acceleration of expenses associated with management’s determination to close certain underperforming stores in future periods.  From our evaluations performed during fiscal 2019, we recorded impairments of long-lived assets of $1.2 million on 11 underperforming stores.      The portion of store closing costs included in selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2018 was $2.8 million.  Store closing costs in fiscal 2018 were related to the 14 stores we closed during the year and acceleration of expenses associated with management’s determination to close certain underperforming stores in future periods.  There were no impairments of long-lived assets recorded in fiscal 2018.    The timing and actual amount of expense recorded in closing a store can vary significantly depending, in part, on the period in which management commits to a closing plan, the remaining basis in the fixed assets to be disposed of at closing and the cost incurred in terminating the lease.  Income Taxes  The effective income tax rate for fiscal 2019 was 21.6% compared to 24.3% for fiscal 2018. Our effective tax rate decreased in fiscal 2019 primarily due to a $1.9 million tax benefit related to the vesting of stock-based compensation recognized during fiscal 2019.  Liquidity and Capital Resources   Our primary sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents on hand of $61.9 million, cash generated from operations and availability under our $50 million credit facility.  While the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including our decision to temporarily close our stores, makes our operating cash flow less predictable, we believe our resources will be sufficient to fund our cash needs, as they arise, for at least the next 12 months. Our primary uses of cash are for working capital, which are principally inventory purchases, store initiatives, potential dividend payments, potential share repurchases under our share repurchase program, the financing of capital projects, including investments in new systems, and various other commitments and obligations.  Cash Flow - Operating Activities  Our net cash provided by operating activities was $66.9 million and $74.1 million in fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively.  These amounts reflect our income from operations adjusted for non-cash items and working capital changes.   The $7.2 million decrease in operating cash flow was primarily due to payments related to developing our new CRM platform and our new traffic management, warehouse management and order management systems, which are hosted arrangements. The current ratio was 2.7 as of February 1, 2020 compared to 4.8 as of February 2, 2019.  This decrease was primarily due to classifying a portion of our operating lease liabilities as current in fiscal 2019 due to the adoption of the new lease accounting guidance.  Cash Flow - Investing Activities  Our cash outflows for investing activities were primarily for capital expenditures.  During fiscal 2019, we expended $18.5 million for the purchase of property and equipment, $7.1 million of which was for the purchase of our corporate headquarters and $3.3 million was for the construction of one new store and the remodeling and relocation of existing stores.  During fiscal 2018, we expended $7.4 million for the purchase of property and equipment, $2.5 million of which was for the construction of new stores, remodeling and relocations.    Cash Flow - Financing Activities  Our cash outflows for financing activities were primarily for cash dividend payments, share repurchases and payments on our credit facility. Shares of our common stock can be either acquired as part of a publicly announced repurchase program or withheld by us in connection with employee payroll tax withholding upon the vesting of equity awards. Our cash inflows from financing activities have represented purchases under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and borrowings under our credit facility.  34      During fiscal  2019 , net cash used in financing activities was $ 54 .3  million compared to $ 51.0  million during fiscal  2018 .  The  increase in net cash used in financing activities between years was primarily due to  a  $10.7 million  year-over-year increase   for shares withheld upon the vesting of equity awards ,  partially offset by an $8. 3  million de crease in common stock repurchased as part of our stock repurchase program.    There were no borrowings outstanding under our credit facility and letters of credit outstanding were $1.2 million at February 1, 2020.  As of February 1, 2020, $48.8 million was available to us for additional borrowings under the credit facility.  Our credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with various financial covenants, the most restrictive of which are disclosed in  Note 7 – “Debt” to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in PART II, ITEM 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   We were in compliance with these covenants at February 1, 2020.  See Note 7 – “Debt” to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in PART II, ITEM 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of our credit facility and its covenants.  Store Openings and Closings – Fiscal 2019  We expect to realize positive long-term financial performance for our store portfolio.  We utilize a formal review process in our evaluation of potential new store sites as well as for decisions surrounding leases on existing store locations.  Our approach is both qualitative and quantitative in nature.  We continually enhance this process with tools such as real estate software used for portfolio analysis that aid in identifying viable locations for future expansion and identifying potential store closings and relocations, as well as additional information we learn about customers from our new CRM platform.     In fiscal 2019, we opened one new store.  The initial inventory investment for the new store was $683,000, capital expenditures were $236,000 and lease incentives received from our landlord were $120,000.    Pre-opening expenses for the store opened in fiscal 2019 included in cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses were approximately $59,000. Items classified as pre-opening expenses include rent, freight, advertising, salaries and supplies.  During fiscal 2018, we opened three new stores and expended $288,000 in pre-opening expenses, or an average of $96,000 per store.  The decrease in the average expense per new store was primarily the result of a decrease in advertising expense.       We closed six stores during fiscal 2019 and 14 stores during fiscal 2018.  Total store closing costs were $1.3 million in fiscal 2019 and $554,000 in fiscal 2018.  Store closing costs include impairments of long-lived assets, fixed asset write-offs, employee severances, lease termination fees and store tear-down and clean-up expenses associated with closing a store, and acceleration of expenses and deferred lease incentives associated with management’s determination to close certain underperforming stores in future periods.  In fiscal 2019, store closing costs included non-cash impairment charges on fixed assets of $1.2 million.  There were no impairments of long-lived assets recorded in fiscal 2018.  The timing and actual amount of expense recorded in closing an individual store can vary significantly depending, in part, on the period in which management commits to a closing plan, the remaining basis in the fixed assets to be disposed of at closing and the amount of any lease buyout.  Capital Expenditures – Fiscal 2020  Capital expenditures are expected to be $15 million to $20 million in fiscal 2020 and lease incentives from landlords are expected to be approximately $3 million.  Of our total capital expenditures, approximately $4 million are expected to be used for new store construction, approximately $6 million are expected to be used for store relocations and remodels and approximately $4 million are expected to be used to upgrade our distribution center.  The remaining capital expenditures are expected to be incurred for various other store improvements, continued investments in technology and normal asset replacement activities.  The resources allocated to these projects are subject to near-term changes depending on the impacts associated with the COVID-19 pandemic.  Further, the actual amount of cash required for capital expenditures for store operations depends in part on the number of stores opened, the number of stores relocated, the amount of lease incentives, if any, received from landlords and the number of stores remodeled.  The number of new store openings and relocations will be dependent upon, among other things, the availability of desirable locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms and general economic and business conditions affecting consumer spending.   Store Openings and Closings – Fiscal 2020  Increasing market penetration by opening new stores has historically been a key component of our growth strategy, and we continue to focus on generating positive long-term financial performance for our store portfolio.  In fiscal   35      2020, we expect to open  a limited number of  new stores within our existing 35-state geographic footprint, and we  also  expect  store closings to occur .    W e  expect to  pursue opportunities for  brick-and-mortar store growth across large and  mid-size markets as  we lev erage customer data from our CRM  program  and more attractive real estate options become available.  Further, our future store growth may continue to be impacted by the current econom ic uncertainty associated  with  the COVID-19 pandemic.       We continually analyze our portfolio of stores, with a concentration on underperforming stores, to meet our long-term goal of increasing shareholder value. Our objective is to identify and address underperforming stores that produce low or negative contribution and either renegotiate lease terms, relocate or close the stores.  Even though store closings could reduce our overall net sales volume, we believe this strategy will realize long-term improvement in operating income and diluted net income per share.  Depending upon the results of lease negotiations with certain landlords of underperforming stores, we may increase or decrease the number of store closures in future periods.  The timing and actual amount of expense recorded in closing a store can vary significantly depending, in part, on the period in which management commits to a closing plan, the remaining basis in the fixed assets to be disposed of at closing and the amount of any lease buyout.  We will continue to review our store portfolio based on our view of the internal and external opportunities and challenges in the marketplace.    Dividends   In fiscal 2019, four quarterly cash dividends were approved and paid. The first quarter dividend was in the amount of $0.080 per share and the dividends paid for the remaining three quarters were increased to $0.085 per share. During fiscal 2018, the first quarter dividend was in the amount of $0.075 per share and the dividends for the remaining three quarters were $0.080 per share.  During fiscal years 2019 and 2018, we returned $5.7 million and $4.8 million, respectively, in cash to our shareholders through our quarterly dividends.    The declaration and payment of any future dividends are at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, business conditions and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors.  Our credit facility permits the payment of cash dividends as long as no default or event of default exists under the credit agreement both immediately before and immediately after giving effect to the cash dividends, and the aggregate amount of cash dividends for a fiscal year do not exceed $10 million.  See Note 7 – “Debt” to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in PART II, ITEM 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of our credit facility and its covenants.  Share Repurchase Program  On December 12, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program for up to $50 million of outstanding common stock, effective January 1, 2020. The purchases may be made in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions from time-to-time through December 31, 2020 and in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. The share repurchase program may be amended, suspended or discontinued at any time and does not commit us to repurchase shares of our common stock. We have funded, and intend to continue to fund, the share repurchase program from cash on hand, and any shares acquired will be available for stock-based compensation awards and other corporate purposes.  The actual number and value of the shares to be purchased will depend on the performance of our stock price and other market conditions.  As of February 1, 2020, we had purchased approximately 184,000 shares at an aggregate cost of $6.9 million under the new share repurchase program, and we had $43.1 million available for future repurchases.  We do not anticipate repurchasing any shares in fiscal 2020 but will continue to reevaluate further share repurchases on an ongoing basis.    The new share repurchase program replaced the prior $50 million share repurchase program that was authorized in December 2018 and expired in accordance with its terms on December 31, 2019. At its expiration, we had purchased approximately 933,000 shares at an aggregate cost of $30.9 million under the prior repurchase program.    Our credit facility stipulates that  distributions in the form of redemptions of Equity Interests (as defined in the Credit Agreement) can be made solely with cash on hand so long as before and immediately after such distributions there are no revolving loans outstanding under the Credit Agreement .  See Note 7 – “Debt” to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in PART II, ITEM 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of our credit facility and its covenants.  36      Contractual Obligations    Significant contractual obligations as of February 1, 2020 and the fiscal years in which payments are due include:          (In thousands)       Payments Due By Fiscal Year         Contractual Obligations       Total           2020           2021 &  2022           2023 &  2024           2025 and  after         Letters of credit       $   1,200           $   1,200           $   0           $   0           $   0         Operating leases           291,964               55,246               103,546               69,726               63,446         Purchase commitments           413,017               400,641               9,609               2,767               0         Deferred compensation           13,870               569               268               27               13,006         Total contractual obligations       $   720,051           $   457,656           $   113,423           $   72,520           $   76,452           For purposes of our contractual obligations table above, we have assumed that we will make all payments scheduled or reasonably estimated to be made under those obligations that have a determinable expiration date.  We have disregarded the possibility that such obligations may be prematurely terminated or extended, whether automatically by the terms of the obligation or by agreement between us and the counterparty, due to the speculative nature of premature termination or extension.  Except for operating leases, the balances included in the “2025 and after” column of the contractual obligations table include amounts for which we are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of the potential future payments.  Estimated interest payments on our credit facility are not included in the above table, as our credit facility provides for frequent borrowing and/or repayment activities, which does not lend itself to reliable forecasting for disclosure purposes.    See Note 7 – “Debt”, Note 8 – “Leases”, Note 9 – “Income Taxes” and Note 10 – “Employee Benefit Plans” to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in PART II, ITEM 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of our contractual obligations.    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  There were no assignments of operating leases to third parties in fiscal 2019 or 2018.  We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of February 1, 2020.  See Note 8 – “Leases” to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in PART II, ITEM 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our lease obligations.  Seasonality and Quarterly Results  Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future, primarily as a result of seasonal variances and the timing of sales and costs associated with opening new stores and closing underperforming stores.  Non-capital expenditures, such as advertising and payroll incurred prior to the opening of a new store, are charged to expense as incurred.  The timing and actual amount of expense recorded in closing an individual store can vary significantly depending, in part, on the period in which management commits to a closing plan, the remaining basis in the fixed assets to be disposed of at closing and the amount of any lease buyout.  Therefore, our results of operations may be adversely affected in any quarter in which we incur pre-opening expenses related to the opening of new stores or incur store closing costs related to the closure of existing stores.  We have three distinct peak selling periods: Easter, back-to-school and Christmas.  To prepare for our peak shopping seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we would carry during other parts of the year.  We expect reduced sales during the fiscal 2020 Easter season as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.  This expected reduction and any other unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during these peak shopping seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross margins and negatively affect our profitability.  Our operating results depend significantly upon the sales generated during these periods.    New Accounting Pronouncements  Recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our operations are contained in Note 16 – “New Accounting Pronouncements,” contained in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in PART II, ITEM 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   37      ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITA TIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  We are exposed to market risk in that the interest payable on our credit facility is based on variable interest rates and therefore is affected by changes in market rates.  We do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to changes in market interest rates.  We borrowed $20 million under our credit facility in July 2019, which we repaid prior to the end of the second quarter ended August 3, 2019.  A 1% change in the weighted average interest rate charged under the credit facility would not have yielded a material fluctuation of interest expense for fiscal 2019.    ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 