Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 
18 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 32 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 34 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 71 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 71 Item 9B. Other Information 73     PART III   Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 73 Item 11. Executive Compensation 73 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 73 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 73 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 73     PART IV   Item 1. Business This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements based on expectations, estimates, and projections as of the date of this filing. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. See Item 1A of Part I—“Risk Factors.” Amazon.com, Inc. was incorporated in 1994 in the state of Washington and reincorporated in 1996 in the state of Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located in Seattle, Washington. We completed our initial public offering in May 1997 and our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “AMZN.” As used herein, “Amazon.com,” “we,” “our,” and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. General Amazon.com opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995. We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company. We are guided by four principles: customer obsession rather than competitor focus, passion for invention, commitment to operational excellence, and long-term thinking. In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, and content creators. In addition, we provide services, such as advertising services and co-branded credit card agreements. We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and Amazon Web Services (“AWS”). These segments reflect the way the Company evaluates its business performance and manages its operations. Additional information on our operating segments and product information is contained in Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11—Segment Information.” See Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Supplemental Information” for supplemental information about our net sales. Our company-sponsored research and development expense is set forth within “Technology and content” in Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Consolidated Statements of Operations.” Consumers We serve consumers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We design our websites to enable hundreds of millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties across dozens of product categories. Customers access our websites directly and through our mobile websites and apps. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle e-readers, Fire tablets, Fire TVs, and Echo, and we develop and produce media content. We strive to offer our customers the lowest prices possible through low everyday product pricing and shipping offers, and to improve our operating efficiencies so that we can continue to lower prices for our customers. We also provide easy-to-use functionality, fast and reliable fulfillment, and timely customer service. In addition, we offer Amazon Prime, an annual membership program that includes unlimited free shipping on tens of millions of items, access to unlimited instant streaming of thousands of movies and TV episodes, and other benefits. We fulfill customer orders in a number of ways, including through: North America and International fulfillment and delivery networks that we operate; co-sourced and outsourced arrangements in certain countries; and digital delivery. We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements. See Item 1A relating to fulfillment network and inventory optimization by us and third parties, we are exposed to significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and pricing, defective merchandise, changes in consumer demand and consumer spending patterns, changes in consumer tastes with respect to our products, and other factors. We endeavor to accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or understocking products we manufacture and/or sell. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory or components are ordered and the date of sale. In addition, when we begin selling or manufacturing a new product, it may be difficult to establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product or component selection, and accurately forecast demand. The acquisition of certain types of inventory or components may require significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not be returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and we may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or May Be Accused of Infringing Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, and others to protect our proprietary rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available. We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. We also cannot be certain that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property rights. Other parties also may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us, or the payment of damages, including to satisfy indemnification obligations. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own. These risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. Our digital content offerings depend in part on effective digital rights management technology to control access to digital content. If the digital rights management technology that we use is compromised or otherwise malfunctions, we could be subject to claims, and content providers may be unwilling to include their content in our service. We Have a Rapidly Evolving Business Model and Our Stock Price Is Highly Volatile We have a rapidly evolving business model. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly in response to, among other risks, the risks described elsewhere in this Item 2. Properties As of  December 31, 2016 , we operated the following facilities (in thousands):   Description of Use   Leased Square Footage (1)   Owned Square Footage   Location Office space   8,454   3,693   North America Office space   7,314   —   International Fulfillment, data centers, and other   97,215   2,237   North America Fulfillment, data centers, and other   59,175   1,257   International Total   172,158   7,187      ___________________ (1) For leased properties, represents the total leased space excluding sub-leased space. Segment   Leased Square Footage (1)   Owned Square Footage (1) North America   93,716   586 International   57,243   218 AWS   5,431   2,690 Total   156,390   3,494  ___________________ (1) Segment amounts exclude corporate facilities. Shared facilities are allocated among the segments based on usage and primarily relate to facilities that hold our technology infrastructure. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11—Segment Information.” We own and lease our corporate headquarters in Seattle, Washington. Additionally, we own and lease corporate office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, warehouse operations, data center, customer service, and other facilities, principally in North America, Europe, and Asia. Item 3. Legal Proceedings See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings.” Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock, Related Shareholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “AMZN.” The following table sets forth the high and low per share sale prices for our common stock for the periods indicated, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market.       High   Low Year ended December 31, 2015         First Quarter   $ 389.37   $ 285.25 Second Quarter   452.65   368.34 Third Quarter   580.57   425.57 Fourth Quarter   696.44   506.00 Year ended December 31, 2016         First Quarter   $ 657.72   $ 474.00 Second Quarter   731.50   585.25 Third Quarter   839.95   716.54 Fourth Quarter   847.21   710.10 Holders As of  January 25, 2017 , there were 2,448 shareholders of record of our common stock, although there is a much larger number of beneficial owners. Dividends We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. See Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and the information contained in Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Historical results are not necessarily indicative of future results.       Year Ended December 31,     2012   2013   2014   2015   2016     (in millions, except per share data) Statements of Operations:                     Net sales   $ 61,093   $ 74,452   $ 88,988   $ 107,006   $ 135,987 Operating income   $ 676   $ 745   $ 178   $ 2,233   $ 4,186 Net income (loss)   $ (39 )   $ 274   $ (241 )   $ 596   $ 2,371 Basic earnings per share (1)   $ (0.09 )   $ 0.60   $ (0.52 )   $ 1.28   $ 5.01 Diluted earnings per share (1)   $ (0.09 )   $ 0.59   $ (0.52 )   $ 1.25   $ 4.90 Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share:                     Basic   453   457   462   467   474 Diluted   453   465   462   477   484 Statements of Cash Flows:                     Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities   $ 4,180   $ 5,475   $ 6,842   $ 11,920   $ 16,443                           December 31,     2012   2013   2014   2015   2016     (in millions) Balance Sheets:                     Total assets   $ 32,555   $ 40,159   $ 54,505   $ 64,747   $ 83,402 Total long-term obligations   $ 5,361   $ 7,433   $ 15,675   $ 17,476   $ 20,301  ___________________ (1) For further discussion of earnings per share, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income or other taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part I, “Risk Factors.” Overview Our primary source of revenue is the sale of a wide range of products and services to customers . The products offered on our consumer-facing websites primarily include merchandise and content we have purchased for resale from vendors and those offered by third-party sellers, and we also manufacture and sell electronic devices. Generally, we recognize gross revenue from items we sell from our inventory as product sales and recognize our net share of revenue of item summarized above, refer to Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt” for additional discussion of the notes. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented as financing cash flows. Cash inflows from tax benefits related to stock-based compensation deductions were  $6 million ,  $119 million , and  $829 million  in  2014 ,  2015 , and  2016 . We had no borrowings outstanding under our $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) and  $495 million  of borrowings outstanding under our $500 million secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) as of  December 31, 2016 . See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt” for additional information.  In  2014 ,  2015 , and  2016 , we recorded net tax provisions of  $167 million ,  $950 million , and  $1.4 billion . Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings, and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. As of  December 31, 2016 , cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries was  $8.6 billion , which included undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries indefinitely invested outside of the U.S. of  $2.8 billion . We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. In December 2015, U.S. legislation was enacted that extended accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property through 2019. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were  $177 million ,  $273 million , and  $412 million  for  2014 ,  2015 , and  2016 . As of  December 31, 2016 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately  $76 million  and we had approximately  $608 million  of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit. As we utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits, we expect cash paid for taxes to significantly increase. We endeavor to manage our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. Our liquidity is also affected by restricted cash balances that are pledged as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. To the extent we process payments for third-party sellers or offer certain types of stored value to our customers, some jurisdictions may restrict our use of those funds. These restrictions would result in the reclassification of a portion of our cash and cash equivalents from “Cash and cash equivalents” to restricted cash, which is classified within “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets. As of  December 31, 2015  and  2016 , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were  $285 million  and  $600 million . See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 7—Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were  $8.5 billion  as of  December 31, 2016 . Purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. On average, our high inventory velocity means we generally collect from consumers before our payments to suppliers come due. We expect variability in inventory turnover over time since it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by third-party sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability and selection of product offerings, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to which we choose to utilize third-party fulfillment providers. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as borrowing available under our credit agreements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months, which includes the maturation of  $1.0 billion  of our unsecured senior notes. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5—Long-Term Debt and Note 6—Other Long-Term Liabilities” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was  $(118) million ,  $(256) million , and  $90 million  during  2014 ,  2015 , and  2016 . The primary component of other income (expense), net is related to foreign currency and equity warrant valuation gains (losses). Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in how we do business, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, audit-related developments, foreign currency gains (losses), tax law developments (including changes in statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices), and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower.  We recorded a provision for income taxes of  $167 million ,  $950 million , and  $1.4 billion  in  2014 ,  2015 , and  2016 . Our provision for income taxes in 2015 was higher than in 2014 primarily due to an increase in U.S. pre-tax income and increased losses in certain foreign subsidiaries for which we may not realize a tax benefit. Losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, primarily due to losses of foreign subsidiaries, reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate. We have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. We also generated income in lower tax jurisdictions primarily related to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg. Our provision for income taxes in 2016 was higher than in 2015 primarily due to an increase in U.S. pre-tax income, partially offset by an increase in the proportion of foreign losses for which we may realize a tax benefit, an increase in tax amortization deductions, and a decline in the proportion of nondeductible expenses. We have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. We generated income and losses in lower tax jurisdictions primarily related to our European operations. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. In December 2015, U.S. legislation was enacted that extended accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property through 2019 and made permanent the U.S. federal research and development credit. As of  December 31, 2016 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately  $76 million  and we had approximately  $608 million  of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 