Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income or other taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, proposed and completed acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part I, “Risk Factors.” Overview Our primary source of revenue is the sale of a wide range of products and services to customers . The products offered through our stores include merchandise and content we have purchased for resale and products offered by third-party sellers, and we also manufacture and sell electronic devices. Generally, we recognize gross revenue from items we sell from our inventory as product sales and recognize our net share of revenue of item addressed above, refer to Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information, which reflects retrospective adjustments to our consolidated statements of cash flows as described in Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 5 — Debt” for additional information.  In  2016 ,  2017 , and  2018 , we recorded net tax provisions of  $1.4 billion ,  $769 million , and  $1.2 billion . Certain foreign subsidiary earnings are subject to U.S. taxation under the U.S. Tax Act, which also repeals U.S. taxation on the subsequent repatriation of those earnings. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. As of  December 31, 2018 , cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries was $12.0 billion. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. The U.S. Tax Act enhanced and extended the option to claim accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing full expensing of qualified property, primarily equipment, through 2022. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were  $412 million ,  $957 million , and  $1.2 billion  for  2016 ,  2017 , and  2018 . As of  December 31, 2018 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately  $627 million  and we had approximately  $1.4 billion  of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit. As we utilize our federal net operating losses and tax credits we expect cash paid for taxes to increase. We endeavor to manage our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. In connection with the European Commission’s October 2017 decision against us on state aid, Luxembourg tax authorities computed an initial recovery amount, consistent with the European Commission’s decision, of approximately €250 million, that we deposited into escrow in March 2018, subject to adjustment pending conclusion of all appeals.  Our liquidity is also affected by restricted cash balances that are pledged as collateral for real estate leases, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit. To the extent we process payments for third-party sellers or offer certain types of stored value to our customers, some jurisdictions may restrict our use of those funds. These restrictions would result in the reclassification of a portion of our cash and cash equivalents from “Cash and cash equivalents” to restricted cash, which is classified within “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets. As of  December 31, 2017  and  2018 , restricted cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were  $1.3 billion  and  $426 million . See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Additionally, purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were  $13.1 billion  as of  December 31, 2018 . These purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as our borrowing arrangements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 5 — Debt and Note 6 — Other Long-Term Liabilities” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was  $90 million ,  $346 million , and  $(183) million  during  2016 ,  2017 , and  2018 . The primary components of other income (expense), net are related to foreign currency, equity warrant valuation, and equity securities gains. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in how we do business, acquisitions, investments, audit-related developments, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 9 — Income Taxes” for additional information. Equity-Method Investment Activity, Net of Tax Equity-method investment activity, net of tax, was  $(96) million ,  $(4) million , and  $9 million  in  2016 ,  2017 , and  2018 . The primary components of this activity during  2016 ,  2017 , and  2018  were our equity-method investment gains (losses) during the years and impairments recorded in 2016.  Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures.  We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through capital and finance leases. As a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance, we retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements of cash flows to add restricted cash to cash and cash equivalents. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 