Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products and services sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income or other taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of claims, litigation, government investigations, and other proceedings, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which we enter into, maintain, and develop commercial agreements, proposed and completed acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part I, “Risk Factors.” Overview Our primary source of revenue is the sale of a wide range of products and services to customers . The products offered through our stores include merchandise and content we have purchased for resale and products offered by third-party sellers, and we also manufacture and sell electronic devices and produce media content. Generally, we recognize gross revenue from items we sell from our inventory as product sales and recognize our net share of revenue of item addressed above, refer to Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 2018  includes a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended  December 31, 2017  in Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies.” Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flow information, which reflects retrospective adjustments to our consolidated statements of cash flows as described in Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business and Accounting Policies,” is as follows (in millions):       Year Ended December 31,   2018   2019 Cash provided by (used in):       Operating activities $ 30,723   $ 38,514 Investing activities (12,369 )   (24,281 ) Financing activities (7,686 )   (10,066 ) Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were  $41.3 billion  and  $55.0 billion  as of  December 31, 2018  and  2019 . Amounts held in foreign currencies were  $13.8 billion  and  $15.3 billion  as of  December 31, 2018  and  2019 , and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. Cash  provided by (used in)  operating activities was  $30.7 billion  and  $38.5 billion  in  2018  and  2019 . Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, and advertisers, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation, payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The  increase  in operating cash flow in  2019 , compared to the prior year, is primarily due to the increase in net income, excluding non-cash charges such as depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation. Cash  provided by (used in)  operating activities is also subject to changes in working capital. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Cash  provided by (used in)  investing activities corresponds with cash capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, incentives received from property and equipment vendors, proceeds from asset sales, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash  provided by (used in)  investing activities was  $(12.4) billion  and  $(24.3) billion  in  2018  and  2019 , with the variability caused primarily by our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment and purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities. Cash capital expenditures were  $11.3 billion , and  $12.7 billion  in  2018  and  2019 , which primarily reflect additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations and additional investments in support of continued business growth in technology infrastructure (the majority of which is to support AWS). We made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of  $2.2 billion  and  $2.5 billion  in  2018  and  2019 . Cash  provided by (used in)  financing activities was  $(7.7) billion  and  $(10.1) billion  in  2018  and  2019 . Cash outflows from financing activities result from principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations and repayments of long-term debt and other, and were  $8.5 billion  and  $12.3 billion  in  2018  and  2019 . Property and equipment acquired under finance leases was  $10.6 billion  and  $13.7 billion  in  2018  and  2019 , with the  increase  reflecting investments in support of continued business growth primarily due to investments in technology infrastructure for AWS, which investments we expect to continue over time. We had no borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper program (the “Commercial Paper Program”) or unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) and  $740 million  of borrowings outstanding under our  $740 million  secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) as of  December 31, 2019 . See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies” for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged assets. Additionally, purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were  $15.7 billion  as of  December 31, 2019 . These purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancellable in full or in part through the contractual provisions. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, as well as our borrowing arrangements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next twelve months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 4 — Leases and Note 6 — Debt” for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was  $(183) million  and  $203 million  during  2018  and  2019 . The primary components of other income (expense), net are related to equity securities and warrant valuations and foreign currency. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in how we do business, acquisitions, investments, audit-related developments, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower.  We recorded a provision for income taxes of  $1.2 billion  and  $2.4 billion  in  2018  and  2019 . Our provision for income taxes in 2019 was higher than in 2018 primarily due to an increase in U.S. pre-tax income, a decline in excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, and the one-time provisional tax benefit of the U.S. Tax Act recognized in 2018. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions are reducing our U.S. taxable income. The U.S. Tax Act enhanced and extended accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing full expensing of qualified property, primarily equipment, through 2022. As of  December 31, 2019 , we had approximately  $1.7 billion  of federal tax credits potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. Our federal tax credits are primarily related to the U.S. federal research and development credit. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 9 — Income Taxes” for additional information. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures.  We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through finance leases and financing obligations. We adopted new lease accounting guidance on January 1, 2019 without retrospectively adjusting prior periods. As a result, the line items used in our calculation of measures of free cash flows have changed. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 