Item 7.   Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 15 Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 19 Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 20 Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 43 Item 9A.   Controls and Procedures 43 Item 9B.   Other Information 43 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections   43   PART III   Item 10.   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 44 Item 11.   Executive Compensation 44 Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 44 Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 44 Item 14.   Principal Accounting Fees and Services 44     PART IV   Item 15.   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 44 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 44     SIGNATURES 49 SPECIAL NOTE ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Such statements are based upon current expectations, as well as management’s beliefs and assumptions and involve a high degree of risk and uncertainty. Any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Statements that include the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "expects," "intends," and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding our anticipated financial and operating performance for future periods. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed or suggested in the forward-looking statements herein. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) actual demand for our services; (2) the availability of qualified contract professionals and our ability to attract, train and retain them; (3) our ability to remain competitive in obtaining and retaining clients; (4) management of our growth; (5) continued performance and integration of our enterprise-wide information systems; (6) our ability to manage our litigation matters; (7) the successful integration of our acquired subsidiaries; (8) maintenance of our Federal Government Segment contract backlog; an d (9) the factors described in  Item 1A. Risk Factors  of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (" 2021  10-K").  Other factors also may contribute to the differences between our forward-looking statements and our actual results. In addition, as a result of these and other factors, our past financial performance should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. All forward-looking statements in this document are based on information available to us as of the date we file this 2021 10-K, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or the reasons why our actual results may differ. 1 PART I Item 1. Business Overview and History  ASGN Incorporated ("ASGN," "we," or "us") is a leading provider of information technology (IT) services and professional solutions, including technology, creative, and digital, across the commercial and government sectors. We operate through two segments, Commercial and Federal Government. Our Commercial Segment, which is our largest segment, provides consulting, creative digital marketing and permanent placement services primarily to Fortune 1000 clients and mid-market companies. Our Federal Government Segment provides mission-critical solutions to the Department of Defense, intelligence agencies and civilian agencies.  We have grown through a combination of organic growth and strategic acquisitions. Over the last four years, we acquired ECS Federal, LLC ("ECS") in April 2018 and nine "tuck-in" acquisitions that align with our strategy to expand our IT consulting services and solutions capabilities in the commercial and federal government markets. On August 17, 2021, we sold the Oxford Global Resources business unit (the "Oxford business"), see  Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 4. Discontinued Operations . As a result of this disposition, the Oxford business has been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented herein and all segment data has been recast to remove Oxford as reportable segment.   ASGN was incorporated in 1992. Our principal office is located at 4400 Cox Road, Suite 110, Glen Allen, Virginia 23060, and our telephone number is (888) 482-8068.    Commercial Segment Our Commercial Segment (73.0 percent of consolidated revenues) provides a broad spectrum of IT services and solutions and creative digital marketing services primarily to Fortune 1000 and mid-market clients through a network of 95 branch offices across the United States, five branch offices in Canada and Europe, and two delivery centers in Mexico and India. Growth in this segment is being driven across industries by durable digital transformation and innovation requirements, workforce mobilization and modern enterprise needs. Our talent pool can be deployed in short duration solution-specific engagements or long-term consultative roles. Corporate support activities are based in Richmond, Virginia, Los Angeles, California and Irvine, California. Assignment  — We provide our clients with experienced IT and creative digital marketing contract professionals for temporary assignments and project engagements. Our contract professionals have knowledge and experience in specialized technical and creative digital marketing services that make them qualified to fill a given assignment or project.   Consulting  — We provide workforce mobilization, modern enterprise and digital innovation IT consulting services. Our contract professionals and subject matter experts deliver solutions that are customer focused and value driven. From requirements definition to full managed services, we provide a continuum of cloud, data and analytics, and digital transformation solutions to support our clients’ modern enterprise and digital needs, across the full life cycle.   Federal Government Segment Our Federal Government Segment (27.0 percent of consolidated revenues) delivers advanced solutions in cloud, cybersecurity, artificial intelligence, machine learning, application and IT modernization, science and engineering to some of the world's leading agencies in both the public and private sectors. Our team of skilled experts tackle critical and highly complex challenges for customers in the U.S. defense and intelligence communities, federal civilian agencies and state and local government, education and commercial customers. We maintain premier relationships with leading cloud, cybersecurity and artificial intelligence/machine learning providers and hold specialized certifications in these technologies.  The segment provides services under time-and-materials, cost reimbursable and firm-fixed-price contracts. Contracts range from approximately three to five years in length. We have a backlog of awarded contracts of $3.0 billion as of December 31, 2021, which represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under awarded contracts including task orders and options.  Corporate support activities are based in Fairfax, Virginia, with 29 branch offices located across the United States.  Industry and Market Dynamics ASGN delivers staffing and consulting services in the technology, digital and creative fields across commercial and government sectors. ASGN helps leading corporate enterprises and government organizations develop, implement and operate critical IT and business solutions through its integrated offering of professional staffing and IT consulting services and solutions.  Our total addressable market is approximately $488.0 billion. It includes $348.0 billion in IT consulting and professional staffing and $140.0 billion in government IT services and solutions. The Staffing Industry Analysts' U.S. Staffing Industry Forecast (September 2021 Update) projects the U.S. staffing industry will bounce back from declines experienced in 2020, driven by six percent U.S. gross domestic product growth. 2   We anticipate that our clients will increase their use of contract labor, professional staffing and consulting services in 2022. By using our contract labor professional staffing and consulting services, our clients benefit from cost structure advantages, flexibility to address fluctuating demand in business, and access to greater expertise. Our business model continues to evolve in line with client needs and expectations to focus on higher-end, higher-margin IT consulting services and solutions capabilities, particularly those related to digital transformation and other areas of technology change and specialization including data analytics, artificial intelligence/machine learning, big data, process automation and information security. We intend to continue to grow our diverse client base by focusing on large, stable accounts that are quick adopters of new technologies. We will invest in our organic growth, and we will look to execute acquisitions in the commercial and federal government end markets that provide us with new solution capabilities, industry expertise or contract vehicles. Clients We serve our clients by effectively understanding their IT, consulting and digital creative marketing services needs and providing them qualified professionals with a unique combination of skills, experience and expertise to meet those needs. Our clients set rigorous requirements for the talent they are seeking, and we use our extensive databases and deep relationships with our contract professionals to quickly identify and pre-screen candidates whose qualifications meet those requirements. We are responsible for recruiting, verifying credentials upon request, hiring, administering pay and benefits, compliance and training, as applicable. In 2021, revenues from the U.S. federal government were approximately 25.2 percent of consolidated revenues and no other client represented more than 10 percent of revenues. Candidates We recruit candidates with backgrounds in IT services and consulting and digital creative marketing who seek contract work opportunities. When we place these candidates on assignments or consulting projects with clients, they become our employees. Many of these contract professionals, and those we place via subcontractors, are paid hourly wage or contract rates based on their specific skills and whether or not the assignment involves travel away from their primary residence. We pay the related costs of employment including social security taxes, federal and state unemployment taxes, workers’ compensation insurance and other similar costs for our employees. After achieving minimum service periods and/or hours worked, our contract professionals are offered access to medical and other voluntary benefit programs (e.g., dental, vision, disability) and the right to participate in our 401(k) retirement savings plan. Each contract professional’s employment relationship with us is terminable at will. We placed approximately 52,900 contract professionals throughout 2021. Strategy ASGN's strategy is to be a leading provider of IT services and professional solutions, including technology, creative, and digital, across the commercial and federal government sectors. We are focused on high-margin work with high-volume scalable clients and projects, at large commercial enterprise accounts and federal government customers. We have built a sizable commercial consulting platform and we plan to continue to grow our revenues through both organic and acquisitive growth. Our acquisition strategy focuses on IT consulting companies that add new services, capabilities and contracts that support our commercial and federal government customer needs. Our strategic innovation efforts and technology investments focus on putting the best productivity tools in the hands of our recruiters, our candidates and our clients, making it easy for clients and contract professionals to work with ASGN. We respond to emerging trends in digitization and candidate sourcing to better position our businesses and improve how we serve clients and consultants. Competition We see ourselves as a hybrid between pure staff augmentation and pure play consulting due to the way in which we provide human capital on a project-by-project basis. We compete with other large publicly-held and privately-owned providers of human capital in the professional staffing and IT and management consulting service segments on a local, regional, national and international basis across the commercial and government sectors. With an industry focus that is supported by our solutions, our unique deployment model allows us to provide the right services combined with experienced engagement leaders and methodologies that help our clients solve problems and create value. From a talent perspective, unlike our competitors, we offer more opportunities for the billable professional and are viewed as a better partner for their career objectives. The principal competitive factors in attracting qualified candidates are salaries and benefits; availability and variety of opportunities; quality, duration and location of assignments (if not remote/hybrid); and responsiveness to requests for placement. Many people seeking contract employment through us may also be pursuing employment through other means. Therefore, the speed at which we assign prospective professionals and the availability of attractive and appropriate assignments are important factors in our ability to fill open positions.  3 From a client perspective, the principal competitive factors in obtaining and retaining clients are properly assessing the clients’ specific job and project requirements, the appropriateness of the professional assigned to the client, the price of services and monitoring our clients’ satisfaction. Although we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors and maintain an intimacy with our clients that enables us to successfully compete in the market, we expect competition to continue to increase. Unlike our competitors, particularly in the traditional consulting space, we do not rely upon a bench to support us and rather use our database and a deep labor pool of highly skilled technical talent developed over decades to provide and build teams that offer our clients a full suite of services from staff augmentation to traditional consulting. This shared resource model provides sophisticated project delivery capabilities with a cost advantage that have enabled us to grow above industry averages. Human Capital People are the core of ASGN. Our diverse talent pool helps build a strong workforce and maintain our competitive advantage. As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 3,900 internal employees, including staffing consultants, regional sales directors, account managers, recruiters and corporate office employees. We support our employees and contract professionals through the following initiatives: Diversity, Equity and Inclusion  — Based on our latest census data, women accounted for approximately 43 percent of our internal workforce and non-white employees accounted for approximately 39 percent of our internal workforce. ASGN has diversity, equity and inclusion ("DEI") training, recruitment, retention and advancement programs across all brands, which include mandatory training to raise awareness and eliminate unconscious bias in hiring and promotion practices. In addition, Apex Systems has a DEI manager and a program designed to encourage and support personal and professional development for employees from all ethnicities, races, religions and backgrounds and empower more women to become leaders. We are intentionally elevating our corporate culture across our brands and aim to be a leader in all areas of corporate social responsibility. We are making company-wide commitments to increasing ethnic and racial diversity, as well as gender equality across all levels of employment, including leadership positions. In 2021, we reached our goal to increase diversity in our Board of Directors and now have three Board members who are women, and two members who identify as non-white on our 11-member Board. Work Practices and Employee Well-Being  — Our training and development opportunities address, among other things, ethics and integrity; diversity and workplace inclusion; discrimination and harassment; unconscious bias; cybersecurity, privacy and information security; and workplace safety. In 2020, we added COVID-19 trainings to ensure the safety of all of our employees and to establish workplace policies that protect our employees, contract professionals and clients from COVID-19-related risks. Also in 2020, when most of our workforce began working remotely, we began supporting flexible work schedules for our working parents. We reward employees with competitive compensation and benefits packages, including medical, dental and vision plans; short- and long-term disability; life and accident insurance; health savings accounts and flexible spending accounts; and savings plans. We further support our employees emotional and physical health with wellness programming and personal growth workshops. Employee Engagement, Retention and Development  — We are committed to career advancement through training and development that supports both personal and professional growth. Employees are provided with a comprehensive training program of continued education that helps them stay ahead and deliver excellent results, including continued education and professional development. To promote more employee engagement in areas that are most meaningful to our diverse array of employees, we are supporting the development of Employee Resource Groups ("ERGs"). ERGs are voluntary, employee-led groups whose aim is to foster a diverse and inclusive workplace aligned with the organizations they serve and are designed to provide personal support and/or career development and create a safe space where employees can bring their whole selves to the table. They are also designed to help diverse employees be better prepared to move up within the organization. All our Commercial Segment divisions now have ERGs in place, while our Federal Government Segment is earnestly working to develop ERGs in 2022. The following ERGs are currently in place or are in development: Black, Experienced Professionals (50+), Inclusive Cultures, Interfaith, LGBTQ+, Parents/Caregivers, Military Families and Women.  Collaborative Performance Management  — We strongly support the belief that our employees should be the primary drivers of their own career growth. Employees are encouraged to seek opportunities that align with their long-term career goals, whether that be lateral job changes, cross-functional training, serving on committees or special projects, or any activity that will help to progress their career. Our performance management process emphasizes clear goals with timely and constructive feedback. We encourage you to visit our website for more detailed information regarding our Human Capital programs and initiatives. Nothing on our website shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this 2021 10-K. Government Regulation   We take reasonable steps to ensure that our contract professionals possess all current licenses and certifications required for each placement. We provide state-mandated workers’ compensation insurance, unemployment insurance and professional liability insurance for our internal employees and our contract professionals who are our employees. These expenses have a direct effect on our costs of services, margins and likelihood of achieving or maintaining profitability.   For a further discussion of government regulation associated with our business, see  Part I, Item 1A.   Risk Factors .   4 Available Information and Access to Reports   We electronically file our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and all amendments to those reports and statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains an internet site  sec.gov  that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information technology regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. You may also read and copy any of our reports that are filed with the SEC by visiting:   • Our website,  asgn.com ; or • By contacting our Investor Relations Department at (818) 878-7900. Our reports are available through any of the foregoing means and are available free of charge on our website as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also available on our website are copies of our Code of Ethics for the Principal Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters for the committees of our Board of Directors. We intend to disclose any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of our Code of Ethics for Principal Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers on our website promptly after the amendment or waiver has been granted.  5 Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to various risks, including, but not limited to those described below, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and as a result, could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Profitability and Operational Risks If we are not able to remain competitive in obtaining and retaining clients, our future growth will suffer. Many of our agreements may be terminated by clients at will and the termination of a significant number of such agreements would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. The professional staffing and consulting services industry is highly competitive and fragmented with limited barriers to entry. We compete in national, regional and local markets with full-service agencies and in regional and local markets with specialized contract staffing agencies and consulting businesses. The success of our business depends upon our ability to continually secure new orders from clients and to fill those orders with our contract professionals. Most of our agreements with clients do not provide for exclusive use of our services, many of our agreements may be terminated at will and, in some instances, we provide services without entering into contracts. As such, clients are free to place orders with our competitors. If clients terminate a significant number of our staffing and consulting agreements or do not use us for future assignments and we are unable to generate new work to replace lost revenues, the growth of our business could be adversely affected and our revenues and results of operations could be harmed. As a result, it is imperative to our business that we maintain positive relationships with our clients. We are expanding our light deliverables-based professional services model whereby we perform certain project oversight functions. If we are not able to comply with these performance requirements, our revenues and relationships with our clients may be adversely affected. To the extent that competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, we could lose revenues and our margins could decline, which could harm our operating results and cause the trading price of our stock to decline. We expect competition for clients to increase in the future, and the success and growth of our business depends on our ability to remain competitive. In addition, we participate in a number of third-party contracts as a subcontractor and that requires us to participate in vendor management contracts, which may subject us to greater risks or lower margins. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified contract professionals, our business could be adversely affected. Our business is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract and retain contract professionals who possess the skills, experience and licenses which may be required to meet the specified requirements of our clients. We compete for such contract professionals with other temporary staffing and consulting companies and with our clients and potential clients. There can be no assurance that qualified professionals will be available to us in adequate numbers to staff our temporary assignments. Moreover, our contract professionals are often hired to become regular employees of our clients and their employment is terminable at will. Attracting and retaining contract professionals depends on several factors, including our ability to provide contract professionals with desirable assignments and competitive wages and benefits. The cost of attracting and retaining contract professionals in the future may be higher than we anticipate if there is an increase in competitive wages and benefits and, as a result, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our clients, our likelihood of achieving or maintaining profitability could decline. In periods of low unemployment, there may be a shortage of and significant competition for, the skilled contract professionals sought by our clients. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of contract professionals to meet client demand, we may be required to forgo revenue opportunities, which may hurt the growth of our business. In periods of high unemployment, contract professionals frequently opt for full-time employment directly with clients and, due to a large pool of available candidates, clients are able to directly hire and recruit qualified candidates without the involvement of staffing agencies. If we are unable to meet our expectations for growth, our future results are likely to be adversely affected. Over the past several years, we have experienced revenue and earnings growth both organically and through acquisitions. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue this pace of growth in the future or meet our strategic objectives for growth. Our growth could be adversely affected by many factors, including future technology industry conditions, macroeconomic events such as the ongoing global pandemic, competition and labor market trends or regulations. If our growth rate slows, or we fail to grow at the pace anticipated and we unsuccessful in our growth initiatives and strategies, our financial results could be less than our expectations or those of investors or analysts. Our business strategy also includes continuing efforts to integrate and optimize our organization, programs, technology and delivery of services to make us a more agile and effective competitor, to reduce the cost of operating our business and to increase our operating profit and operating profit margin. We may not be successful in our continuing integration and optimization efforts, which may cause us to fail to achieve the cost savings we anticipate or limit our ability to scale growth. Further, we may fail to prevent the return of costs eliminated in these efforts. If we are not successful in implementing our integration and optimization efforts, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. A loss or reduction in revenues from one or more large client accounts could have a material adverse impact on our business. During 2021, revenue from various organizations within the U.S. federal government were approximately 25.2 percent of consolidated revenues, and no other client represented more than 10 percent of revenues. All of our government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. Further, our large commercial clients may  6 enter into non-exclusive arrangements with several staffing firms and the client is generally able to terminate our contracts on short notice without penalty. The deterioration of the financial condition or business prospects of these large clients, or a change in their strategy around the use of our services, could reduce their need for our services and result in a significant decrease in the revenues and earnings we derive from them. The loss of one or more of our large national or multinational clients, or a significant decrease in their demand for our services, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We may not successfully make or integrate acquisitions, which could harm our business and growth. As part of our growth strategy, we have made numerous acquisitions, and we intend to continue to pursue select acquisitions in the future. We compete with other companies in the professional staffing and consulting industries for acquisition opportunities and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or be able to complete future acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. In making acquisitions, we may pay substantial amounts of cash, incur debt or issue securities to finance our acquisitions, which would adversely affect our liquidity or capital resources or result in dilution to our stockholders. There also can be no assurance that we will realize the benefits expected from any transaction or receive a favorable return on investment from our acquisitions. All of our acquisitions have been integrated into the business. The integration of an acquisition involves a number of factors that may affect our operations. These factors include diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, difficulties or delay in the integration of acquired operations, retention of key personnel, significant unanticipated costs or legal liabilities, and tax and accounting issues. Furthermore, once we have integrated an acquired business, the business may not achieve anticipated levels of revenue, profitability or productivity, or otherwise perform as expected. Any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with the terms of our debt agreements could affect our operating flexibility.  Our outstanding debt at December 31, 2021 included a term loan of $490.8 million under our senior secured credit facility due 2025 and $550.0 million of 4.625 percent unsecured senior notes due 2028. Our term loan has a variable interest rate, making us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates. Additionally, we use a portion of our cash flow from operations for interest payments on our debt rather than for our operations.  Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants under our debt instruments could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the requirement to repay such borrowings before their due date. Some covenants are tied to our operating results and thus may be breached if we do not perform as expected. We expect to use cash on hand and cash flows from operations to pay our expenses and repay our debt. If we do not have enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow additional funds. The lenders may require fees and expenses to be paid or other changes to terms in connection with waivers or amendments. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and/or rates. Changes to global financial markets, including the use of benchmark interest rates, may make it difficult for us to predict our future interest expenses. Our senior secured credit facility uses the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate.  LIBOR is the subject of recent national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. As result of these reforms, LIBOR was phased out starting on January 1, 2022 for the one-week and two-month USD LIBOR settings and is expected to be phased out starting on July 1, 2023 for the remaining USD LIBOR settings. The U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions, is considering replacing LIBOR with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or “SOFR”, a new index calculated by short-term repurchase agreements, backed by Treasury securities. At this time, it is not possible to definitively predict the effect of any changes to  LIBOR or any establishment of alternative benchmark rates, including SOFR. Our senior secured credit facility provides that in the event LIBOR rates are no longer available, we and our lenders will negotiate in good faith to adopt a replacement benchmark rate. We may incur increased interest expense using any such replacement benchmark rates, which could have an adverse effect on us, including our costs of funds, access to capital markets and financial results. An impairment in the carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets could require a write down that materially and adversely affects our results of operations and net worth. As of December 31, 2021, we had $1.6 billion of goodwill and $487.9 million of net acquired intangible assets. We review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets (consisting entirely of trademarks) for impairment at least annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Intangible assets having finite lives are amortized over their useful lives and are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We may be required to record a charge, which could be material, in our financial statements during the period in which we determine an impairment has occurred. Impairment charges could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in the periods that such charges are recorded. 7 Risks Related to Government Contracts We derive significant revenues from contracts and task orders awarded through a competitive bidding process. Our revenues and profitability may be adversely impacted if we fail to compete effectively in such processes. Our contracts and task orders with the federal government are awarded through a competitive bidding process, which creates significant competition and pricing pressure. We spend time and resources to prepare bids and proposals for contracts. Some of these contracts may not be awarded to us or, if awarded, we may not receive meaningful task orders under these contracts. We may encounter delays and additional expenses if our competitors protest or challenge contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding, and any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts, we may be prevented from providing to customers services that are purchased under those contracts for a number of years. In addition, upon the expiration of a contract, if the customer requires further services of the type provided by the contract, there is frequently a competitive rebidding process. There can be no assurance that we will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract, and the termination or non-renewal of any of our significant contracts could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Our earnings and profitability may vary based on the mix of our contracts and may be adversely affected by our failure to accurately estimate and manage costs, time and resources. Our Federal Government Segment generates revenues under various types of contracts: firm-fixed-price, cost reimbursable, and time and materials. Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract. Under firm-fixed-price contracts, we perform specific tasks and services for a fixed price. Compared with cost reimbursable, firm-fixed-price contracts generally offer higher margin opportunities, but involve greater financial risk because we bear the impact of cost overruns. Failure to accurately estimate costs, resources and technology needed to perform our contracts or to effectively manage and control our costs during the performance of work could result in reduced profits or in losses. Under cost reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs plus a profit margin or fee. These contracts generally have lower profitability and less financial risk. Under time and materials contracts, we are reimbursed for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. We assume financial risk on time and materials contracts because we assume the risk of performing those contracts at negotiated hourly rates. We may not realize the full value of our Federal Government Segment contract backlog, which may result in lower revenues than anticipated.  Contract backlog, which was $3.0 billion at December 31, 2021, is a useful measure of potential future revenues for our Federal Government Segment. Contract backlog consists of contracts for which funding has been formally awarded (funded backlog of $0.5 billion at December 31, 2021) and unfunded backlog, which represents the estimated future revenues to be earned from negotiated contract awards for which funding has not been awarded and from unexercised contract options (unfunded backlog of 2.5 billion at December 31, 2021). The U.S. government's ability to elect to not exercise contract options or to modify, curtail or terminate our contracts makes the calculation of our Federal Government Segment contract backlog subject to numerous uncertainties. Due to the uncertain nature of our contracts with the U.S. government, we may never realize revenue from some of the engagements that are included in our contract backlog.  A significant loss or suspension of our facility security clearances with the federal government could lead to a reduction in our revenues, cash flows and operating results. We act as a contractor and a subcontractor to the U.S. federal government and many of its agencies. Some government contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to timely obtain security clearances, or we lose a facility clearance, a government agency client may terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. In addition, a security breach by us could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for federal government clients. We are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations related to government contracts, some of which are complex, and our failure to comply could result in fines or civil or criminal penalties, or suspension or debarment, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our federal government customers. Such laws and regulations may potentially impose added costs on our business and our failure to comply with them may lead to civil or criminal penalties, termination of our U.S. government contracts and/or suspension or debarment from contracting with U.S. government agencies. All of our U.S. government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions provide for the contractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source and could damage our reputation and impair our ability to compete for future contracts. Failure to comply with regulations and required practices and procedures could harm our reputation or influence the award of new contracts. 8 Changes in U.S. government spending or budgetary priorities, the failure of government budgets to be approved on a timely basis, or delays in contract awards and other procurement activity may significantly and adversely affect our future financial results. Our business depends upon continued U.S. government expenditures on intelligence, defense, homeland security, federal health IT and other programs that we support. The U.S. government conducts periodic reviews of U.S. defense strategies and priorities, which may shift Department of Defense budgetary priorities, reduce overall spending, or delay contract or task order awards for defense-related programs from which we would otherwise expect to derive a significant portion of our future revenues. Any of these changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or contract renewals. Any new contracting requirements or procurement methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement. Our revenues, cash flows and operating results could be adversely affected by spending caps or changes in budgetary priorities, as well as by delays in the government budget process, program starts or the award of contracts or task orders under contracts. Audits by U.S. government agencies for contracts with federal government clients could result in unfavorable audit results that could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions and could harm our reputation and relationships with our customers and adversely impact results of operations. Federal government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and the Defense Contract Management Agency, routinely audit and investigate government contracts and government contractors’ administrative processes and systems. These agencies review our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. Cybersecurity and Technology Risks The failure to prevent a cybersecurity incident affecting our systems could result in the disruption of our services or the disclosure or misuse of sensitive information, which could harm our reputation, decrease demand for our services and products, expose us to liability, penalties and remedial costs, or otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. Our daily business operations depend on our information technology systems for a wide variety of functions, including, among other things, identifying staffing resources, matching personnel with client assignments and managing our accounting and financial reporting functions. In conducting our business, we routinely collect and retain personal information on these systems about our employees and contract professionals and their dependents including, without limitation, full names, social security numbers, addresses, birth dates and payroll-related information.  Any information-technology systems are at risk of being compromised, whether through malicious activity or human or technological error. Although we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade our information security technologies, and we have implemented security controls to help protect the security and privacy of our business information, our information technology systems are subject to potential security breaches through third-party service providers, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, business email compromise and cybersecurity threats, including denial of service attacks, viruses, ransomware or other malicious software programs, and third parties gaining unauthorized access to our information technology systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or confidential information, corrupting data or causing operational disruption. We are continuously exposed to unauthorized attempts to compromise such sensitive information through cyber-attacks, insider threats and other information security threats, including physical break-ins and malicious insiders, and we have, from time to time, experienced security incidents. For example, in November 2020, one of our divisions experienced a network intrusion resulting in the compromise of former employee information for that division. We incurred costs relating to this event, as well as costs to retain third-party consultants and forensic experts to investigate the attack and assist with remediation. We also invested in tightening security of our information technology infrastructure, systems and network. The incident did not have a material impact on our business, operations or financial results. Any security incident that results in the compromise of personal information we collect and retain, or that otherwise disrupts or negatively impacts our operations, could harm our reputation, lead to customer attrition, and expose us to regulatory enforcement action or litigation. Because the techniques used in cyber attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time, we may face difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate security measures to prevent security breaches. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, computer and network failures, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or platforms, flaws in third-party software or services, terrorist attacks and similar events. All of these risks are also applicable wherever we rely on outside vendors to provide services. 9 Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we cannot successfully keep pace with technological changes in the development and implementation of our services. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the development and implementation of our services. We rely on a variety of technologies to support important functions in our business, including the recruitment, placement and monitoring of our contract professionals, our billings, and candidate and client data analytics. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, such as emerging job and resume posting services, appropriately implement new technologies, or evolve our business at sufficient speed and scale in response to such developments, or if we do not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments, our services, results of operations and ability to develop and maintain our business could be adversely affected. Legal and Regulatory Risks Significant legal actions and claims could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities, result in damage to our business reputation, result in the discontinuation of our client relationships and adversely affect our recruitment and retention efforts. We employ people internally and in the workplaces of other businesses. Our ability to control or influence the workplace environment of our clients is limited. Further, many of the individuals that we place with our clients have access to client information systems and confidential information. As the employer of record of our contract professionals, we incur a risk of liability to our contract professionals for various workplace events, including claims of physical injury, discrimination, harassment or failure to protect confidential personal information. Other inherent risks include possible claims of errors and omissions, intentional misconduct, release, misuse or misappropriation of client intellectual property, criminal activity, torts, or other claims. We also have been subject to legal actions alleging vicarious liability, negligent hiring, discrimination, sexual harassment, retroactive entitlement to employee benefits or pay, violation of wage and hour requirements, retaliation and related legal theories. These types of actions could involve large claims and significant defense costs. We may be subject to liability in such cases even if the contribution to the alleged injury was minimal. Moreover, in most instances, we are required to indemnify clients against some or all of these risks and we could be required to pay substantial sums to fulfill our indemnification obligations.  A failure of any of our employees internally, or contract professionals in clients' workplaces, to observe our policies and guidelines intended to reduce these risks could result in negative publicity, injunctive relief, criminal investigations and/or charges, payment of monetary damages or fines, or other material adverse impacts on our business. Claims raised by clients stemming from the improper actions of our contract professionals, even if without merit, could cause us to incur significant expense associated with the costs or damages related to such claims. Further, such claims by clients could damage our business reputation and result in the discontinuation of client relationships. Any associated negative publicity could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified contract professionals in the future. We proactively address many of these issues with our robust compliance program. Further, to protect ourselves from the costs and damages of significant legal actions and claims, we maintain workers’ compensation, errors and omissions, cybersecurity, employment practices and general liability insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. Our insurance policies include a retention amount and may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. In addition, we face various employment-related risks not covered by insurance, such as wage and hour laws and employment tax responsibility. If we do not maintain adequate insurance coverage or are made party to significant uninsured claims, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to government regulation, which in the future could restrict the types of employment services we are permitted to offer or result in additional or increased costs that reduce our revenues and earnings. The professional staffing and IT services industry is regulated in the United States and other countries in which we operate. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the employer/employee relationship, such as those related to payment of federal, state and local payroll and unemployment taxes for our corporate employees and contractor professional employees, tax withholding, social security or retirement benefits, licensing, wage and hour requirements, paid sick leave, paid family leave and other leaves, employee benefits, pay equity, non-discrimination, sexual harassment and workers’ compensation; and we must further comply with immigration laws and a wide variety of notice and administrative requirements, such as record keeping, written contracts, notification and reporting. We are also subject to U.S. laws and regulations relating to government contracts with federal agencies. In certain other countries, we may not be considered the legal employers of our temporary personnel, however we are still responsible for collecting taxes and social security deductions and transmitting these amounts to the taxing authorities. In addition, we are subject to data privacy, protection and security laws and regulations, the most significant of which are the European General Data Protection Act ("GDPR") and the U.K.’s Data Protection Act 2018 (which implements the GDPR into U.K. law).  These laws impose stringent data protection requirements on   personal information and provide for significant penalties for noncompliance. These laws impact our U.S. operations as well as our European operations as they apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information among the Company and its subsidiaries.  Certain U.S. states have also enacted data privacy laws requiring security measures for personal information, including California, Virginia and Colorado, and we expect that other states will adopt similar legislation. Any non-compliance with the data privacy laws applicable to our business could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines and other penalties that could potentially have an adverse effect our operations and reputation. Future changes in the laws or governmental regulations affecting our business may result in the prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services that we are permitted to offer, or the imposition of new or additional compliance requirements that could increase our costs and reduce our revenues and earnings. Due to the substantial number of state and local jurisdictions in which we operate, there also is a risk that we may be unable to adequately monitor actual or proposed changes in, or the interpretation of, the laws or governmental regulations  10 of such states and localities. Any delay in our compliance with changes in such laws or governmental regulations could result in potential fines, penalties, or other sanctions for non-compliance. In addition, although we may elect to bill some or all of any additional costs to our customers, there can be no assurances that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our customers in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount to fully cover any increased costs as a result of future changes in laws or government regulations. Our business may be materially affected by changes to fiscal and tax policies that could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our business is subject to taxation in the United States and the foreign jurisdictions where we operate. Due to economic and political   conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes made by the current administration in the United States and in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or by changes in the tax laws or their interpretation. Various levels of government also are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue. Further changes in tax laws in the United States or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or in the interpretation of such laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We are subject to various business and regulatory risks associated with international operations, which could increase our costs, cause our results of operations to fluctuate, and adversely affect our business.  We conduct business outside the United States primarily in Canada and Europe and we have delivery centers in Mexico and India. Our international operations, which in the aggregate represented less than two percent of our consolidated revenues in 2021, expose us to, among other things, operational, regulatory and political risks in the countries in which we operate.  General Risks U.S. and global market and economic developments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for the professional staffing and consulting services that we provide is significantly affected by global market and economic conditions. As economic activity slows, many clients or potential clients reduce their use of and reliance upon contract professionals. During periods of reduced economic activity, we may also be subject to increased competition for market share and pricing pressure. As a result, a recession or periods of reduced economic activity could harm our business and results of operations. The loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect the execution of our business strategy and our financial results. We believe that the successful execution of our business strategy and our ability to build upon our business and acquisitions of new businesses depends on the continued employment of key members of our senior management team and good succession plans for their retirement or other departure. As the Company is expecting to have key personnel retire over the next few years, we need to implement appropriate succession plans, and if we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel or effectively implement appropriate succession plans, it could have a material adverse impact to our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. We have provided short-term and long-term incentive compensation to our key management in an effort to retain them, and have prepared succession plans at such time their employment ends. However, if members of our senior management team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions or our succession plans are not adequate, we could incur significant costs and experience business disruption related to time spent on efforts to replace them, and our financial results and our business could be adversely affected. Failure of internal controls may leave us susceptible to errors and fraud. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Furthermore, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, would be detected, particularly in our newly acquired companies and international operations. If our internal controls are unsuccessful, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The trading price of our common stock has experienced significant volatility. The market price of our stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future, based on a variety of factors, including our operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy, and the staffing and consulting industries, announcements by our competitors, involvement in a significant litigation matter, a major change in our management or Board of Directors, short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions in shares of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced historical volatility that is unrelated to the operating performance of our Company. Broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Among other things, volatility in our stock price could mean that investors will not be able to sell their shares at or above the prices they pay.  The volatility also could impair our ability in the future to offer common stock as a source of additional capital or as consideration in the acquisition of other businesses, or as compensation for our key employees. 11 Our business is subject to disruptions and other risks of health crises, earthquakes, fire, floods and other catastrophic events. Our business relies heavily on the health and safety of our employees, contract professionals and customers and the continuity of our business systems. Adverse events, such as harm to our offices, the inability to travel and other matters affecting the regions or economies in which we operate could harm our business. In the event of a major disruption caused by a natural disaster or man-made problem, or outbreaks of pandemic diseases such as COVID-19, we may be unable to continue our operations and may experience decline in revenues, system interruptions and reputational harm. Acts of terrorism and other geopolitical unrest could also cause disruptions in our business or the business of our clients, vendors, or the economy as a whole. All of the aforementioned risks may be further increased if our disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate. Similarly, if our clients are harmed by any of these events, their demand for our services may decrease, which would decrease our revenues and harm our business. A significant disaster or disruption, whether man-made or natural, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. The impact of a health crisis such as the COVID-19 pandemic our business, operations and future financial performance could include, but are not limited to,  adverse impacts to our operating income, operating margin, net income, earnings per share and operating cash flows, as expenses may not decrease at the same rate as revenues decline. In addition, our quarterly and annual revenue growth rates and expenses as a percentage of our revenues may differ significantly from our historical rates, and our future operating results may fall below expectations.  Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control that our stockholders consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the impact of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • Our Board has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy in the Board upon the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our Board until the next applicable annual meeting of stockholders. • Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the Board or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. Further, our Board is divided into three classes and only one class is up for election each year. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. • Our Board may issue, without stockholder approval, up to one million shares of undesignated or "blank check" preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated or "blank check" preferred stock makes it possible for our Board to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt by, or make it more difficult for, a third- party to acquire us. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any large stockholders who hold 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting capital stock in a merger or business combination unless the holder has held the stock for three years, the Board has expressly approved the merger or business transaction, or at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting capital stock not owned by such large stockholder approves the merger or the transaction. These provisions of Delaware law may have the impact of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control and may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over its market price. In addition, our Board could rely on these provisions of Delaware law to discourage, prevent, or delay an acquisition of us. 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable.   Item 2. Properties   As of December 31, 2021, we leased office space in the following locations. We believe that our facilities are suitable and adequate for our current operations. Location Square Feet Lease Expiration ASGN and Apex Systems  Headquarters Richmond, Virginia 78,000 October 2024 ECS Headquarters Fairfax, Virginia 126,300 June 2024 Branch offices  (1) United States, Canada, United Kingdom, and Spain 794,600 January 2022 through October 2027 Delivery Centers Mexico and India 40,500 May 2023 and August 2026 ___________________ (1)  We have  129 branch office locations that occupy spaces ranging from approximately 100 to 47,000 square feet with lease terms that range from two months to 11 years. Item 3. Legal Proceedings   We are involved in various legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. However, based on the facts currently available, we do not believe that the disposition of matters that are pending or asserted will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 13 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Common Stock   — Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, under the symbol ASGN. At February 22, 2022 we had 51.6 million shares outstanding, 22 holders of record and an indeterminate number of beneficial owners of our common stock held through brokers and other intermediaries. Dividend Information   — Since inception, we have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and we have no present intention of paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our Board periodically reviews our dividend policy to determine whether the declaration of dividends is appropriate. The terms of our credit facility restrict our ability to pay dividends. The restriction is variable based upon our leverage ratio and certain other circumstances, as outlined in the agreement. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plan   — Information responsive to this item will be set forth in Company’s definitive proxy statement for use in connection with its 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "2022 Proxy Statement") to be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the end of the Company’s fiscal year and is incorporated herein by reference. Stock Performance Graph   — The following graph compares the performance of ASGN’s common stock price during the period from December 31, 2016 to December 31, 2021 with the composite prices of companies listed on the NYSE and of companies included in the SIC Code No. 736—Personnel Supply Services Companies Index. The companies listed in the SIC Code No. 736 include peer companies in the same industry or line of business as ASGN. The graph depicts the results of investing $100 in our common stock, the NYSE market index, and an index of the companies listed in the SIC Code No. 736 on December 31, 2016, and assumes that dividends were reinvested, where applicable, during the period.   The comparisons shown in the graph below are based upon historical data, and we caution stockholders that the stock price performance shown in the graph below is not indicative of, nor intended to forecast, potential future performance.      At December 31,  2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 ASGN $ 100.00  $ 145.54  $ 123.41  $ 160.71  $ 189.15  $ 279.44  SIC Code No. 736 Index $ 100.00  $ 129.86  $ 108.10  $ 134.23  $ 140.94  $ 182.92  NYSE Market Index $ 100.00  $ 118.90  $ 108.45  $ 136.36  $ 145.89  $ 176.06  14 Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities  — None. Common Stock Repurchases  —On March 18, 2021, the Board of Directors approved a two-year stock repurchase program under which the Company may repurchase up to $250.0 million of its common stock, then, on December 9, 2021, the Board of Directors approved a two-year stock repurchase program under which the Company may repurchase up to $350.0 million of its common stock and this superseded the previous program. Under these programs, the Company repurchased 1.6 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $183.3 million in 2021. Under terms of the programs, purchases can be made in the open market or under a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan.  The Company's repurchases of its common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2021, and the approximate dollar value of shares that may be purchased under the program as of December 31, 2021, are shown in the table below. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number  (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares That May Yet be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs  (in millions) October 176,790  $ 118.61  176,790  $ 108.6  November 159,422  $ 125.44  159,422  $ 88.6  December 178,634  $ 122.89  178,634  $ 335.0  Total 514,846  $ 122.21  514,846  $ 335.0  In connection with our stock-based compensation plans, during the three months ended December 31, 2021, 17,483 shares of our common stock with an aggregate value of $2.1 million were tendered by employees for payment of applicable statutory tax withholdings. These shares are excluded from the table above. Item 6. Selected Financial Data None. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this 2021 10-K, including the  Special Note on Forward-Looking Statements  and  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors. OVERVIEW ASGN Incorporated ("ASGN," "we," or "us") is one of the foremost providers of information technology (IT) and professional services and creative digital marketing across commercial and government sectors. We operate through two segments: Commercial and Federal Government. Our Commercial Segment provides assignment and consulting information technology and creative digital marketing services to Fortune 1000 and mid-market clients across the United States, Canada and Europe. Our Federal Government Segment delivers advanced solutions in cloud, cybersecurity, artificial intelligence, machine learning, application and IT modernization, science and engineering to departments and agencies in the federal government. On August 17, 2021, we sold the Oxford Global Resources business unit (the "Oxford business"), see  Note 4. Discontinued Operations . As a result of this disposition, the Oxford business has been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented herein and all segment data has been recast to remove Oxford as a reportable segment.   Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"), which require us to make certain assumptions and related estimates affecting the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates.  Critical accounting policies are those we believe are both most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because we must make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. We believe the accounting policies and estimates most critical in understanding the judgments involved in preparing our financial statements are goodwill and acquired intangible assets.  Recognition of Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets  — Determining the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets requires management's judgment, the use of significant estimates and assumptions and, in some cases, the utilization of independent valuation experts. The most critical assumptions utilized in this determination are the future cash flow estimates associated with the acquired businesses and the discount rates applied to those cash flow estimates.  Recoverability of Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets  — Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change, such as material deterioration in performance that would indicate an impairment may exist. We perform an annual impairment assessment as of October 31st for each of our reporting units. When evaluating goodwill for impairment, we may first perform a qualitative assessment (“step zero” of the impairment test) to determine whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit is impaired. If we decide not to perform a qualitative assessment, or if we determine that it is more likely than not the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, then we perform a quantitative assessment (“step one” of the impairment test), and calculate the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the estimated fair value, an impairment charge would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount to its estimated fair value.  Given the low risk of impairment identified in the prior year, and no negative trends in the current year, we performed a qualitative assessment for the October 31, 2021 annual impairment evaluation for all reporting units. By review of macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, overall financial performance compared with prior projections, and other relevant entity-specific events, we determined it was more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying amount. Therefore it was concluded that there were no indicators of impairment.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2021 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2020 Revenues Revenues for the year were $4.0 billion, up 14.5 percent from 2020 primarily as a result of double-digit organic growth of our Commercial Segment and the contribution of $124.4 million from acquired businesses. Excluding the contribution from acquisitions, revenues were up 10.9 percent.  The table below shows our revenues by segment (in millions). % of Total  2021 2020 Change 2021 2020 Change Commercial: Assignment $ 2,285.9  $ 2,117.0  8.0  % 57.0  % 60.4  % (3.4) % Consulting 641.2  380.9  68.3  % 16.0  % 10.9  % 5.1  % 2,927.1  2,497.9  17.2  % 73.0  % 71.3  % 1.7  % Federal Government 1,082.4  1,004.2  7.8  % 27.0  % 28.7  % (1.7) % Consolidated $ 4,009.5  $ 3,502.1  14.5  % 100.0  % 100.0  % Revenues from our Commercial Segment were up 17.2 percent from 2020 as a result of double-digit growth in high-margin commercial consulting, creative digital marketing and permanent placement services and mid-single-digit growth in IT assignment services. The growth in our consulting revenues was due to a combination of factors, including broad-based industry demand, increase in technical capabilities, the expansion of our near-shore delivery center in Mexico and the contribution from acquired businesses. Revenues included a contribution of $40.5 million from acquired businesses (all commercial consulting services businesses) and excluding that contribution revenues were up 15.6 percent. Within the Commercial Segment, IT services and solutions revenues, which accounted for 83.2 percent of the segment's revenues, were up 15.6 percent from 2020. Creative digital marketing and permanent placement revenues, which combined accounted for 16.8 percent of the segment's revenues in the period, were up 25.5 percent. All divisions in the segment (IT services and solutions, creative digital marketing and permanent placement) were up double-digits from 2020.  Commercial consulting services revenues (virtually all IT services), which accounted for 21.9 percent of the segment's revenues, were $641.2 million, up 68.3 percent from 2020. Assignment revenues, which accounted for 78.1 percent of the segment's revenues, were $2.3 billion, up 8.0 percent driven by double-digit growth in creative digital marketing and permanent placement revenues and mid-single-digit growth in IT assignment revenues. All five industry verticals: (i) financial services, (ii) consumer and industrials, (iii) healthcare, (iv) technology, media and telecom and (v) business and government services were up from 2020.  Revenues from our Federal Government Segment were up 7.8 percent from 2020. Revenues includes a contribution of $83.9 million from acquired businesses. Excluding that contribution, revenues were only slightly below 2020, which had benefited from higher spending levels under two cost reimbursable contracts and from a low-margin web services contract that the segment elected not to renew in the third quarter of 2021.   Gross Profit and Gross Margin The table below shows gross profit and gross margin by segment (in millions). Gross Profit Gross Margin 2021 2020 Change 2021 2020 Change Commercial 934.8  778.3  20.1  % 31.9  % 31.2  % 0.7  % Federal Government 207.6  168.9  22.9  % 19.2  % 16.8  % 2.4  % Consolidated $ 1,142.4  $ 947.2  20.6  % 28.5  % 27.0  % 1.5  % Gross profit is comprised of revenues less costs of services, which consist primarily of compensation for our contract professionals, allowable materials and consultant assignment expenses. Consolidated gross profit increased 20.6 percent on revenue growth of 14.5 percent. Gross margin was 28.5 percent, an expansion of 150 basis points from 2020 and both segments reported expansion in gross margin. The expansion for the Commercial Segment was the result a shift in business mix toward high-margin revenue streams, driven by the double-digit growth of the segment's high-margin IT consulting, creative digital marketing and permanent placement services. The expansion for the Federal Government Segment was also driven by changes in business mix, related to a lower level of revenues from certain lower-margin cost reimbursable contracts and from a low-margin web services project, the contribution from the high-margin businesses acquired after the third quarter of last year and higher profitability on certain firm-fixed-price contracts with initial contract terms that ended during the period.  Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses consist primarily of compensation expense for our field operations and corporate staff, rent, information systems, marketing, telecommunications, public company expenses and other general and administrative expenses. SG&A expenses were $735.8 million (18.4 percent of revenues), compared with $615.0 million (17.6 percent of revenues) in 2020. The increase was commensurate with the growth in the business, the higher mix of high-margin commercial revenues (which carry a higher SG&A expense component than federal government services revenues), headcount investments to support the future growth of the business, higher incentive compensation and higher acquisition expenses. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets was $55.7 million, up from $51.0 million in 2020. This increase reflects a full year amortization on businesses acquired in 2020 and amortization on the three businesses acquired in 2021.   Interest Expense Interest expense was $37.5 million, down from $39.7 million in 2020, primarily resulting from the reduction of LIBOR. Interest expense was comprised of $25.4 million of interest on the unsecured senior notes, $9.7 million of interest on the senior secured credit facility, $1.8 million in amortization of deferred loan costs and $0.6 million related to amendments to the senior secured credit facility. The weighted-average borrowings outstanding was approximately $1.0 billion for 2021 and 2020 and the weighted-average interest rate was 3.4 percent, slightly down from 3.6 percent in 2020.  Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $81.6 million for 2021, up from $63.9 million in 2020, related to the growth in income before income taxes. The effective tax rate of 26.0 percent was slightly lower than the effective tax rate for 2020.  Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations was $231.8 million, up from $177.6 million in 2020 driven by the growth in the business and expansion of our gross margin. Income from Discontinued Operations Income from discontinued operations was $178.1 million. This included approximately $168.8 million gain on sale, net of income taxes related to the sale of the Oxford business. Net Income Net income of $409.9 million was comprised of income from continuing operations of $231.8 million and income from discontinued operations of $178.1 million. 15 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2020 COMPARED WITH THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019 Revenues Revenues for the year were 3.5 billion, an increase of 2.5 percent from 2019, which was achieved despite lower demand from our commercial customers related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Our operating performance was driven by the high growth of our Federal Government Segment and the growth of our Commercial Segment off trough-level revenues experienced in May of 2020. Revenues from our Commercial Segment, which accounted for 71.3 percent of total revenues, were down 4.6 percent year over year. Revenues from our Federal Government Segment, which accounted for 28.7 percent of total revenues, were up 25.8 percent year over year reflecting increased volume on certain existing programs, new contract awards and the contribution from acquired businesses. The table below shows our revenues by segment (in millions).  % of Total  2020 2019 Change 2020 2019 Change Commercial: Assignment $ 2,117.0  $ 2,288.3  (7.5) % 60.4  % 67.0  % (6.6) % Consulting 380.9  329.1  15.7  % 10.9  % 9.6  % 1.3  % 2,497.9  2,617.4  (4.6) % 71.3  % 76.6  % (5.3) % Federal Government 1,004.2  798.2  25.8  % 28.7  % 23.4  % 5.3  % Consolidated $ 3,502.1  $ 3,415.6  2.5  % 100.0  % 100.0  % Revenues from our Commercial Segment were down 4.6 percent year-over-year, resulting from lower customer demand attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic. Within the segment, IT services and solutions (84.3 percent of the segment's revenues) were slightly down from 2019. Consulting revenues (virtually all IT services and solutions) were up 15.7 percent from 2019, reflecting our increased focus on expanding our high-end consulting offerings. Creative digital marketing and permanent placement revenues (15.7 percent of the segment's revenues) were down 21.9 percent from 2019. Four of our five industry verticals were down from 2019, while financial services, our largest industry vertical (25.8 percent of commercial revenues), was up 10.6 percent.  Revenues from our Federal Government Segment were up 25.8 percent year over year. The increase was driven by a number of factors, including increased volume on certain existing programs, new contract awards and the contribution from the businesses acquired.  Gross Profit and Gross Margin The table below shows gross profit and gross margin by segment (in millions). Gross Profit Gross Margin 2020 2019 Change 2020 2019 Change Commercial 778.3  830.4  (6.3) % 31.2  % 31.7  % (0.5) % Federal Government 168.9  141.1  19.7  % 16.8  % 17.7  % (0.9) % Consolidated $ 947.2  $ 971.5  (2.5) % 27.0  % 28.4  % (1.4) % Consolidated gross profit was down 2.5 percent year over year. Our consolidated gross margin compressed approximately 140 basis points related to changes in business mix. This included a higher mix of revenues from the Federal Government Segment, which carries a lower gross margin than commercial revenues. Gross margin for both segments were down from 2019 related to changes in business mix. Gross margin on commercial revenues was down due to lower revenues from high-margin revenue streams (mainly creative digital marketing and permanent placement), partially offset by the higher mix of consulting revenues, which carries a higher margin than assignment revenues. Gross margin on federal government revenues was down due to a higher mix of revenues from certain programs under cost reimbursable contracts, which have lower margins than other contract types.  Selling, General and Administrative Expenses SG&A expenses were $ 615.0  million (17.6 percent of revenues), down from $ 645  million (18.9 percent of revenues) in 2019. This improvement related to effective expense management and cost containment in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which included lower incentive compensation and travel and entertainment expenses. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets was $ 51.0  million, up from $ 50.3  million in 2019. This increase reflects a full year amortization on business acquired in 2019 and amortization on the four businesses acquired in 2020.   16 Interest Expense Interest expense was $ 39.7  million, down 25.0 percent from $ 52.9  million in 2019. This improvement was the result of (i) a reduction in LIBOR, (ii) a 25 basis point reduction in the spread on our senior secured credit facility resulting from our debt refinancing in the fourth quarter of 2019, (iii) lower amortization of deferred loan costs and (iv) lower average borrowings outstanding in 2020. Interest expense was comprised of $25.4 million of interest on the unsecured senior notes, $12.6 million of interest on the senior secured credit facility, and $1.7 million in amortization of deferred loan costs. The weighted-average borrowings outstanding were $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion for 2020 and 2019, respectively. The weighted-average interest rate in 2020 was 3.6 percent, down from 4.3 percent in 2019.  Write-off of Loan Costs As a result of the 2019 amendment to our senior secured credit facility, we wrote-off $ 18.9  million of deferred loan costs.   Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $ 63.9  million for 2020, up from $ 54.7  million in 2019. The effective tax rate for the year was 26.5 percent, which was slightly lower than the effective tax rate for 2019.  Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations was $177.6 million, up from $149.7 million in 2019. Income from continuing operations for 2019 included a charge of $ 18.9  million ($13.9 million after income taxes) related to a write-off of deferred loan costs on our credit facility resulting from our debt refinancing in the fourth quarter of 2019. Income from Discontinued Operations Income from discontinued operations was $ 22.7  million. Net Income Net income of $200.3 million was comprised of income from continuing operations of $177.6 million and income from discontinued operations of $ 22.7  million. Federal Government Segment Contract Backlog Contract backlog is a useful measure of potential future revenues for our Federal Government Segment. Contract backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under awarded contracts including task orders and options. Contract backlog does not include potential value from contract awards that have been protested by competitors until the protest is resolved in our favor. Contract backlog does not include any estimate of future work expected under indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contracts or U.S. General Services Administration schedules. Contract backlog is segregated into funded contract backlog and negotiated unfunded contract backlog, which together make up total contract backlog. Funded contract backlog for contracts with U.S. government agencies primarily represents contracts for which funding has been formally awarded less revenues previously recognized on these contracts and does not include the unfunded portion of contracts where funding is incrementally awarded or authorized by the U.S. government even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years. Funded contract backlog for contracts with non-government agencies represents the estimated value of contracts, which may cover multiple future years, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts. Negotiated unfunded contract backlog represents the estimated future revenues to be earned from negotiated contract awards for which funding has not yet been awarded or authorized and from unexercised priced contract options. Contract backlog estimates are subject to change and may be affected by the execution of new contracts, the extension or early termination of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts and adjustments to estimates for previously included contracts. Changes in the funded contract backlog are also affected by the funding cycles of the government. December 31, (In millions) 2021 2020 Funded Contract Backlog $ 529.2  $ 444.5  Negotiated Unfunded Contract Backlog 2,472.0  2,201.7  Contract Backlog $ 3,001.2  $ 2,646.2  17 Federal Government Segment Book-to-Bill Ratio The book-to-bill ratio for our Federal Government Segment was 1.1 to 1.0 for the year ended  December 31 , 2021 . The book-to-bill ratio was calculated as the sum of the change in total contract backlog during the period plus revenues for the period, divided by revenues for the period. The contract backlog coverage ratio (backlog at  December 31 , 2021  divided by trailing-twelve-months of Federal Government Segment revenues) was 2.6 to 1.0. Liquidity and Capital Resources   Our working capital at December 31, 2021 was $858.5 million, and our cash and cash equivalents were $529.6 million. Our cash flows from operating activities have been our primary source of liquidity and have been sufficient to fund our working capital and capital expenditure needs. At December 31, 2021, we had full availability under our $250.0 million revolving credit facility. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, expected operating cash flows and availability under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fulfill our obligations, working capital requirements and capital expenditures for the next 12 months. Net cash provided by operating activities was $193.7 million in 2021, compared with $424.8 million in 2020. Operating cash flows in 2020 benefited from lower working capital requirements related to the decline in business activity stemming from COVID-19 and the deferral of $85.7 million in federal payroll taxes as provided by the CARES Act. The year-over-year decrease in net cash provided by operating activities is mainly the result of (i) investment in working capital to support growth in the business, (ii) the payment of taxes totaling $91.5 million related to the gain on the sale of the Oxford business and (iii) the payment of half of the deferred federal payroll taxes from 2020. Net cash provided by investing activities was $246.5 million in 2021 and included $503.8 million in net cash proceeds (before income taxes) from the sale of the Oxford business. Significant uses of cash in 2021 included $222.8 million used to acquire three IT consulting businesses and $34.7 million in capital expenditures. Net cash used in 2020 was $219.0 million and included $186.2 million used to acquire four IT consulting businesses and $32.6 million in capital expenditures. Net cash used in financing activities was $184.4 million in 2021, compared with $29.0 million in 2020. Net cash used in 2021 consisted primarily of $181.3 million to repurchase the Company's common stock compared with $27.9 million in 2020. Senior Secured Credit Facility  — The senior secured credit facility consists of a term B loan and a $250.0 million revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2021, the Company had $490.8 million outstanding under the term B loan and no outstanding borrowings under the revolver. Borrowings under the term B loan bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.75 percent, or the bank’s base rate plus 0.75 percent. Borrowings under the revolver bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.25 to 2.25 percent, or the bank’s base rate plus 0.25 to 1.25 percent, depending on leverage levels. A commitment fee of 0.20 to 0.35 percent is payable on the undrawn portion of the revolver. There are no required minimum principal payments on the facility until maturity. The facility is secured by substantially all of the Company's assets and includes various restrictive covenants. In July 2021, the Company amended its facility to, among other things, permit the sale of its Oxford business and allow the net sale proceeds (approximately $0.4 billion) to be used for future acquisitions and other permitted investments, provided the Company enters into binding commitments by August 2022 and completes those transactions by February 2023. Unsecured Senior Notes  — The Company has $550.0 million of unsecured senior notes due in 2028, which bear interest at 4.625 percent  payable semiannually in arrears on May 15 and November 15. These notes are unsecured obligations and subordinate to the senior secured credit facility. These notes contain certain customary limitations including, among other terms and conditions, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, engage in mergers and acquisitions, transfer or sell assets and make certain distributions.  Commitments and Contingencies   — The following table sets forth, on an aggregate basis, the amounts of specified contractual cash obligations required to be paid in the future periods shown (in millions):  Contractual Obligations Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Total Long-term debt obligations (1) $ 34.5  $ 69.1  $ 544.0  $ 584.8  $ 1,232.4  Operating Leases (2) 25.1  32.0  9.2  0.8  67.1  Purchase obligations (3) 13.7  8.9  —  —  22.6  $ 73.3  $ 110.0  $ 553.2  $ 585.6  $ 1,322.1  _______ (1)  Long-term debt obligations include interest calculated based on the rates in effect at December 31, 2021. (2)   Represents the future minimum lease payments for non-cancelable operating leases. (3)   Purchase obligations are non-cancelable job board service agreements and software subscriptions, maintenance and license agreements. For additional information about these contractual cash obligations, see  Notes 5. Leases, 9. Long-Term Debt and 10. Commitments and Contingencies  in  Part II, Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data .  Certain acquisitions completed in 2021 and 2020 contained provisions requiring the Company to pay contingent consideration in cash based on the achievement of certain specified earnings results in 2021 (see  Note 6. Acquisitions  in  Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ). At December 31, 2021, the fair value of the contingent consideration liability was $15.1 million. 18 We have retention policies for our workers’ compensation liability exposures. The workers' compensation loss reserves are based upon an actuarial report obtained from a third party and determined based on claims filed and claims incurred but not reported. We account for claims incurred but not yet reported based on estimates derived from historical claims experience and current trends of industry data. Changes in estimates, differences in estimates and actual payments for claims are recognized in the period that the estimates changed or the payments were made. The workers' compensation loss reserves were $2.4 million and $2.2 million, net of anticipated insurance and indemnification recoveries of $10.4 million and $10.9 million, at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. We have undrawn stand-by letters of credit outstanding to secure obligations for workers’ compensation claims and other obligations. The undrawn stand-by letters of credit were $4.0 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020. We have a deferred compensation plan liability of $15.6 million and $14.4 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, which was primarily included in other long-term liabilities. We established a rabbi trust to fund the deferred compensation plan (see  Note 16. Fair Value Measurements  in  Part II, Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ).    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   As of December 31, 2021, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. Accounting Standards Updates   See  Note 3. Accounting Standards Update  in  Part II, Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements.  