-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Q0SGzoe82yS8pS6aU2V1Jcwy84cFSIn0MbEONJHiec8AC4rF3toAMv99jS+984jB
 7fZJx+KgQ1pZM8OOdTaXqQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000893220-00-000308.txt : 20000323
<SEC-HEADER>0000893220-00-000308.hdr.sgml : 20000323
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000893220-00-000308
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19991231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20000322

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ADVANTA CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000096638
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS [6141]
		IRS NUMBER:				231462070
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-14120
		FILM NUMBER:		575842

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P.O. BOX 844
		STREET 2:		WELSH & MCKEAN ROADS
		CITY:			SPRING HOUSE
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			19477
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2154445051

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		C/O WELSH & MCKEAN ROADS
		STREET 2:		P.O. BOX 844
		CITY:			SPRING HOUSE
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			19477-0844

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TSO FINANCIAL CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19880306

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TEACHERS SERVICE ORGANIZATION INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19850812
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>10-K   DECEMBER 31  1999
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

                                       OR

[ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

        FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM                TO

                          COMMISSION FILE NO. 0-14120

                                 ADVANTA CORP.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

<TABLE>
<S>                                                   <C>
                      DELAWARE                                             23-1462070
    (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF ORGANIZATION)             (I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NO.)
        WELSH & MCKEAN ROADS, P. O. BOX 844,
             SPRING HOUSE, PENNSYLVANIA                                       19477
      (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)                             (ZIP CODE)
</TABLE>

       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (215) 657-4000

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                 TITLE OF EACH CLASS                        NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
                 -------------------                        -----------------------------------------
<S>                                                   <C>
                        NONE                                                   N/A
</TABLE>

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                      CLASS A COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE
                      CLASS B COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE
                                 CLASS A RIGHT
                                 CLASS B RIGHT
                             (TITLE OF EACH CLASS)

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K  Yes [ ].

     State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates
of the registrant. The aggregate market value shall be computed by reference to
the price at which the stock was sold, or the average bid and asked prices of
such stock, as of a specified date within 60 days prior to the date of filing.
(See definition of affiliate in Rule 405.)

     $136,254,626 as of March 15, 2000 which amount excludes the value of all
shares beneficially owned (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934) by officers and directors of the Company (however, this
does not constitute a representation or acknowledgment that any of such
individuals is an affiliate of the Registrant).

                   (APPLICABLE ONLY TO CORPORATE REGISTRANTS)

     Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's
classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

     As of March 15, 2000 there were 10,060,888 shares of the Registrant's Class
A Common Stock, $.01 par value, outstanding and 17,178,097 shares of the
Registrant's Class B Common Stock, $.01 par value, outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     List hereunder the following documents if incorporated by reference and the
Part of the Form 10-K (e.g., Part I, Part II, etc.) into which the document is
incorporated: (1) Any annual report to security holders; (2) Any proxy or
information statement; and (3) Any prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) or
(e) under the Securities Act of 1933. The listed documents should be clearly
described for identification purposes (e.g., annual report to security holders
for fiscal year ended December 24, 1980).

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
DOCUMENT                                                                   FORM 10-K REFERENCE
- --------                                                                   -------------------
<S>                                                             <C>
Definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Registrant's 2000                        Part III, Items 10-13
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A not later than 120 days following the end of
the Registrant's last fiscal year
</TABLE>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>   2

                                    PART I.

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

In this form 10-K, "Advanta", "we", "us", "our" and the "Company" refer to
Advanta Corp. and its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires.

OVERVIEW

Advanta is a nationwide provider of financial services. We offer diverse and
innovative products to consumers and small businesses. Our primary consumer
products are first and second lien non-conforming mortgage loans. Our mortgage
loans are "non-conforming" because we underwrite loans with credit
characteristics that do not meet the underwriting guidelines of federal mortgage
agencies, such as the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corporation. A loan may be considered non-conforming for a variety
of reasons, including the size of the loan in relation to the value of the
underlying property, the borrower's debt-to-income ratio and the borrower's
prior credit history. We service all of the mortgage loans that we originate. In
our contract servicing business, also known as "subservicing", we also service
the mortgage loans of third parties for a fee. The primary products we offer to
small businesses are business credit cards and equipment leases. Our basic
business card product is an unsecured MasterCard(R)* business credit card. The
majority of our equipment leases are for small-ticket items such as computers,
copiers, fax machines and other office equipment.

     We own two depository institutions, or banks, Advanta National Bank and
Advanta Bank Corp. Our banks offer a variety of deposit products, such as retail
and large denomination certificates of deposit, that are insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, also referred to as the "FDIC." We fund and
operate our mortgage, business credit card and leasing businesses primarily
through our banks.

     In addition to our lending and leasing businesses, our other businesses
include Advanta Insurance and Advanta Partners. Advanta Insurance offers a
variety of credit related insurance products. Advanta Partners is a private
equity investment firm.

     The following table highlights selected information about our lending and
leasing business units. Financial information presented in the table is for the
year ended December 31, 1999.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              ADVANTA               ADVANTA
($ IN MILLIONS)                ADVANTA MORTGAGE            BUSINESS CARDS       LEASING SERVICES
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                        <C>                          <C>                     <C>
REVENUES                   $325.7                       $120.1                  $51.7

PERCENT OF TOTAL REVENUES  57%                          21%                     9%

MANAGED RECEIVABLES        $8,384                       $1,040                  $796

TARGET MARKET              Consumer                     Small Business          Small Business

PRIMARY PRODUCTS AND       Originating and servicing    MasterCard(R)           Small ticket
  SERVICES                 non-conforming first and     Business credit card    equipment leases
                            second lien closed and
                             open end home equity
                            loans; subservicing of
                            non-conforming mortgage
                            loans for third parties
</TABLE>

In addition to the revenues from our lending and leasing businesses described in
the table above, 13% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 1999
were derived from insurance operations, investment income and venture capital
gains.

- ---------------

* MasterCard(R) is a federally registered servicemark of MasterCard
  International, Inc.

                                        1
<PAGE>   3

     Prior to February 20, 1998, we also issued consumer credit cards. Under the
terms of a contribution agreement, dated October 27, 1997 and amended on
February 20, 1998, we and Fleet Financial Group, Inc. ("Fleet") each contributed
substantially all of the assets of our respective consumer credit card
businesses, subject to liabilities, to Fleet Credit Card, LLC ("Fleet LLC"), a
newly formed Rhode Island limited liability company controlled by Fleet. We
acquired a 4.99% minority interest in Fleet LLC at the date of the closing of
the transaction. This transaction is referred to throughout this Form 10-K as
the "Consumer Credit Card Transaction."

     Advanta currently has over 2,600 employees. At December 31, 1999 we
serviced approximately $24 billion in assets, consisting of approximately $12
billion in managed assets and approximately $12 billion in assets serviced for
third parties.

     Advanta Corp. was incorporated in Delaware in 1974 as Teachers Service
Organization, Inc., the successor to a business originally founded in 1951. In
January 1988, we changed our name from TSO Financial Corp. to Advanta Corp. Our
principal executive office is located at Welsh & McKean Roads, P.O. Box 844,
Spring House, Pennsylvania 19477-0844. Our telephone number at our principal
executive office is (215) 657-4000.

STRATEGY

Advanta is a diversified nationwide financial services company that is
well-positioned in sizeable and growing markets. Our principal objectives are to
use our information based strategy to continue to grow each of our businesses
while increasing profitability and improving cash flow. The primary components
of our strategy for accomplishing these objectives are:

     Information based strategy.  Based on our experience and expertise in
analyzing consumers' credit behavior and characteristics, we have developed an
extensive database of customer information and attributes. We use this
information in conjunction with proprietary credit scoring, targeting and other
sophisticated analytical models we have developed to market our products to the
most profitable prospective customers. We measure expected profitability through
an integrated analysis of a prospect's responsiveness, creditworthiness and
sensitivity to price. We continually validate our models based on actual results
from marketing campaigns, and use this information to refine and improve our
analytical assumptions. We also leverage the information and models we have
developed to market and cross-sell our products to existing customers more
effectively.

     The information we gather and analyze allows us to market directly to
specific customer segments, target prospects effectively, anticipate customer
needs and customize our products to meet those needs. There is substantial
opportunity for us to extend our current market positions by further refining
these skills and broadening their application within each of our businesses. We
have entered into strategic alliances with third parties in which we use our
information management and direct marketing tools to market their products. We
believe we can further capitalize on these skills within our own businesses and
through other ventures and strategic alliances with third parties.

     Increase direct originations.  We are focused on maximizing profitability
by identifying the most profitable origination channels in each of our
businesses. We are able to originate our products directly from customers,
generally referred to as "direct originations," or indirectly through
intermediaries such as brokers, generally referred to as "indirect
originations." We analyze the profitability of the loans we originate, and we
are focused on increasing originations through the origination channels that
produce the most profitable loans. Loans that we originate directly from
customers typically yield higher margins, generate higher positive cash flows
and create stronger customer relationships than loans that we originate
indirectly through third parties. For the year ended December 31, 1999, 61% of
the mortgage loan receivables that we originated were direct originations, as
compared to 32% for the year ended December 31, 1998. Almost all of our business
cards are directly originated. Currently, we acquire the majority of our leases
through indirect origination channels. We plan to use our information based
strategy to change our strategic focus in our leasing business to increase
originations directly from vendors and end users of the equipment based on the
higher profitability of the leases originated through these channels.

                                        2
<PAGE>   4

     Improve and refine credit scoring and risk-based pricing models.  We use
customized credit scoring and risk-based pricing models to balance risk and
profitability. These models also enhance our ability to underwrite loans and
leases that better meet our customers' needs. Using our credit scoring and
pricing models, we are able to provide our customers with a choice among
products and pricing alternatives that are designed to satisfy both the specific
needs of the customers and our profitability goals.

     Improve operating efficiencies.  We are developing our infrastructure
around technology to make all aspects of our operations more efficient. For
example, we recently developed and are implementing the Advanta Intelligent
Mortgage System, our proprietary automated sales and underwriting system for
nonconforming mortgages. We believe that this and other technology-based
initiatives will reduce costs, increase capacity and improve customer service.
We are also focused on using the Internet as an extension of our existing
infrastructure for direct marketing, customer acquisition, application
processing and customer service. In July 1999, we became one of the first
business card issuers to offer instant credit approval on-line over the
Internet. We plan to capitalize on similar Internet opportunities to strengthen
our capabilities in our other businesses.

     Maintain multiple funding sources.  We fund our businesses through
diversified sources. We offer a range of retail and institutional FDIC-insured
deposit products through Advanta National Bank and Advanta Bank Corp., our two
FDIC-insured depository institutions. We also fund our businesses through
securitization transactions and at December 31, 1999 we had approximately $1.2
billion in warehouse lines and commercial paper conduit facilities available to
fund our lending and leasing business units. We directly offer unsecured debt of
Advanta Corp. to retail investors through the Advanta Retail Note Program. The
availability of multiple funding sources allows us to use cost-effective funding
strategies that increase both long-term earnings and economic value.

ADVANTA MORTGAGE

     OVERVIEW

Advanta Mortgage, a business unit of Advanta, offers a broad range of mortgage
products and services to consumers throughout the country. Advanta Mortgage
originates and services non-conforming credit first and second lien mortgage
loans, including home equity lines of credit. We fund and operate our mortgage
business primarily through our banks, Advanta National Bank and Advanta Bank
Corp.

     Advanta Mortgage's portfolio of managed receivables includes owned loans
and securitized loans which we service and in which we retain an interest. At
December 31, 1999, Advanta Mortgage had total owned loans receivables of $1.1
billion and total managed receivables of $8.4 billion.

     In addition to servicing and managing the loans we originate, Advanta
Mortgage services the home equity loans of unaffiliated third parties through
our subservicing business. Subserviced loans are not included in our portfolio
of managed receivables and we bear no risk of credit loss on the receivables in
our subserviced portfolio. Advanta Mortgage's portfolio of subserviced loans
totaled approximately $12 billion at December 31, 1999. Our total serviced
portfolio, including the "subserviced" portfolio, was $20.3 billion at December
31, 1999 compared to $16.6 billion at December 31, 1998.

     Approximately 87% of the managed mortgage loan portfolio is secured by
first lien position loans and the balance is secured by second lien position
loans. Home equity lines of credit represented 10% of the managed mortgage loan
portfolio at December 31, 1999. During the year ended December 31, 1999, the
United States economy experienced increases in interest rates. As a result we
experienced an increased demand for second lien mortgage loans. Second lien
mortgage loans represented 34% of the mortgage loan receivables originated by us
during the quarter ended December 31, 1999. Substantially all of the second lien
mortgage loan originations during the quarter ended December 31, 1999 consisted
of home equity lines of credit. At December 31, 1999, the combined loan-to-value
ratio for our managed mortgage loan portfolio was approximately 79%. Generally,
there is a higher risk of delinquency and/or loss associated with second lien
home equity loans that have higher loan-to-value ratios. We manage the increased
credit risk associated with these loans through our underwriting and risk-based
pricing.

                                        3
<PAGE>   5

     At December 31, 1999, approximately 62% of the managed portfolio consisted
of fixed rate loans. The remainder was comprised of adjustable rate loans and
intermediate rate loans which typically bear interest at a fixed rate for a
period of two to five years and an adjustable rate thereafter.

     The following table shows the geographic distribution by state for the top
five states of total managed Advanta Mortgage loans at December 31, 1999.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                      ($ IN MILLIONS)                           TOTAL       PERCENT OF
                                                               MORTGAGE     PORTFOLIO
                                                                LOANS        BY STATE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>
CALIFORNIA                                                    $  997,298        12%
MICHIGAN                                                         654,632         8
PENNSYLVANIA                                                     500,998         6
OHIO                                                             439,359         5
FLORIDA                                                          431,008         5
OTHER                                                          5,360,241        64
                                                              ----------       ---
          Total                                               $8,383,536       100%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     Geographic concentration carries a risk of increased delinquency and/or
loss if a specific area suffers an economic downturn. Advanta Mortgage monitors
economic conditions in those regions through market and trend analyses. Senior
management of Advanta Mortgage meets throughout the year to update lending
policies based on the results of these analyses.

     In 1999, approximately 57% of Advanta's total revenues were derived from
Advanta Mortgage.

     ORIGINATION CHANNELS

Currently, Advanta Mortgage generates most of its loans through direct
originations and through our network of more than 600 brokers. Our direct
origination channels consist of our national call center and our 60 loan
production offices located throughout the country. We directly originate
mortgage loans from consumers using targeted direct mail and direct response
television and radio advertising. Using our information based strategy we
identify and market to prospective customers who are most likely to respond and
result in a profitable relationship for Advanta.

     In the past, we also relied on indirect originations through our conduit
and corporate finance divisions within Advanta Mortgage to acquire mortgage
loans through correspondent relationships and purchases from other financial
institutions. We curtailed these indirect origination activities during 1999 to
the extent we determined that they were no longer consistent with our strategy
and did not meet our profitability and return goals. For similar reasons, during
the first quarter of 1999, we exited our auto finance business through which we
formerly engaged in the financing of automobile purchases by consumers with
non-conforming credit characteristics.

     Because directly originated loans are more profitable and generally perform
better with respect to delinquencies, prepayments and charge-offs than loans we
originate through indirect channels, we are focused on increasing direct
originations as a percentage of our mortgage loan portfolio. Our portfolio of
directly originated mortgage loans increased by 37.1% for the year ended
December 31, 1999 as compared to the year ended December 31, 1998, and
represented 42.4% of the managed loan portfolio at December 31, 1999 as compared
to 31.8% at December 31, 1998. Our broker portfolio increased by 21.2% for the
year ended December 31, 1999 as compared to the year ended December 31, 1998,
and represented 15.2% of the managed mortgage loan portfolio at December 31,
1999 as compared to 12.9% at December 31, 1998.

                                        4
<PAGE>   6

     The following table sets forth the volume of originations, broken out by
origination channel, for the years ended December 31, 1999 and December 31,
1998.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
($ IN THOUSANDS)                               ----------------------------------------------------
                                                         1999                        1998
                                               ------------------------    ------------------------
                                                  LOAN        NUMBER OF       LOAN        NUMBER OF
            ORIGINATION CHANNELS               RECEIVABLES      LOANS      RECEIVABLES      LOANS
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                            <C>            <C>          <C>            <C>
DIRECT                                         $1,621,037      35,515      $1,655,399      29,846
BROKER                                            542,115       6,200         475,427       5,856
CONDUIT                                           449,848       5,843       1,752,968      22,656
CORP. FINANCE                                      37,939         528       1,325,447      17,430
AUTO                                                5,103         375         104,350       8,531
                                               ----------      ------      ----------      ------
TOTAL ADVANTA MORTGAGE LOANS                   $2,656,042      48,461      $5,313,591      84,319
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     UNDERWRITING

We have been lending to non-conforming borrowers since 1986. We believe that our
knowledge of the non-conforming mortgage industry, together with our expertise
in analyzing and predicting consumer behavior, affords us an advantage in our
ability to manage risk through the underwriting process.

     We have an experienced staff of underwriters within Advanta Mortgage. The
underwriting guidelines used in our mortgage business are designed to consider
the value and adequacy of the mortgaged property as collateral for the proposed
mortgage loan as well as the borrower's credit standing and repayment ability.
We further tailor these underwriting guidelines to the type of product, for
example whether the loan is a first or second lien, or whether it is a
closed-end mortgage or a revolving home equity line of credit. There are three
major steps in the underwriting process: (1) identify the eligibility and
appropriate credit grade of the mortgagor; (2) evaluate the eligibility and
lendable equity of the mortgaged property; and (3) ensure the loan terms are
acceptable for that credit grade. We have developed standardized underwriting
guidelines for our national call center and our network of 60 loan production
offices.

     We have also originated mortgage loans through indirect channels by
purchasing mortgage loans or pools of mortgage loans, in whole or in part, from
correspondents and other unaffiliated third party originators. The underwriting
guidelines used by unaffiliated originators may deviate from our own
underwriting guidelines. In these circumstances, we will reunderwrite a
representative sample of the mortgage loans.

     We are implementing the Advanta Intelligent Mortgage System, or AIMS, which
is our proprietary automated sales and underwriting system that is designed to
enable loan officers to structure multiple loan options for customers quickly.
AIMS is designed to rapidly analyze customer-specific information against a set
of criteria, including our underwriting guidelines, and generate a number of
alternative products and pricing structures that will meet our customers' stated
needs, consistent with our profitability objectives. AIMS will automate the
underwriting and pricing functions in our mortgage business. We expect this to
increase our efficiency by reducing the time it takes to structure a product
that is tailored to the needs of a particular customer. We expect AIMS to be
fully operational in our national call center by March 31, 2000 and believe that
it will further increase our effectiveness in direct originations. We intend to
introduce AIMS within our other mortgage origination channels by the end of
2000. Once AIMS has been fully implemented, we expect it will provide us with a
single platform for mortgage loan originations across all channels and create
operating and system efficiencies in our mortgage business.

     RISK-BASED PRICING

In conjunction with the underwriting process, we manage risk in our mortgage
business through risk-based pricing. Using our customized models, we analyze
customer-specific data that is housed in our database, including both
credit-related and non-credit customer attributes. Based on the results of this
analysis, we are able to price the mortgage loans that we offer to a potential
borrower to account for that borrower's risk profile.

                                        5
<PAGE>   7

This risk-based approach to pricing allows us to offer a variety of products and
pricing structures that meet the customer's needs, consistent with our
profitability goals.

     Under applicable federal law, Advanta National Bank and Advanta Bank Corp.,
our bank subsidiaries, may charge interest and assess prepayment penalties at
the levels permitted by the laws of the state where the bank is located and may
"apply" those rates and fees related to those rates on loans to borrowers in
other states. We believe we have a competitive advantage in pricing our mortgage
loan products because we are able to export interest rates and prepayment
penalties on any of the loans that we originate through our bank subsidiaries.
This provides us with greater flexibility in pricing and structuring mortgage
loans. For the year ended December 31, 1999, 82% of our mortgage loan
originations were originated and funded through Advanta National Bank and
Advanta Bank Corp.

     SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS

Advanta Mortgage performs the servicing for its mortgage loans.

     Our servicing activities consist principally of:

     - collecting and posting all payments;

     - responding to inquiries of customers or federal, state or local
       government authorities;

     - investigating delinquencies;

     - initiating contact with borrowers who are delinquent in payment of a loan
       installment;

     - supervising foreclosures and property dispositions in the event of
       unremedied defaults;

     - reporting tax information to mortgagors;

     - accounting for collections;

     - furnishing monthly and annual statements to the trustee for our
       securitization trusts; and

     - with respect to securitization transactions, making payment advances when
       required.

     In addition, Advanta Mortgage services the home equity loans of
unaffiliated third parties for a fee through its subservicing business. Advanta
Mortgage's subservicing portfolio totaled approximately $11.9 billion at
December 31, 1999, as compared to $8.3 billion at December 31, 1998. We bear no
risk of credit loss on the receivables in this portfolio of subserviced loans,
and these loans are not included in our portfolio of managed assets.

ADVANTA BUSINESS CARDS

     OVERVIEW

Advanta Business Cards, a business unit of Advanta, is one of the nation's
leading providers of business credit cards to small businesses. Advanta Business
Cards offers MasterCard(R) business credit cards to small businesses using
targeted direct mail and the Internet. The "Advanta Business Card" is issued and
funded by Advanta Bank Corp. MasterCard licenses banks and other financial
institutions, such as Advanta Bank Corp., to issue business credit cards using
its trademark and to use its interchange network. Advanta Bank Corp. receives an
interchange fee as compensation for the funding and credit and fraud risk it
assumes when its cardholders use the Advanta Business Card. MasterCard sets the
interchange fee as a percentage of each credit card transaction (currently
averaging approximately 2.17%).

     Our standard product is a MasterCard business credit card that provides our
customers with access, through merchants, banks and ATMs, to an instant
unsecured revolving business credit line. Under the terms

                                        6
<PAGE>   8

of our cardholder agreements, our business cards may be used for business
purposes only. We offer a number of benefits that we believe are important to
small business owners including:

     - personalized company checks, which can be used at the same interest rate
       as credit card purchases;

     - additional cards for employees at no fee with the ability to set
       individual spending limits;

     - detailed quarterly and annual expense management reports that categorize
       purchases and itemize charges for record keeping and tax purposes; and

     - access to cash advances up to the full credit line at the same interest
       rate as credit card purchases.

Our business credit card also offers free auto rental insurance, free purchase
protection service for a specified time period and several free emergency
assistance and referral services.

     On a limited basis, we also offer a bonus miles program for an annual fee.
Under this program, the cardholder receives credit toward the purchase of
airline tickets with each card purchase. Additionally, we offer a travel card.
Use of the travel card entitles the cardholder to discounts at various hotels
and restaurants along with all of the benefits described above. We expect to
continue to expand our business credit card product offerings and look for
innovative ways to tailor products to the unique needs of small businesses.

     The interest rate and credit line size we offer vary, and are ultimately
determined based upon the credit history and creditworthiness of the borrower.
At December 31, 1999, the average credit line was approximately $10,000. The
interest rate, which is based on a LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate) index,
will typically range from approximately 12% to 20%. In most cases, the rate will
change with changes in LIBOR and is subject to a minimum below which the rate
cannot fall.

     Advanta Business Cards generates interest and other income through finance
charges assessed on outstanding loans, interchange income, and cash advance and
other credit card fees.

     The managed portfolio of Advanta Business Cards grew from $815 million at
December 31, 1998 to $1.04 billion at December 31, 1999. In 1999, approximately
21% of Advanta's total revenues were derived from Advanta Business Cards.

     ORIGINATIONS

Advanta Business Cards originates substantially all of its accounts using direct
marketing techniques. The primary sources of new accounts are direct mail
advertising to prospective customers and the Internet. The Advanta Business
Cards marketing program is the result of extensive ongoing testing of various
marketing campaigns that target different segments of the small business market.
The success of each campaign is measured by both the cost of acquisition of new
business and the credit performance of the resulting business. Advanta Business
Cards originated over 140,000 new accounts during the year ended December 31,
1999.

     During 1999, we successfully applied our information based strategy in this
business to expand the universe of potential business card customers.
Additionally, in July 1999 Advanta Business Cards became one of the first
business card issuers to offer instant credit decisions over the Internet. We
believe that many of our business card customers will prefer to receive their
statements and other customer service activities over the Internet. Therefore,
we plan to strengthen our Internet capabilities in this business during 2000. We
believe that developing our Internet capabilities can decrease both the account
acquisition and servicing costs for this business.

     UNDERWRITING AND RISK-BASED PRICING

Advanta Business Cards has developed sophisticated modeling techniques for
assessing the creditworthiness of potential cardholders. Because the owner or
other authorized officer of our small business customer is a co-obligor on our
business credit card account, we consider credit-related and other relevant data
about both the business and the individual in our assessment of the
creditworthiness of potential cardholders. Through the application process, we
verify the applicant's demographic information and collect current sales and
income statistics. This information, coupled with credit reports received from
external credit reporting agencies, forms
                                        7
<PAGE>   9

the basis for our decision to extend credit. Using a proprietary scoring system,
we rank our prospective cardholders based upon their expected creditworthiness
and profitability potential.

     Upon the completion of credit assessment and identification of potential
cardholders that meet our criteria via the initial screening process, we offer a
range of potential interest rates for which the cardholder may be eligible.
These offers are subject to verification of information provided by the
potential cardholder through the application process. If the applicant is
approved, the actual interest rate and credit line size assigned reflects the
level of risk in the cardholder's creditworthiness.

     When a cardholder is first approved, our profile of that cardholder is
limited and based solely on historical information. As we compile information
regarding each cardholder's behavior over time, we maintain and continually
update our performance database. We believe that the information we gather over
time regarding actual account performance and cardholder behavior becomes a
better indicator of future performance than the criteria initially used to score
the cardholder. Therefore, we periodically re-score the cardholder based on all
of the information we accumulate, and use this information to evaluate and
potentially adjust the interest rate and the credit line size that we make
available to the cardholder.

     With 30 days notice, we may reprice any account at our discretion,
typically based upon changes in a cardholder's credit standing. The credit line
size may also be adjusted up or down based on our continual credit monitoring.
To discourage delinquent payments, we use "penalty pricing" and automatically
apply a 3% increase to the interest rate on any account that is two payment
cycles delinquent.

     SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS

Advanta Business Cards performs most of the servicing for our business credit
card accounts. Other data processing and administrative functions associated
with the servicing of our business credit card portfolio are outsourced to First
Data Resources, Inc., including: authorizing transactions through the MasterCard
system; performing billing and settlement processes; generating and monitoring
monthly billing statements; and issuing credit card plastics and new account
agreements.

     Advanta Business Cards has a collections staff that performs the collection
activities for our business credit cards. Accounts are recognized as delinquent
one day after a monthly cycle in which no payment is received for an account
that had a balance in the prior billing cycle. Collection activity involves
contacting the cardholder and taking other appropriate actions. We continually
monitor the effectiveness of our collection efforts and make process
improvements as we deem necessary.

     Advanta Business Cards discourages delinquent payments by assessing a late
fee. In addition, the collections staff aggressively pursues late payments. In
cases where our collection efforts are unsuccessful, the account balance is
"charged-off" 180 days after the payment due date. However, we continue to
pursue recovery over a longer time period in cases where we believe full or
partial payment is probable. For accounts for which we have received a notice of
a bankruptcy of the business, we use a 90-day investigation period to determine
whether we should challenge the bankruptcy petition or the discharge of amounts
owed to us. Following that 90-day period, we charge off the outstanding balance.

ADVANTA LEASING SERVICES

     OVERVIEW

Advanta Leasing Services, a business unit of Advanta, offers flexible lease
financing programs to small businesses. The primary products that we offer
through our leasing business consist of leases for small-ticket items such as
computers, copiers, fax machines and other office equipment. Advanta Leasing
Services originates and funds its leases and other equipment financing
arrangements through Advanta Bank Corp. Advanta Leasing Services uses direct
mail and telemarketing to market its products. Repeat business from existing
customers generates additional business.

                                        8
<PAGE>   10

     Our leases are generally priced on a fixed rate basis. The average lease
size is approximately $13,400 and the average lease term is 47 months.

     Managed lease receivables at December 31, 1999 totaled approximately $796
million, compared to approximately $670 million at December 31, 1998. Advanta
Leasing Services originated leases in the amount of approximately $454 million
for the year ended December 31, 1999 and approximately $328 million for the year
ended December 31, 1998. In 1999, approximately 9% of Advanta's total revenues
were derived from Advanta Leasing Services.

     ORIGINATIONS

Advanta Leasing Services originates leases through marketing programs, vendors,
brokers and bulk or portfolio purchases. Advanta Leasing Services establishes
both formal and informal relationships with equipment vendors. As a result of
previous transactions with Advanta Leasing Services, vendors may recommend that
prospective customers make a credit application to Advanta Leasing Services for
financing. A more formal program between Advanta Leasing Services and a vendor
may offer prospective customers financing at pre-arranged rates, based upon the
vendor's equipment, and terms and conditions approved by Advanta Leasing
Services. Advanta Leasing Services also originates contracts through the use of
brokers. In a typical broker transaction, the broker refers potential customers
to Advanta Leasing Services and the broker is paid a referral fee. In order to
maximize the profitability of our leasing business, we are leveraging our
information based strategy to change the strategic focus. We are planning to
shift the focus away from those broker sources that do not meet our
profitability objectives to more profitable vendor and direct origination
channels.

     UNDERWRITING

In connection with the origination or acquisition of leases, Advanta Leasing
Services performs a thorough credit review of all prospective customers. The
credit review process typically begins when the prospective customer completes a
credit application. We enter the completed credit application into our
computerized application processing system called the Advanced Credit Entry
System, or ACE. We can enter applications into ACE internally, or applications
can be entered externally by third parties, such as brokers or vendors. Our
credit decision is based on several credit-related attributes using our
customized credit scoring model.

     Credit applications can be automatically approved or rejected based on the
dollar amount of the application and a credit score falling within a range in
the model. For those credit applications not falling within a specified dollar
amount and/or credit score, we base our credit decision on an analysis by our
credit staff utilizing underwriting criteria developed by Advanta Leasing
Services.

     In addition, we have personnel in our credit department who are dedicated
to performing reviews of potential new vendors and brokers to ensure compliance
with our overall credit policies and procedures. In reviewing new relationships
with vendors and brokers, Advanta Leasing Services considers, among other
things, length of time in business, bank, credit and trade references, Dunn &
Bradstreet reports, and credit bureau reports on all of the officers of the
vendor being reviewed.

     SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS

Advanta Leasing Services performs collection activities with respect to
delinquent contracts. Each lease contract has a provision for assessing late
charges in the event that a customer fails to make a payment on the contract on
the related due date. We typically initiate telephone contact when an account is
between one and 16 days past due, depending on certain established criteria.
Telephone contact is continued throughout the delinquency period. If the account
continues to be delinquent, Advanta Leasing Services may exercise any remedies
available to it under the terms of the contract, including termination and
acceleration of the lease contract. We evaluate each contract on the merits of
the individual situation taking into consideration the equipment value and the
current financial strength of the customer.

                                        9
<PAGE>   11

     If collection activities are unsuccessful, we typically charge off the
account at 121 days past due. An account may be charged off prior to 121 days if
we determine that there will be no further payments made.

     At the time an account is charged-off, the account is referred to Advanta
Leasing Services' in-house litigation department to determine whether to pursue
the customer or any personal guarantor on the contract through litigation. If we
determine not to pursue an account through litigation it may be referred to a
third party collection agency to enforce the original terms of the contract. In
cases where the customer files for bankruptcy, the Advanta Leasing Services'
legal recovery department follows up with the debtor to determine whether the
debtor intends to assume or reject the contract. In many cases, although the
customer has filed for bankruptcy protection from its creditors, it continues to
make regular payments on its contract.

OTHER BUSINESSES

     ADVANTA INSURANCE COMPANIES

Our life/health and property/casualty insurance subsidiaries, Advanta Life
Insurance Company and Advanta Insurance Company, respectively, provide insurance
and related products to two distinct markets, existing Advanta customers and the
public at large.

     Together with unaffiliated insurance carriers, we offer specialty
credit-related insurance products and services to our existing mortgage,
business credit card and leasing customers. Advanta Insurance uses direct mail
marketing and telemarketing to enroll customers in these programs. The focus of
these products is on the customers' ability to repay their debt. These products
include coverage for loss of life, disability, involuntary unemployment,
accidental death, and lost or damaged equipment. Our insurance subsidiaries
generally reinsure all or a portion of the risks associated with these products
or services. Under reinsurance agreements our insurance subsidiaries assume a
proportional quota share of the risk from the unaffiliated insurance carriers.
In consideration for assuming these risks, our insurance subsidiaries receive
reinsurance premiums equal to the proportional percentage of the net premiums
collected by the insurance carriers, less a ceding fee as defined by the
reinsurance treaties, and proportional acquisition expenses, premium taxes and
loss payments made by the carriers on these risks.

     Advanta Insurance also markets insurance and related products and services
of third parties to the public at large. During 1999 we increased our focus on
this market. Through a strategic alliance with Progressive Casualty Insurance
Company formed in 1996 for an initial term of 5 years, Advanta Insurance
provides its direct marketing expertise to market Progressive's automobile
insurance policies nationwide. Generally, Progressive's automobile policies
provide for automobile liability protection up to $500,000 and automobile
physical damage protection up to $100,000, as defined under specific policy and
customer requirements. As part of the alliance, Advanta Insurance Company and
Progressive have also entered into a quota share reinsurance agreement that
provides that Advanta Insurance Company assumes 50% of all risks and expenses on
automobile policies written by Progressive under the insurance programs being
marketed.

     Through other strategic alliances or partnership arrangements, we are
developing and testing the market for a number of new products including
critical illness, term life with no medical exam, and disability insurance. We
are currently testing a product that permits customers to receive discounts on
prescriptions, dental services and certain other health related goods and
services at the point of sale. Each of these efforts is designed to take
advantage of our unique skills in database and information management, analysis
and targeted direct marketing.

     In addition, prior to the closing of the Consumer Credit Card Transaction,
we offered credit-related insurance products to our consumer credit card
customers. Our insurance subsidiaries no longer reinsure these insurance risks.
Our insurance subsidiaries are, however, obligated to reimburse the unaffiliated
insurance carriers for losses and loss adjustment expenses paid on losses
incurred on risks assumed on or before February 20, 1998; and our insurance
subsidiaries maintain loss and loss expense reserves for these losses and
expenses.

                                       10
<PAGE>   12

     ADVANTA PARTNERS

Advanta Partners LP, formed in 1994, is our private equity investment affiliate.
This entity focuses primarily on growth capital financings, restructurings and
management buyouts in the financial services, electronic commerce customer
service, and other consumer and data information management services industries.
The investment objective of Advanta Partners LP is to earn attractive returns by
building the long-term values of the businesses in which it invests. Advanta
Partners LP combines transaction expertise, management skills and a broad
contact base with strong industry-specific knowledge.

DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS

We own two depository institutions, Advanta National Bank and Advanta Bank Corp.
Advanta National Bank is a national banking association organized under the laws
of the United States of America with its headquarters and sole branch currently
located in Wilmington, Delaware. Advanta currently conducts a large portion of
Advanta Mortgage's business and, before to February 20, 1998, conducted a large
portion of its consumer credit card business through Advanta National Bank.

     Advanta Bank Corp. is an industrial loan corporation organized under the
laws of the State of Utah with its principal executive offices located in Salt
Lake City, Utah. Currently, Advanta Bank Corp.'s principal activities consist of
the issuance of the "Advanta Business Card" credit card, small ticket equipment
lease financing and originating and servicing a portion of Advanta Mortgage's
mortgage loans.

DEPOSIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PRODUCTS

Deposits with each of our bank subsidiaries are insured by the FDIC. Our banks
offer a range of insured deposit products that are used to fund loan and lease
originations at the banks. Advanta National Bank's deposit products include
money market savings accounts, retail certificates of deposit and large
denomination certificates of deposit of $99,000 or more. Advanta Bank Corp.'s
deposit products include retail certificates of deposit and large denomination
certificates of deposit of $99,000 or more. At December 31, 1999, we had total
deposits of $1.5 billion at our banks, compared to $1.8 billion as of December
31, 1998. The banks generate retail deposits from repeat deposits from existing
customers and from new depositors attracted by direct mail solicitations,
newspaper and other media advertising and over the Internet.

     Since 1951, Advanta Corp. and its predecessor Teachers Service
Organization, Inc. have offered unsecured debt securities of Advanta Corp., in
the form of RediReserve Certificates and Investment Notes to retail investors
through Advanta's retail note programs. These debt securities are a secondary
funding source for Advanta Corp. and provide funding diversity. These debt
securities have been sold predominantly on a direct basis by Advanta Corp. in
select states. The RediReserve Variable Rate Certificates are payable on demand
and the maturities on the Investment Notes range from 91 days to ten years. The
RediReserve Certificates and Investment Notes generally require an initial
minimum investment of $5,000 and are obligations of Advanta Corp. that are not
insured or guaranteed by any public or private entity. We change the interest
rates that we offer frequently, depending on market conditions and our funding
needs. The rates also vary depending on the size of each investment. As of
December 31, 1999, $235.3 million of RediReserve Certificates and Investment
Notes were outstanding with interest rates ranging from 6.02% to 11.34%.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

     ADVANTA CORP.

Advanta Corp. is not required to register as a bank holding company under the
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHCA"). We own Advanta
National Bank, which is a "bank" as defined under the BHCA as amended by the
Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 ("CEBA"). However, under grandfathering
provisions of CEBA, we are not required to register as a bank holding company
because Advanta National Bank, which takes demand deposits but does not make
commercial loans, did not come within the BHCA definition of the term "bank"
prior to the enactment of CEBA. Under CEBA, our other

                                       11
<PAGE>   13

banking subsidiary, Advanta Bank Corp., is not considered a "bank" for purposes
of the BHCA. Accordingly, our ownership of it does not impact our exempt status
under the BHCA.

     Under CEBA, Advanta National Bank is subject to certain restrictions, such
as limiting its activities to those in which it was engaged prior to March 5,
1987 and not acquiring control of more than 5% of the stock or assets of an
additional "bank" or "savings association," as these terms are defined in the
BHCA. Before September 30, 1996, CEBA also contained restrictions that limited
Advanta National Bank's growth rate to not more than 7% per year. This growth
cap of 7% was eliminated in September 1996 by an amendment to the BHCA, creating
substantial new flexibility for asset liability management at Advanta National
Bank. On November 12, 1999, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act
of 1999 (the "Financial Modernization Act") was adopted and it will become
effective on May 12, 2000. The Financial Modernization Act will further ease
some of the limitations on Advanta National Bank that are imposed by CEBA,
including restrictions that prohibit Advanta National Bank from cross-marketing
products or services of an affiliate that are not permissible products or
services for bank holding companies under the BHCA. The elimination of this
restriction will create additional flexibility for us in the marketing of our
financial services products.

     Because we are not a bank holding company, we are not subject to
examination by the Federal Reserve Board, other than for purposes of assuring
continued compliance with CEBA restrictions, as discussed above. Prior to the
enactment of the Financial Modernization Act, if Advanta Corp. or Advanta
National Bank had ceased complying with the restrictions set forth in CEBA,
registration as a bank holding company under the BHCA would be required.
Registration as a bank holding company is not automatic and would subject us and
our subsidiaries to inspection and regulation by the Federal Reserve Board.
Under the Financial Modernization Act, should Advanta Corp. or Advanta National
Bank fail to comply with any of the restrictions applicable to them under CEBA,
there will be a 180-day right to cure period following receipt of a notice from
the Federal Reserve Board. During the cure period we will be required to either
cease or correct the activity that is not in compliance, or submit to the
Federal Reserve Board a plan to cease the activity within a timely manner that
is not in excess of one year and implement procedures that will avoid a
reoccurrence of the activity. The opportunity to cure or remediate an activity
that is out of compliance significantly reduces the risk that Advanta Corp. will
be required to register as a bank holding company under the BHCA.

     ADVANTA NATIONAL BANK

Advanta National Bank is subject to regulation and periodic examination,
primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC"). The
OCC's regulations relate to the maintenance of reserves for certain types of
deposits and other products offered by a bank, the maintenance of certain
financial ratios, the terms on which a bank may engage in transactions with its
affiliates and a broad range of other banking practices. As a national bank,
Advanta National Bank is also subject to provisions of federal law which
restrict its ability to extend credit to its affiliates or pay dividends to
Advanta Corp.

     Advanta National Bank is subject to capital adequacy guidelines issued by
the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (the "FFIEC"). These
guidelines make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in
risk profiles among banking organizations and consider off-balance sheet
exposures in determining capital adequacy. Under the rules and regulations of
the FFIEC, at least half of a bank's total capital is required to be "tier I
capital," comprised of common equity, retained earnings and a limited amount of
non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. The remaining capital, "tier II
capital," may consist of other preferred stock, certain hybrid debt/equity
instruments, a limited amount of term subordinated debt or a limited amount of
the reserve for possible credit losses. The FFIEC has also adopted minimum
leverage ratios for national banks, which are calculated by dividing tier I
capital by total average assets. Recognizing that the risk-based capital
standards address only credit risk, and not interest rate, liquidity,
operational or other risks, many national banks are expected to maintain capital
in excess of the minimum standards.

     In addition, pursuant to provisions of the FDIC Improvement Act of 1991
(the "FDICIA") and related regulations with respect to prompt corrective action,
FDIC-insured institutions such as Advanta National

                                       12
<PAGE>   14

Bank may only accept brokered deposits without FDIC permission if they meet
specified capital standards, and are subject to restrictions with respect to the
interest they may pay on deposits unless they are "well-capitalized." To be
"well-capitalized," a bank must have a ratio of combined tier I and tier II
capital to risk-weighted assets of not less than 10%, tier I capital to
risk-weighted assets of not less than 6%, and a tier I leverage ratio of not
less than 5%.

     Advanta National Bank's ratio of combined tier I and tier II capital to
risk-weighted assets was 14.86% as of December 31, 1999, and 12.12% as of
December 31, 1998. In each case, Advanta National Bank had capital levels that
met the definition of "well-capitalized" under the regulatory framework for
prompt corrective action.

     ADVANTA BANK CORP.

Advanta Bank Corp., a Utah-chartered industrial loan corporation, is a
depository institution subject to regulatory oversight and examination by both
the FDIC and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions. Under its banking
charter, Advanta Bank Corp. may make consumer and commercial loans and may
accept all FDIC-insured deposits other than demand deposits such as checking
accounts. Advanta Bank Corp. is subject to the same regulatory and supervisory
processes as commercial banks.

     Advanta Bank Corp. is subject to provisions of federal law which restrict
and control its ability to extend credit and provide or receive services between
affiliates. Advanta Bank Corp. is subject to the same FFIEC capital adequacy
guidelines as Advanta National Bank. See "Business -- Government
Regulation -- Advanta National Bank." In addition, the FDIC has regulatory
authority to prohibit Advanta Bank Corp. from engaging in any unsafe or unsound
practice in conducting its business.

     Advanta Bank Corp.'s combined total capital ratio of tier I and tier II
capital to risk-weighted assets was 13.28% as of December 31, 1999 and 14.13% as
of December 31, 1998. In each case, Advanta Bank Corp. had capital levels that
met the definition of "well-capitalized" under the regulatory framework for
prompt corrective action.

     LENDING AND LEASING ACTIVITIES

Our lending activities are also subject to regulation under various federal and
state laws including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Home Ownership and Equity
Protection Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure
Act, the Community Reinvestment Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Real
Estate Settlement Procedures Act and the Fair Credit Reporting Act. Provisions
of these statutes and related regulations require disclosure to borrowers of
finance charges in terms of an annual percentage rate, prohibit discriminatory
practices in extending credit, require our FDIC-insured banking institutions to
serve the banking needs of their local communities and regulate the
dissemination and use of information relating to a borrower's creditworthiness.
Certain of these statutes and regulations also apply to our leasing activities.
In addition, some of our direct and indirect subsidiaries that are engaged in
our mortgage business are subject to licensure and regulation in various states
as mortgage bankers, mortgage brokers, and originators, sellers and servicers of
mortgage loans.

     DIVIDENDS

There are various legal limitations on the extent to which Advanta National Bank
can supply funds through dividends to Advanta Corp. The prior approval of the
OCC is required if the total of all dividends declared by Advanta National Bank
in any calendar year exceeds its net profits for that year combined with its
retained net profits for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to
surplus accounts. In addition, Advanta National Bank may not pay a dividend in
an amount greater than its undivided profits then on hand after deducting its
losses and bad debts. The OCC also has authority under the Financial
Institutions Supervisory Act to prohibit a national bank from engaging in any
unsafe or unsound practice in conducting its business. It is possible, depending
upon the financial condition of the bank in question and other factors, that the
OCC could claim that a dividend payment might be an unsafe or unsound practice.

                                       13
<PAGE>   15

     During 1998, in connection with the Consumer Credit Card Transaction, the
OCC approved the payment of a special dividend/return of capital of $1.3 billion
from Advanta National Bank to Advanta Corp. As a result of this extraordinary
dividend and the dividend restrictions described above, Advanta National Bank
will not be eligible to declare any dividends to Advanta Corp. without the OCC's
prior approval until at least the first quarter of 2001.

     Although Advanta Bank Corp. is not subject to specific limitations on its
ability to pay dividends, it is possible, depending upon the financial condition
of Advanta Bank Corp. and other factors, that the FDIC could claim that a
dividend payment might be an unsafe or unsound practice. In this event, Advanta
Bank Corp. would be limited in its ability to pay dividends to Advanta Corp.

     TRANSFERS OF FUNDS

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act also impose restrictions on
Advanta National Bank and Advanta Bank Corp. These restrictions limit the
transfer of funds by the depository institution to certain of its affiliates,
including Advanta Corp., in the form of loans, extensions of credit, investments
or purchases of assets. These transfers by any one depository institution to us
or any other single affiliate are limited in amount to 10% of the depository
institution's capital and surplus, and transfers to all affiliates are limited
in the aggregate to 20% of the depository institution's capital and surplus.
These loans and extensions of credit are also subject to various collateral
requirements. Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act also require
generally that the depository institution's transactions with its affiliates be
on terms no less favorable to the bank than comparable transactions with
unrelated third parties. In addition, in order for us to maintain our
grandfathered exemption under CEBA, Advanta National Bank is not permitted to
make any loans to us or any of our subsidiaries.

     REGULATION OF INSURANCE

Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to the laws and regulations of, and
supervision by, the states in which they are domiciled or have obtained
authority to transact insurance business. These states have adopted laws and
regulations which govern all insurance policy underwriting, rating, licensing,
marketing, administration and financial operations of an insurance company,
including dividend payments and financial solvency. In addition, our insurance
subsidiaries have registered as an Arizona Holding Company which requires an
annual registration and the approval of certain transactions between all
affiliated entities.

     The maximum dividend that any of our insurance subsidiaries can distribute
to Advanta Corp., in any twelve month period without prior approval of the State
of Arizona Department of Insurance is the lesser of:

     - 10% of the subsidiary's statutory surplus; or

     - for any given twelve-month period, its net income, if it is a life
       insurance company; or

     - for any given twelve-month period, its net investment income, if it is a
       property and casualty insurance company.

     In 1999, Advanta Life Insurance Company declared and paid dividends to
Advanta Corp. in the amount of $1.2 million. In 1998, Advanta Insurance Company
declared and paid dividends in the amount of $37.5 million to Advanta Corp., of
which $35.0 million was classified as an extraordinary dividend. Advanta
Insurance Company applied for and received approval from The Arizona Department
of Insurance to pay this extraordinary dividend. Also in 1998, Advanta Life
Insurance Company declared and paid dividends in the amount of $1.2 million to
Advanta Corp.

     The State of Arizona has adopted minimum risk-based capital standards as
developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Risk-based
capital is the quantification of an insurer's investment, underwriting, reserve
and business risks in relation to its total adjusted capital and surplus. The
ratio of an insurer's total adjusted capital and surplus is compared to various
levels of risk-based capital to determine what intervention, if any, is required
by either the insurance company or an insurance department. As of

                                       14
<PAGE>   16

December 31, 1999, our insurance subsidiaries met all risk-based capital
standards and required no intervention by any party.

     Our insurance subsidiaries reinsure risks using underwriting insurance
practices and rates which are regulated in part or fully by state insurance
departments. State insurance departments continually review and modify these
rates based on prior historical experience. Any modifications may impact the
future profitability of our insurance subsidiaries.

LEGAL DEVELOPMENTS

Because the banking and finance businesses in general are the subject of the
extensive regulation described above at both the state and federal levels, and
because numerous legislative and regulatory proposals are advanced each year
which, if adopted, could affect our profitability or the manner in which we
conduct our activities, we cannot predict the extent of the impact of any new
laws or regulations.

     Various legislative proposals and initiatives relating to the banking and
finance businesses have been or will be introduced in Congress. Recently, an
FDIC discussion draft proposal has been made public relating to capital
requirements of subprime lenders. Under the proposal, regulatory capital
required to be held for certain mortgage or other loans that are considered
subprime would be increased. We are primarily in the lending and leasing
businesses. At this time we have not yet quantified the amount of our mortgage,
business credit card and lease receivables that could be categorized as
"subprime" under the FDIC's proposal. If a substantial portion of our loan and
lease receivables were to meet the FDIC's proposed definition of "subprime" and
the draft proposal were to be adopted, the increased regulatory capital
requirements could have a negative impact on our financial results. This is one
of several regulatory and legislative initiatives focused on the subprime
mortgage business that potentially could impact the manner in which we conduct
our business and our financial results. Other federal legislative proposals and
initiatives that could impact our businesses include financial privacy
initiatives that would restrict the permissible use of customer-specific
financial and other credit information, and statutory changes to the Real Estate
Settlement Procedures Act, the Truth in Lending Act and the Home Ownership
Equity Protection Act. Additionally, a number of states are considering, and
others likely will consider, legislative and regulatory initiatives related to
subprime mortgage lending and financial privacy. It is impossible to determine
whether any of these proposals or initiatives will be adopted or occur and, if
so, the magnitude of any impact they will have on the manner in which we conduct
our business and our financial results.

COMPETITION

As a marketer of financial services and credit products, we face intense
competition from numerous financial services providers. Many of these companies
are substantially larger and have more capital and other resources than we do.
Competition among lenders can take many forms, including convenience in
obtaining a loan, customer service, size of loans, interest rates, prepayment
penalties and other types of finance or service charges, duration of loans, the
nature of the risk the lender is willing to assume and the type of security, if
any, required by the lender. Although we believe we are generally competitive in
most of the geographic areas in which we offer our services, there can be no
assurance that our ability to market our services successfully or to obtain an
adequate yield on our loans will not be impacted by the nature of the
competition that now exists or may develop.

     In seeking investment funds from the public, we face competition from
banks, savings institutions, money market funds, mutual funds, credit unions and
a wide variety of private and public entities that sell debt securities, some of
which are publicly traded. Many of our competitors are larger and have more
capital and other resources than we have. Competition relates to matters such
as: rate of return, collateral, insurance or guarantees applicable to the
investment, if any; the amount required to be invested; convenience and the cost
to and conditions imposed upon the investor in investing and liquidating the
investment, including any commissions which must be paid or interest forfeited
on funds withdrawn; customer service; service charges, if any; and the
taxability of interest.

                                       15
<PAGE>   17

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 1999, we had 2,643 employees. We believe that we have good
relationships with our employees. None of our employees are represented by a
collective bargaining unit.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS

Information or statements provided by the Company from time to time may contain
certain "forward-looking information" including information relating to
anticipated earnings per share, anticipated returns on equity, anticipated
growth in loans outstanding and credit card accounts, anticipated net interest
margins, anticipated operations costs and employment growth, anticipated
prepayment rates of outstanding loans, anticipated marketing expense or
anticipated delinquencies and charge-offs. The cautionary statements provided
below are being made pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act") and with the intention of obtaining
the benefits of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Act for any such
forward-looking information.

     We caution readers that any forward-looking information provided by us is
not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results may differ
materially from those in the forward-looking information as a result of various
factors, including but not limited to:

     - Increased credit losses and collection costs associated with a worsening
       of general economic conditions, rising interest rates, declining real
       estate values, shifts in product mix within our portfolio of loans,
       rising delinquency levels, increases in the number of customers seeking
       protection under the bankruptcy laws, resulting in accounts being charged
       off as uncollectible, and the effects of fraud by third parties or
       customers.

     - Intense and increasing competition from numerous providers of financial
       services who may employ various competitive strategies. We face
       competition from national, regional and local originators of
       non-conforming mortgages, business credit cards and business equipment
       leases, some of which have greater resources than we do.

     - The effects of interest rate fluctuations on our net interest margin and
       the value of our assets and liabilities; the continued legal or
       commercial availability of techniques (including interest rate swaps and
       similar financial instruments, loan repricing, hedging and other
       techniques) that we use to manage the risk of such fluctuations and the
       continuing operational viability of those techniques and the accounting
       and regulatory treatment of such instruments.

     - Difficulties or delays in the securitization of our receivables and the
       resulting impact on the cost and availability of such funding. Such
       difficulties and delays may result from changes in the availability of
       credit enhancement in securitizations, the current economic, legal,
       regulatory, accounting and tax environments and adverse changes in the
       performance of the securitized assets.

     - The amount, type and cost of financing available to us, including secured
       financing, and any changes to that financing including any impact from
       changes in the current economic, legal, regulatory, accounting and tax
       environments, adverse changes in the performance of our owned loan
       portfolio, any impact from changes in our debt ratings and the activities
       of parties with which we have agreements or understandings, including any
       activities affecting any investment.

     - Changes in our aggregate accounts, loan balances or subserviced
       receivables volume, and the growth rate thereof, including changes
       resulting from factors such as shifting product mix, amount of actual
       marketing investment made by us, prepayment of loan balances, changes in
       relationships with significant customers and general economic conditions
       and other factors beyond our control.

     - The impact of "seasoning" (the average age of a lender's portfolio) on
       our level of delinquencies and losses which may require a higher
       allowance for loan losses for on-balance sheet assets and may adversely
       impact mortgage and business loan and lease securitization income. The
       addition of account originations or balances and the attrition of such
       accounts or balances could significantly impact the seasoning of our
       overall portfolio.
                                       16
<PAGE>   18

     - The amount of, and rate of growth in, our expenses (including employee
       and marketing expenses) as our businesses develop or change and we expand
       into new market areas; the acquisition or disposition of assets
       (interest-earning, fixed or other); the effects of changes within our
       organization or in our compensation and benefit plans; and the impact of
       unusual items resulting from the ongoing evaluation of our business
       strategies, asset valuations and organizational structures.

     - Difficulties or delays in the development, production, testing and
       marketing of products or services, including, but not limited to, a
       failure to implement new product or service programs when anticipated,
       the failure of or delay in customers' acceptance of these products or
       services, losses associated with the testing of new products or services
       or financial, legal or other difficulties as may arise in the course of
       such implementation.

     - The effects of, and changes in, tax laws, rates, regulations and
       policies.

     - The effects of, and changes in, social conditions and general economic
       conditions, including inflation.

     - The effects of, and changes in, the level of scrutiny, regulatory
       requirements and regulatory initiatives resulting from the fact that our
       banking and finance businesses are highly regulated and subject to review
       and examination by federal and state regulators, including the Office of
       the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance
       Corporation.

     - The effects of, and changes in, monetary and fiscal policies, federal and
       state laws and regulations (financial, consumer, regulatory or
       otherwise), and other activities of governments, agencies and other
       similar organizations, including the Office of the Comptroller of the
       Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

     - The costs and other effects of legal and administrative cases and
       proceedings, settlements and investigations, claims and changes in those
       items, developments or assertions by or against us or any of our
       subsidiaries; adoptions of new, or changes in existing, accounting
       policies and practices and the application of such policies and
       practices.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

At December 31, 1999, Advanta owned two buildings in Horsham, Pennsylvania
totaling 198,000 square feet. These buildings are primarily used by Advanta
Mortgage and Advanta Business Cards. Advanta leased 109,511 square feet in
Spring House, Pennsylvania for its principal executive offices as well as some
of its Advanta Mortgage operations. Advanta leased an additional 39,203 square
feet in two buildings in the Pennsylvania suburbs of Philadelphia that are used
to support certain corporate staff functions. In the adjoining state of New
Jersey Advanta owned one building consisting of 56,196 square feet and leased
24,090 square feet of office space in 2 buildings for its Advanta Leasing
Services and Advanta Business Cards operations. In Delaware, Advanta leased
36,589 square feet of office space for Advanta National Bank. In New York,
Advanta leased 4,873 square feet of office space for Advanta Partners. Advanta
also leased an additional 164,650 square feet of office space located in 2
buildings in California for Advanta Mortgage and 50,625 square feet of office
space in Utah for Advanta Bank Corp.

     In addition to these principal locations in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New
York, Delaware California and Utah, Advanta leased 76,843 square feet of office
space in twenty-three states to support its Advanta Mortgage loan production
offices. Advanta leased an additional 7,151 square feet of office space in seven
states to support Advanta Mortgage and Advanta Leasing Services.

     Advanta leased a total of 5,995 square feet of surplus office space in four
states as a result of office relocations related to Advanta Mortgage. Advanta
sublets 5,112 square feet of this surplus office space to third parties and 883
square feet remain vacant.

     At December 31, 1999, the total leased and owned office space was 773,726
square feet.

                                       17
<PAGE>   19

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

On January 22, 1999, Fleet and certain of its affiliates filed a lawsuit against
Advanta Corp. and certain of its subsidiaries in Delaware Chancery Court.
Fleet's allegations, which Advanta denies, center around Fleet's assertions that
Advanta has failed to complete certain post-closing adjustments to the value of
the assets and liabilities Advanta contributed to the Fleet LLC in connection
with the Consumer Credit Card. Fleet seeks damages of approximately $141
million. Advanta has filed an answer to the complaint denying the material
allegations of the complaint, but acknowledging that Advanta contributed $1.8
million in excess liabilities in the post-closing adjustment process, after
taking into account the liabilities Advanta has already assumed. Advanta also
has filed a countercomplaint against Fleet for approximately $101 million in
damages Advanta believes have been caused by certain actions of Fleet following
closing of the Consumer Credit Card Transaction. Formal discovery has begun and
is ongoing. Management expects that the ultimate resolution of this litigation
will not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or future
operating results of Advanta.

     On or about March 26, 1999, a complaint was filed by John Uphaus,
individually and on behalf of a class, against Household Bank (Nevada) N.A.
("Household") and Advanta National Bank in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of Illinois. Uphaus alleges that he had a credit card
account with Household, which account was purchased by Advanta National Bank. He
further alleges that the annual percentage rate on a portion of his account was
increased in a manner contrary to the promotional material he received.
Advanta's preliminary investigation suggests that if a change in interest rate
took place, as alleged by Uphaus, that change occurred after the contribution of
Advanta's consumer credit card portfolio, and it was made by Fleet LLC. In any
event, Fleet LLC is obligated to defend and indemnify Advanta pursuant to the
Contribution Agreement and the Licensing Agreement between the parties. Advanta
National Bank's response to this complaint was originally due on June 21, 1999.
The court has extended this deadline several times to allow the parties to
exchange information; thus, no response has been filed by either defendant.

     Advanta and its subsidiaries are involved in other legal proceedings,
claims and litigation, including those arising in the ordinary course of
business. Management believes that the aggregate liabilities, if any, resulting
from those actions will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated
financial position or results of operations of Advanta. However, as the ultimate
resolution of these proceedings is influenced by factors outside of Advanta's
control, it is reasonably possible that Advanta's estimated liability under
these proceedings may change.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

Not applicable.

                                       18
<PAGE>   20

                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Each of the executive officers of Advanta Corp. and its subsidiaries listed
below was elected by the applicable Board of Directors, to serve at the pleasure
of the Board in the capacities indicated.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
NAME                             AGE                        OFFICE                        DATE ELECTED
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                              <C>    <C>                                               <C>
Dennis Alter                     57     Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive             1972
                                        Officer
William A. Rosoff                56     Vice Chairman of the Board and President              1996
Philip M. Browne                 40     Senior Vice President and Chief Financial             1998
                                        Officer
George O. Deehan                 57     Chief Executive Officer, Advanta Leasing              1998
                                        Services
James L. Shreero                 39     Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer           1999
</TABLE>

     Mr. Alter became Executive Vice President and a Director of Advanta Corp.'s
predecessor organization in 1967. He was elected President and Chief Executive
Officer in 1972, and Chairman of the Board of Directors in August 1985. Mr.
Alter has remained as Chairman of the Board since August 1985. In February 1986,
he relinquished the title of President, and in August 1995 he relinquished the
title of Chief Executive Officer. In October 1997, Mr. Alter reassumed the title
of Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Alter is a director of Next Left, Inc. a
privately held internet service company.

     Mr. Rosoff joined Advanta Corp. in January 1996 as a Director and Vice
Chairman. In October 1999, Mr. Rosoff became President as well as Vice Chairman
of the Board of Advanta Corp. Prior to joining Advanta Corp., Mr. Rosoff was a
long time partner of the law firm of Wolf, Block, Schorr and Solis-Cohen LLP,
Advanta Corp.'s outside counsel, where he advised Advanta Corp. for over 20
years. While at Wolf, Block, Schorr and Solis-Cohen LLP he served as Chairman of
its Executive Committee and, immediately before joining Advanta Corp., as a
member of its Executive Committee and Chairman of its Tax Department. Mr. Rosoff
is a Trustee of Atlantic Realty Trust, a publicly held real estate investment
trust.

     Mr. Browne joined Advanta Corp. in June 1998 as Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining Advanta Corp., he was an Audit and
Business Advisory Partner at Arthur Andersen LLP where, for over sixteen years,
he audited public and private companies and provided business advisory and
consulting services to financial services companies. Mr. Browne had served as
the Arthur Andersen engagement partner for Advanta Corp. since 1994.

     Mr. Deehan was elected President and Chief Executive Officer of Advanta
Leasing Services in December 1998. Prior to joining Advanta Leasing Services,
Mr. Deehan served AT&T Capital a           company. Mr. Deehan served AT&T
Capital in various capacities, including serving as President of Information
Technology Services for AT&T Capital, President and Chief Operating Officer of
NCR Credit Corporation, and Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales of AT&T
Capital, Canada. Prior to joining AT&T Capital, Mr. Deehan held numerous
positions with financial services companies.

     Mr. Shreero was elected Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of
Advanta Corp. in April 1999. Mr. Shreero has served as Senior Vice President of
Advanta Corp.'s subsidiary, Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA since 1993. Prior to
joining Advanta Corp., Mr. Shreero served as Senior Manager at Deloitte &
Touche, a public accounting firm, from 1989 to 1993, where he performed audits
of and provided business consulting services to financial services companies.

                                       19
<PAGE>   21

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS.

COMMON STOCK PRICE RANGES AND DIVIDENDS

     The Company's common stock is traded on the National Market System of The
Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. under the symbols ADVNB (Class B non-voting common
stock) and ADVNA (Class A voting common stock).

     Following are the high, low and closing sale prices and cash dividends
declared for the last two years as they apply to each class of stock:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 CASH
                                                                               DIVIDENDS
QUARTER ENDED:                                    HIGH      LOW      CLOSE     DECLARED
- --------------                                   ------    ------    ------    ---------
<S>                                              <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
CLASS B:
March 1998                                       $31.25    $19.69    $21.00     $.0756
June 1998                                         24.25     17.50     19.88      .0756
September 1998                                    20.56      8.25     10.50      .0756
December 1998                                     12.00      5.25     11.06      .0756
March 1999                                       $12.31    $ 7.75    $ 8.94     $.0756
June 1999                                         14.75      7.59     13.56      .0756
September 1999                                    19.13     11.38     11.75      .0756
December 1999                                     15.88     10.44     14.06      .0756
CLASS A:
March 1998                                       $32.75    $21.00    $22.50     $.0630
June 1998                                         26.25     19.25     21.94      .0630
September 1998                                    22.75      9.38     12.88      .0630
December 1998                                     14.88      7.13     13.25      .0630
March 1999                                       $15.19    $10.31    $11.06     $.0630
June 1999                                         18.25      9.63     18.06      .0630
September 1999                                    23.94     14.63     14.63      .0630
December 1999                                     20.38     14.63     18.25      .0630
</TABLE>

     At December 31, 1999, the Company had approximately 805 and 315 holders of
record of Class B and Class A common stock, respectively.

     Although the Company anticipates that comparable cash dividends will
continue to be paid in the future, the payment of future dividends by the
Company will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on
numerous factors including the Company's cash flow, financial condition, capital
requirements and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant.

                                       20
<PAGE>   22

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)                     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          1999          1998          1997          1996          1995
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Summary of Operations(1)
  Noninterest revenues                 $   326,297   $   417,392   $   825,895   $   799,570   $   532,380
  Interest revenues                        246,226       245,340       436,860       354,927       249,566
  Interest expense                         167,676       184,275       324,558       269,700       166,032
  Gain on transfer of consumer credit
    card business                                0       541,288             0             0             0
  Provision for credit losses               42,647        67,193       210,826        96,862        53,326
  Minority interest in income of
    consolidated subsidiary                  8,880         8,880         8,880           222             0
  Operating expenses                       337,061       379,764       621,961       522,952       350,685
  Unusual charges(2)                        16,713       125,072             0             0             0
  Net income                                49,818       447,880        71,625       175,657       136,677
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Per Common Share Data
  Net Income
  Basic
    Combined(3)                        $      1.99   $     16.65   $      1.52   $      4.15   $      3.38
    Class A                                   1.95         16.62          1.45          4.08          3.34
    Class B                                   2.02         16.68          1.57          4.19          3.42
  Diluted
    Combined(3)                               1.96         15.71          1.50          3.89          3.20
    Class A                                   1.93         15.69          1.43          3.86          3.18
    Class B                                   1.99         15.73          1.54          3.91          3.22
  Cash dividends declared
    Class A                                   .252          .252          .440          .380          .290
    Class B                                   .302          .302          .528          .456          .348
  Book value-combined                        23.14         21.26         19.01         18.06         14.35
  Closing stock price
    Class A                                  18.25         13.25         26.25         42.75         38.25
    Class B                                  14.06         11.06         25.38         40.88         36.38
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Financial Condition -- Year End
  Investments and money market
    instruments(4)                     $ 1,387,655   $ 1,662,343   $ 2,092,292   $ 1,653,384   $ 1,089,317
  Gross receivables
    Owned                                1,480,305     1,120,360     3,352,236     2,618,392     2,732,933
    Securitized                          8,760,918     8,659,797    14,505,968    13,670,801     9,482,422
                                       -------------------------------------------------------------------
    Managed                             10,241,223     9,780,157    17,858,204    16,289,193    12,215,355
  Total serviced receivables(5)         22,142,890    18,058,485    27,039,669    19,981,285    12,838,272
  Total assets
    Owned                                3,689,662     3,721,420     6,655,915     5,583,959     4,524,259
    Managed                             11,977,045    12,065,183    20,945,748    19,141,467    13,943,506
  Deposits                               1,512,359     1,749,790     3,017,611     1,860,058     1,906,601
  Long-term debt                           788,508     1,030,147     2,248,172     2,305,081     1,279,190
  Capital securities(6)                    100,000       100,000       100,000       100,000             0
  Stockholders' equity                     589,631       560,304       926,950       852,036       672,964
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Selected Financial Ratios
  Return on average assets                    1.34%        11.95%         1.09%         3.16%         4.06%
  Return on average common equity             8.82         82.76          8.47         25.31         26.15
  Return on average total equity(7)           8.30         64.81          8.12         22.07         24.75
  Equity/managed assets(7)                    5.76          5.47          4.90          4.95          4.81
  Equity/owned assets(7)                     18.69         17.74         15.43         17.05         14.87
  Dividend payout                            15.67          1.62         33.34         10.75          9.97
  As a percentage of managed
    receivables:
    Total loans 30 days or more
       delinquent(8)                           8.2           7.7           6.0           5.4           3.3
    Net charge-offs(8)                         1.6           2.5           5.3           3.2           2.2
    Operating expenses                         3.3           3.6           3.4           2.9           2.9
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                       21
<PAGE>   23

(1) Results through February 1998 include the results of the consumer credit
    card unit.

(2) 1999 amounts included charges associated with cost reduction initiatives in
    the first quarter and additional costs associated with products exited in
    the first quarter of 1998. 1998 amounts included severance and outplacement
    costs associated with workforce reduction, option exercises and other
    employee costs associated with the Consumer Credit Card Transaction/Tender
    Offer; expense associated with exited business/product and asset impairment;
    and equity losses related to exited business/product.

(3) Combined represents a weighted average of Class A and Class B (see Note 1 to
    Consolidated Financial Statements).

(4) Includes federal funds sold, restricted interest-bearing deposits, trading
    investments, investments available for sale and subordinated trust assets.

(5) Represents total managed receivables plus contract servicing receivables.

(6) Represents company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of
    subsidiary trust holding solely subordinated debentures of Advanta.

(7) In 1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996, return on average total equity, equity/managed
    assets and equity/owned assets include capital securities as equity. The
    ratios without capital securities for 1999 were 8.82%, 4.92%, and 15.98%,
    respectively, for 1998 were 74.75%, 4.64% and 15.06%, respectively, for 1997
    were 8.33%, 4.43% and 13.93%, respectively and for 1996 were 22.31%, 4.45%,
    and 15.26%, respectively.

(8) Beginning in 1996, charge-off rates reflect the adoption of a new consumer
    credit card charge-off methodology. This new policy related to consumer
    credit card bankruptcies and provided up to a 90 day investigative period
    following notification of the bankruptcy petition prior to charge-off.

                                       22
<PAGE>   24

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

For the year ended December 31, 1999, we reported net income of $49.8 million or
$1.96 per combined common share, assuming dilution, compared to $447.9 million
or $15.71 per combined diluted common share for the year ended December 31,
1998. For the year ended December 31, 1997, we reported net income of $71.6
million or $1.50 per combined diluted common share. For the year ended December
31, 1999, net income (loss) was ($11.0) million for Advanta Mortgage, $22.8
million for Advanta Business Cards and $3.0 million for Advanta Leasing
Services.

     The earnings reported for 1999 include unusual charges, after tax, of $4.1
million for severance and outplacement costs associated with cost cutting
initiatives implemented in the first quarter of 1999 and $6.1 million of
additional costs associated with products exited in the first quarter of 1998.
In addition, in 1999 we recognized non-operating gains of $16.5 million, after
tax, in connection with an investment held by Advanta Partners LP, our private
equity investment affiliate, and other non-operating charges of $10.2 million
related to our exit from the auto finance business. The earnings for the year
ended December 31, 1999 also include a reduction in our retained interest-only
strip of $19.4 million, after tax, reflecting the adoption of more conservative
fair value assumptions, a $7.3 million after tax charge for the write-down of
assets associated with the curtailment of the corporate finance business, and a
tax benefit of $50.0 million related to the former consumer credit card
business.

     Our earnings reported for 1998 reflect the $541.3 million gain on the
Consumer Credit Card Transaction (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements), a $62.3 million pretax charge for severance and outplacement costs
associated with workforce reduction, option exercises and other employee costs
associated with the Consumer Credit Card Transaction/Tender Offer, a $54.1
million pretax charge for expenses associated with exited businesses and
products, $41.8 million of equity securities losses and an $8.7 million pretax
charge for facility impairments.

     For the year ended December 31, 1998, net income (loss) was $25.1 million
for Advanta Mortgage, $11.6 million for Advanta Business Cards and ($1.2)
million for Advanta Leasing Services. In addition, included in the net income
for 1998 was $10.2 million contributed by the consumer credit card business unit
before the Consumer Credit Card Transaction. Net income for 1997 was $33.3
million for Advanta Mortgage, $3.0 million for Advanta Business Cards, $11.8 for
Advanta Leasing Services, and $22.9 million for the consumer credit card
business unit.

ADVANTA MORTGAGE

OVERVIEW

Advanta Mortgage makes nonconforming home equity loans directly to consumers and
through brokers. This business unit originates and services first and second
lien mortgage loans, including home equity lines of credit, directly through
subsidiaries of Advanta. In addition to servicing and managing the loans it
originates, Advanta Mortgage contracts with third parties to service their
nonconforming home equity loans on a subservicing basis.

     Our decision to grow the on-balance sheet portfolio of mortgage loans and
reduce securitization income, as well as $32.0 million of charges associated
with more conservative fair value assumptions related to our retained interests,
resulted in Advanta Mortgage reporting a net loss of $11.0 million for the year
ended December 31, 1999. This compares to net income of $25.1 million for the
year ended December 31, 1998. During 1999, the retained interest-only strip and
contractual mortgage servicing rights from Advanta Mortgage securitizations
decreased by $75.2 million to $208.3 million at December 31, 1999 as compared to
$283.5 million at December 31, 1998. On a pro forma portfolio lender basis, the
net income of Advanta Mortgage was $30.3 million in 1999 and $15.6 million in
1998. See "Portfolio Lender Analysis."

                                       23
<PAGE>   25

     Net income for Advanta Mortgage was $25.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 1998, compared to $33.3 million for the year ended December 31,
1997. The decrease in net income in 1998 as compared to 1997 was partially a
reflection of our decision to report income for Advanta Mortgage that is
essentially equal to that of a portfolio lender, rather than the front-ended
income typically reported through gain on sale accounting. During 1998, net
income for Advanta Mortgage included a $51.0 million pretax charge recorded to
adjust the retained interest-only strip to fair value reflecting increases in
prepayment speeds experienced during the year. A similar charge of $42.4 million
was recorded in 1997.

SECURITIZATION INCOME

Advanta Mortgage recognized gains of $120.5 million from the securitization and
sale of $2.3 billion of loans in the year ended December 31, 1999, and
recognized gains of $183.3 million from the securitization and sale of $4.9
billion of loans in the year ended December 31, 1998. Total Advanta Mortgage
loan sales/ securitization volume decreased 54% for the year ended December 31,
1999, as compared to the year ended December 31, 1998. The decrease in
sales/securitization volume resulted primarily from our decision to grow the
portfolio of on-balance sheet loans and our decision to report income that is
essentially equal to that of a portfolio lender. Total Advanta Mortgage
sales/securitization volume in the year ended December 31, 1998 of $4.9 billion,
increased 43% over the volume in the year ended December 31, 1997. The increase
in sales/ securitization volume during 1998 resulted primarily from a 45%
increase in mortgages originated.

     Gains on the sale of receivables, which represent 5.4% of the loans sold in
the year ended December 31, 1999, are higher as a percentage of loans sold than
the $183.3 million or 3.8% recognized in 1998, and the $114.4 million or 3.4%
recognized in 1997. The increase in gain as a percentage of loans sold for both
periods is primarily due to the higher proportion of loans sold that were
directly originated. Typically, the gain realized from loans directly originated
is higher than the gain from loans that are indirectly originated due to
premiums paid to third parties for indirect loan originations. For the year
ended December 31, 1999, direct originations represented 61% of Advanta
Mortgage's total originations, as compared to 32% in 1998 and 25% in 1997.
During 1999, the shift from indirect to direct originations also resulted in
improved operating cash flow. Origination fees received from direct originations
are a source of cash, whereas, premiums paid on indirect originations are a use
of cash.

     For the year ended December 31, 1999, securitization income included a
$32.0 million pretax charge associated with more conservative fair value
assumptions related to retained interests. Securitization income included pretax
charges of $51.0 million for the year ended December 31, 1998 and $42.4 million
for the year ended December 31, 1997 to adjust the retained interest-only strip
to fair value, reflecting increases in prepayment speeds experienced during
those periods.

     The FASB is currently addressing several implementation issues relating to
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 125 "Accounting for
Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities."
One of these issues relates to an exception SFAS No. 125 currently makes for
FDIC-insured institutions. In certain circumstances, the FDIC has the authority
to repudiate contracts and reclaim assets transferred. The FDIC, upon
reclamation of assets from an FDIC-insured institution, would not be required by
law to pay interest between the date of reclamation and the date of payment,
which could indicate that the securitized assets would not meet the isolation
from creditors criterion established in SFAS No. 125. This has potentially
significant implications -- most obviously that many transfers of financial
assets by FDIC-insured institutions would not meet the isolation test and would
therefore be accounted for as secured borrowings. In January 1998, the FASB
staff announced that it would study the issue and said that, in the interim,
FDIC-insured institutions need not conclude that the FDIC receivership powers
preclude sale accounting. The FDIC recently issued a proposed regulation
addressing this issue. Under the FDIC's proposed regulation, subject to certain
conditions, the FDIC will not seek to reclaim, recover, or re-characterize as
property of an institution or a receivership estate, the financial assets or
undivided interest in a loan transferred by an institution to a special purpose
entity in connection with a securitization. The timing and ultimate resolution
of this matter is uncertain at this time.

                                       24
<PAGE>   26

PORTFOLIO LENDER ANALYSIS

Beginning in the fourth quarter of 1998, we began to report income for Advanta
Mortgage that is essentially equal to that of a portfolio lender, rather than
the front-ended income typically reported through gain on sale accounting. Since
gain on sale accounting is required under generally accepted accounting
principles for securitizations structured as sales, we intend to accomplish this
by increasing our use of on-balance sheet funding and decreasing our degree of
reliance on securitizations structured as sales over time. In this regard, we
began to analyze and evaluate Advanta Mortgage's financial results from a
portfolio lender's perspective as well as under generally accepted accounting
principles. The following tables present Advanta Mortgage's reported results
adjusted to approximate the results of a portfolio lender for the years ended
December 31, 1999 and 1998.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
($ IN THOUSANDS)                                                   YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
- ----------------                                              ---------------------------------------
                                                                ADVANTA                     PRO FORMA
                                                               MORTGAGE       PRO FORMA     PORTFOLIO
                                                              AS REPORTED    ADJUSTMENTS     LENDER
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>            <C>            <C>
REVENUES:
Securitization income                                          $ 88,548       $ (88,548)    $      0
Interest income                                                 133,367         710,969      844,336
Servicing revenues                                               99,235         (32,177)      67,058
Other revenues, net                                               4,538               0        4,538
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total revenues                                         325,688         590,244      915,932
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EXPENSES:
Operating expenses                                              230,088           7,449      237,537
Interest expense                                                 89,619         462,880      552,499
Provision for credit losses                                      16,731          51,715       68,446
Minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiary            7,482               0        7,482
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total expenses                                         343,920         522,044      865,964
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income (loss) before income taxes                               (18,232)         68,200       49,968
Income tax (benefit) expense                                     (7,238)         26,939       19,701
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net (loss) income                                              $(10,994)      $  41,261     $ 30,267
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
                                                              ---------------------------------------
                                                                ADVANTA                     PRO FORMA
                                                               MORTGAGE       PRO FORMA     PORTFOLIO
                                                              AS REPORTED    ADJUSTMENTS     LENDER
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>            <C>            <C>
REVENUES:
Securitization income                                          $132,369       $(132,369)    $      0
Interest income                                                 123,550         593,601      717,151
Servicing revenues                                               86,416         (31,016)      55,400
Other revenues, net                                              21,581               0       21,581
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total revenues                                         363,916         430,216      794,132
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EXPENSES:
Operating expenses                                              219,131           8,302      227,433
Interest expense                                                 76,056         389,386      465,442
Provision for credit losses                                      25,577          46,074       71,651
Minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiary            7,395               0        7,395
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total expenses                                         328,159         443,762      771,921
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes                                       35,757         (13,546)      22,211
Income tax expense                                               10,667          (4,064)       6,603
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                                                     $ 25,090       $  (9,482)    $ 15,608
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                       25
<PAGE>   27

     With respect to the pro forma portfolio lender results, individual line
items are stated as if the securitized mortgages were still owned by Advanta and
remained on the balance sheet. The pro forma adjustments (1) eliminate the gain
on sale, including the servicing component, (2) reflect interest income,
interest expense and operating expenses as if the sales had not occurred, and
(3) eliminate the impact of valuation adjustments reflected in the reported
results. The pro forma adjustment to provision for credit losses represents the
amount by which the provision would have increased from that reported had the
securitized Advanta Mortgage loans remained on the balance sheet and the
provision for credit losses on the securitized loans been equal to actual
reported charge-offs. The actual provision for credit losses of a portfolio
lender could differ from the recorded charge-offs depending upon the age and
composition of the portfolio and the timing of charge-offs.

     The increase in pro forma portfolio lender net income from $15.6 million in
1998 to $30.3 million in 1999 is due to our focus on direct-to-consumer
originations and on profitable loan growth over volume. The increase is also a
result of an increase in subservicing revenues due to the growth of the
subservicing portfolio.

LOAN ORIGINATIONS

Advanta Mortgage generates loans through multiple origination channels. Home
equity loans and lines of credit are originated directly from consumers using
targeted direct mail and direct response television and radio techniques, and
through our 60 loan production offices throughout the country. Mortgage loans
are also originated indirectly through a network of over 600 brokers. In the
past, Advanta Mortgage also generated loans indirectly through correspondent
relationships and purchases from other financial institutions through its
conduit and corporate finance operations. These indirect origination activities
were curtailed during 1999. Prior to exiting the auto finance business in the
first quarter of 1999, auto finance contracts were purchased from correspondent
originators. "Advanta Mortgage loans" include home equity loans, home equity
lines of credit and auto loans and exclude loans which were never owned by us,
but which we service for a fee ("subservicing" or "contract servicing").
Originations for Advanta Mortgage were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                         --------------------------------------
($ IN THOUSANDS)                                            1999          1998          1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>           <C>           <C>
Direct                                                   $1,621,037    $1,655,399    $  865,001
Broker                                                      542,115       475,427       266,002
Conduit                                                     449,848     1,752,968     1,238,339
Corporate Finance                                            37,939     1,325,447     1,103,083
Auto                                                          5,103       104,350       194,807
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                                                  $2,656,042    $5,313,591    $3,667,232
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Number of accounts:
Direct                                                       35,515        29,846        16,172
Broker                                                        6,200         5,856         3,663
Conduit                                                       5,843        22,656        17,279
Corporate Finance                                               528        17,430        13,272
Auto                                                            375         8,531        16,146
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                                                      48,461        84,319        66,532
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     The dollar volume of total Advanta Mortgage originations decreased 50% for
the year ended December 31, 1999 as compared to the year ended December 31,
1998. The dollar volume of direct originations decreased 2% for the year ended
December 31, 1999, as compared to 1998; however, the number of loans directly
originated in 1999 increased 19% over the number of loans directly originated in
1998. The dollar volume of indirect mortgage originations decreased 71% for the
year ended December 31, 1999 as compared to 1998, and the number of loans
indirectly originated decreased by 73%. The increase in the number of loans
directly originated reflects our decision to focus on direct-to-consumer
originations using our information based strategy to identify accounts with
enhanced profitability characteristics. The small decrease in the dollar volume
of direct originations in 1999 is due to the decrease in the average loan size
and our focus on profitable loan growth over volume. The decrease in indirect
originations in 1999 over 1998 resulted from our decision to

                                       26
<PAGE>   28

curtail the purchase of pools of loans through the conduit and corporate finance
channels. Consistent with the strategy of focusing on profitable loan growth
over volume, the decision was based on unfavorable market pricing and
management's commitment to purchasing loans only when the loans exceed certain
profitability characteristics. The decrease in auto loan originations in 1999
was due to our exit from the auto finance business in the first quarter of 1999.

     The dollar volume of total 1998 originations for Advanta Mortgage increased
45% as compared to 1997. The dollar volume of direct mortgage originations for
1998 increased 91% from originations for 1997 and the dollar volume of indirect
mortgage originations for 1998 increased 36% as compared to 1997. Direct
originations increased because of our direct marketing experience and
centralized telemarketing and processing capabilities. The increase in indirect
originations in 1998 was the result of our strategy to grow the portfolio.

     Advanta Mortgage originated more second lien home equity loans and home
equity lines of credit as a percentage of total originations during the year
ended December 31, 1999 than it originated during 1998 or 1997. This was
primarily due to rising market interest rates that created increased demand for
these types of loans. Second lien home equity loans represented 24% of the
dollar value of originations for the year ended December 31, 1999, compared to
9% for the year ended December 31, 1998 and 7% for the year ended December 31,
1997. Home equity lines of credit represented 10% of the managed mortgage loan
portfolio at December 31, 1999, as compared to 5% at December 31, 1998.

SERVICING REVENUES

Advanta Mortgage earns servicing revenues on securitized receivables and on the
subservicing portfolio. Servicing revenues were $99.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 1999, as compared to $86.4 million for the year ended December 31,
1998 and $61.8 million for the year ended December 31, 1997. The increase in
servicing revenues in both periods is due to an increase in average serviced
receivables of $3.0 billion in 1999 and $3.8 billion in 1998.

     Advanta Mortgage's subservicing portfolio was $11.9 billion at December 31,
1999, as compared to $8.3 billion at December 31, 1998 and $9.2 billion at
December 31, 1997. The increase in the subservicing portfolio in 1999 resulted
primarily from growth in existing clients' portfolios. The decrease in
subservicing receivables in 1998 resulted from the withdrawal of business by
certain customers who began to service their own portfolios, and from higher
prepayments in the subservicing portfolio.

     Revenues from our subservicing business are subject to volatility related
to increases or decreases in the portfolios of existing clients. Additionally,
this business is highly competitive and clients may elect to contract with other
subservicers or service their own portfolios, or they may seek to renegotiate
the pricing or other terms of their agreements with us. At December 31, 1999,
two clients represented 66% of the portfolio of subservicing receivables.

ADVANTA BUSINESS CARDS

OVERVIEW

Advanta Business Cards offers MasterCard business credit cards to small
businesses using targeted direct mail and the Internet. This product provides
approved customers with access, through merchants, banks and ATMs, to an instant
unsecured revolving business credit line. Advanta Business Cards generates
interest and other income through finance charges assessed on outstanding loans,
interchange income, and cash advance and other credit card fees.

     Net income for Advanta Business Cards was $22.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 1999 as compared to $11.6 million for year ended December 31, 1998.
Net income for Advanta Business Cards was $3.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 1997. The increase in net income in 1999 resulted from increased
volume of managed receivables, significant increases in portfolio yields due to
changes in pricing, increased interchange income and a decrease in receivable
charge-offs. The increase in net income in 1998 resulted from increased volume
of managed receivables.

                                       27
<PAGE>   29

SECURITIZATION INCOME

Advanta Business Cards recognized securitization income of $33.5 million for the
year ended December 31, 1999, $18.2 million for the year ended December 31,
1998, and $5.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1997. Advanta Business
Cards sells receivables to existing securitization trusts on a continuous basis
to replenish the investors' interest in trust receivables that have been repaid
by the card holders. The increase in securitization income in 1999 was due to
increased yields on the securitized receivables, increased volume of securitized
receivables and a decrease in receivable charge-offs. The increase in
securitization income in 1998 as compared to 1997 was due primarily to increased
volume of receivables.

ORIGINATIONS

Business card accounts are originated through targeted direct marketing
techniques, including direct mail to prospective customers, and the Internet.
Originations for Advanta Business Cards were $2.0 billion for the year ended
December 31, 1999, $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 1998 and $1.1
billion for the year ended December 31, 1997. The number of business card
accounts originated were 146 thousand in 1999 and 102 thousand in 1998 and 1997.
The increases in business card originations over prior years resulted from the
successful application of our information based strategy to expand the universe
of potential business card customers.

ADVANTA LEASING SERVICES

OVERVIEW

Advanta Leasing Services offers flexible lease financing programs on
small-ticket equipment to small businesses. The primary products financed
include office machinery, security systems and computers. The commercial
equipment leasing business is generated primarily through third-party referrals
from manufacturers or distributors of equipment, as well as independent brokers,
direct mail marketing and telemarketing. The equipment is leased under
noncancelable leases with initial terms of generally one to five years.

     Net income for Advanta Leasing Services was $3.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 1999 as compared to a net loss of $1.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 1998. The increase in net income in 1999 was attributable to a
decrease in operating expenses that resulted from cost reduction measures
implemented during 1999 as well as increased volume. Net income for Advanta
Leasing Services was $11.8 million for the year ended December 31, 1997. The
decrease in net income in 1998, as compared to 1997, resulted from increases in
costs to originate, service and manage Advanta Leasing Services' products and
from a change in the mix of lease receivables originated.

SECURITIZATION INCOME

Advanta Leasing Services recognized $14.8 million in gains on the sale of $414
million of leases for the year ended December 31, 1999, as compared to $11.7
million in gains on the sale of $299 million of leases for the year ended
December 31, 1998. As a percentage of receivables sold, these gains represented
3.6% in 1999 and 3.9% in 1998. The decrease in gain as a percentage of loans
sold in 1999 resulted from an increase in receivable charge-off rates and a
reduction in net interest income spread on securitized receivables. For the year
ended December 31, 1997, Advanta Leasing Services recognized $14.3 million or
5.2% in gains on the sale of $276 million of leases. The gain as a percentage of
loans sold of 3.9% in 1998 decreased as compared to the 5.2% gain in 1997 due to
a reduction in net interest income spread on securitized receivables. The sales
were through a combination of commercial paper conduit programs and a public
lease securitization.

                                       28
<PAGE>   30

ORIGINATIONS

Lease originations are generated primarily through third party referrals from
manufacturers, distributors or other vendors of equipment as well as through
independent brokers, direct mail marketing and telemarketing. Originations for
Advanta Leasing Services were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                             --------------------------------
($ IN THOUSANDS)                                               1999        1998        1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>         <C>         <C>
Vendor                                                       $204,128    $171,945    $168,655
Broker                                                        232,433     131,776      95,995
Other                                                          16,951      24,042      57,652
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total                                              $453,512    $327,763    $322,302
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The increase in lease originations over the prior years was due to the growth in
the number of vendor and broker relationships, as well as the expansion of
existing relationships.

ADVANTA CORP.

INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE

Interest income on receivables and investments, excluding the interest component
of previously discounted cash flows, increased by $3.2 million for the year
ended December 31, 1999 as compared to the year ended December 31, 1998. During
the same period, interest expense decreased by $16.6 million. The increase in
interest income was due to an increase in yields on receivables, partially
offset by a decrease in average interest-earning assets as a result of the
transfer of consumer credit card receivables in the Consumer Credit Card
Transaction in 1998. The decrease in interest expense was due to a decrease in
the cost of funds, as well as a reduction in interest-bearing liabilities in
connection with the Consumer Credit Card Transaction in 1998.

     Interest income on receivables and investments, excluding the interest
component of previously discounted cash flows, decreased $195.5 million for the
year ended December 31, 1998 as compared to 1997. During the same period,
interest expense decreased by $140.3 million. The decreases in interest income
and interest expense were mainly attributable to the decrease in our owned
interest-bearing assets and liabilities following the Consumer Credit Card
Transaction/Tender Offer. Also impacting interest income on receivables during
1998 were consumer credit card securitization transactions prior to the Consumer
Credit Card Transaction and the mix of receivables.

     Our cost of funds decreased to 5.87% in 1999 from 6.26% in 1998. Our cost
of funds was 6.31% in 1997. The decrease in the cost of funds in 1999 as
compared to 1998 and 1997 was primarily attributable to the increase in the use
of deposits as a funding source. Deposits represented 66% of total average
interest-bearing liabilities for the year ended December 31, 1999 as compared to
50% in 1998 and 48% in 1997.

     The following table provides an analysis of owned interest income and
expense data, average balance sheet data, net interest spread, and net interest
margin. Net interest spread represents the difference between the yield on
interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing
liabilities. Net interest margin represents the difference between the yield on
interest-earning assets and the average rate paid to fund interest-earning
assets. Average owned loan and lease receivables and the related interest
revenues include certain loan fees and costs.

                                       29
<PAGE>   31

                             INTEREST RATE ANALYSIS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
($ IN THOUSANDS)             ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          1999                              1998                               1997
                             -------------------------------   -------------------------------   --------------------------------
                              AVERAGE                AVERAGE    AVERAGE                AVERAGE     AVERAGE                AVERAGE
                              BALANCE     INTEREST    RATE      BALANCE     INTEREST    RATE       BALANCE     INTEREST    RATE
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                          <C>          <C>        <C>       <C>          <C>        <C>       <C>           <C>        <C>
ON-BALANCE SHEET
- ---------------------------
Interest-earning assets:
  Receivables:
    Mortgage loans           $  779,373   $ 73,319     9.41%   $  730,798   $ 69,012     9.44%   $   525,452   $ 48,846     9.30%
    Business cards              212,311     35,265    16.61       146,515     21,549    14.71        186,369     26,328    14.13
    Leases                      109,848     10,880     9.90       102,192     10,768    10.54        105,515     12,034    11.41
    Auto loans                   14,604      2,166    14.83        47,459      8,300    17.49         60,776      9,858    16.22
    Consumer credit
      cards(1)                        0          0     0.00       384,697     23,457     6.10      1,728,039    179,732    10.40
    Other loans                  17,450      2,188    12.54        15,724      1,858    11.82         31,810      2,639     8.30
                             ----------   --------   ------    ----------   --------   ------    -----------   --------   ------
  Total receivables(2)        1,133,586    123,818    10.92     1,427,385    134,944     9.45      2,637,961    279,437    10.59
  Subordinated trust assets     336,254     27,227     8.10       209,043     14,173     6.78        108,653      8,510     7.83
  Federal funds sold            272,330     13,535     4.97       203,485     10,933     5.37        345,404     18,659     5.40
  Restricted
    interest-bearing
    deposits                    166,490     11,102     6.67       265,915     16,075     6.05        883,311     54,399     6.16
  Trading investments           110,565      6,752     6.11       172,084     10,374     6.03              0          0     0.00
  Tax-free securities(2)          3,857        319     8.27         4,992        407     8.15          3,926        307     7.82
  Taxable investments           798,633     44,842     5.61       673,239     37,850     5.62      1,115,706     58,870     5.28
                             ----------   --------   ------    ----------   --------   ------    -----------   --------   ------
Total interest-earning
  assets(3)                  $2,821,715   $227,595     8.06%   $2,956,143   $224,756     7.60%   $ 5,094,961   $420,182     8.25%
                             ==========   ========   ======    ==========   ========   ======    ===========   ========   ======
Interest-bearing
  liabilities:
  Deposits
    Savings                  $  262,501   $ 13,120     5.00%   $  202,943   $ 10,916     5.38%   $   402,893   $ 22,850     5.67%
    Time deposits under
      $100,000                1,063,354     60,271     5.67       909,132     54,941     6.04      1,018,163     63,473     6.23
    Time deposits of
      $100,000 or more          500,268     27,995     5.60       329,001     20,078     6.10      1,035,366     63,841     6.17
                             ----------   --------   ------    ----------   --------   ------    -----------   --------   ------
  Total deposits              1,826,123    101,386     5.55     1,441,076     85,935     5.96      2,456,422    150,164     6.11
  Debt                          893,720     58,441     6.53     1,337,508     87,204     6.52      2,452,166    156,524     6.38
  Other borrowings               54,008      3,225     5.92       102,372      7,067     6.90        232,820     17,870     7.68
                             ----------   --------   ------    ----------   --------   ------    -----------   --------   ------
Total interest-bearing
  liabilities                 2,773,851    163,052     5.87     2,880,956    180,206     6.26      5,141,408    324,558     6.31
Net noninterest-bearing
  liabilities                    47,864                            75,187                            (46,447)
                             ----------                        ----------                        -----------
Sources to fund
  interest-earning assets    $2,821,715   $163,052     5.78%   $2,956,143   $180,206     6.10%   $ 5,094,961   $324,558     6.37%
                             ==========   ========   ======    ==========   ========   ======    ===========   ========   ======
Net interest spread                                    2.19%                             1.34%                              1.94%
                                                     ======                            ======                             ======
Net interest margin(4)                                 2.29%                             1.51%                              1.88%
                                                     ======                            ======                             ======
OFF-BALANCE SHEET
- ---------------------------
Securitized receivables:
  Mortgage loans             $7,451,718                        $5,777,929                        $ 3,251,902
  Business cards                680,551                           597,677                            321,054
  Leases                        606,672                           507,007                            450,118
  Auto loans                    120,898                           180,833                             80,110
  Consumer credit cards(1)            0                         1,461,412                          9,628,905
                             ----------                        ----------                        -----------
Total average securitized
  receivables                $8,859,839                        $8,524,858                        $13,732,089
                             ==========                        ==========                        ===========
Total average managed
  receivables                $9,993,425                        $9,952,243                        $16,370,050
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) Includes consumer credit cards through February 20, 1998.
(2) Interest and average rate for tax-free securities, loans, and leases are
    computed on a tax equivalent basis using a statutory rate of 35%.
(3) Includes assets held and available for sale and nonaccrual loans and leases.
(4) Managed net interest margin was 3.75% in 1999 and 3.32% in 1998,
    representing a combination of owned interest-earning assets/owned
    interest-bearing liabilities and securitized mortgage and business card
    assets/liabilities.

                                       30
<PAGE>   32

INTEREST VARIANCE ANALYSIS: ON-BALANCE SHEET

The following table presents the effects of changes in average volume and
interest rates on individual financial statement line items on a tax equivalent
basis and including certain loan fees. Changes not solely due to volume or rate
have been allocated on a pro rata basis between volume and rate. The effects on
individual financial statement line items are not necessarily indicative of the
overall effect on net interest income.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            1999 VS. 1998                        1998 VS. 1997
($ IN THOUSANDS)                   --------------------------------    ----------------------------------
                                      INCREASE (DECREASE) DUE TO           INCREASE (DECREASE) DUE TO
                                   --------------------------------    ----------------------------------
                                    VOLUME       RATE       TOTAL       VOLUME        RATE        TOTAL
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>
Interest income from:
  Loan and lease receivables:
    Mortgage loans                 $  4,529    $   (222)   $  4,307    $  19,417    $    749    $  20,166
    Business cards                   10,652       3,064      13,716       (5,823)      1,044       (4,779)
    Leases                              784        (672)        112         (370)       (896)      (1,266)
    Auto loans                       (5,029)     (1,105)     (6,134)      (2,285)        727       (1,558)
    Consumer credit cards(1)        (23,457)          0     (23,457)    (102,016)    (54,259)    (156,275)
    Other loans                         212         118         330       (1,642)        861         (781)
  Subordinated trust assets           9,890       3,164      13,054        6,938      (1,275)       5,663
  Federal funds sold                  3,467        (865)      2,602       (7,632)        (94)      (7,726)
  Restricted interest-bearing
    deposits                         (6,491)      1,518      (4,973)     (37,369)       (955)     (38,324)
  Trading investments                (3,758)        136      (3,622)      10,374           0       10,374
  Tax-free securities                   (94)          6         (88)          86          14          100
  Taxable investments                 7,059         (67)      6,992      (24,610)      3,590      (21,020)
                                   --------    --------    --------    ---------    --------    ---------
Total interest income(2)           $ (2,236)   $  5,075    $  2,839    $(144,932)   $(50,494)   $(195,426)
                                   --------    --------    --------    ---------    --------    ---------
Interest expense on:
  Deposits:
    Savings                        $  3,019    $   (815)   $  2,204    $ (10,814)   $ (1,120)     (11,934)
    Time deposits
      under $100,000                  8,859      (3,529)      5,330       (6,666)     (1,866)      (8,532)
    Time deposits
      of $100,000 or more             9,682      (1,765)      7,917      (43,074)       (689)     (43,763)
  Debt                              (28,897)        134     (28,763)     (72,675)      3,355      (69,320)
  Other borrowings                   (2,954)       (888)     (3,842)      (9,150)     (1,653)     (10,803)
                                   --------    --------    --------    ---------    --------    ---------
Total interest expense             $(10,291)   $ (6,863)   $(17,154)   $(142,379)   $ (1,973)   $(144,352)
                                   --------    --------    --------    ---------    --------    ---------
Net interest income                $  8,055    $ 11,938    $ 19,993    $  (2,553)   $(48,521)   $ (51,074)
</TABLE>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1) Includes consumer credit cards through February 20, 1998.

(2) Includes income from assets held and available for sale.

GAIN ON TRANSFER OF CONSUMER CREDIT CARD BUSINESS

In 1998 we recognized a gain of $541.3 million which represented the excess of
liabilities transferred to Fleet Credit Card LLC ("Fleet LLC") over the net
basis of the assets transferred and our retained minority membership interest in
Fleet LLC. At the closing date of the Consumer Credit Card Transaction, the
minority interest was a 4.99% ownership interest in Fleet LLC valued at $20
million. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       31
<PAGE>   33

OTHER REVENUES

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
($ IN THOUSANDS)                                                  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------------------
                                                               1999        1998        1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>         <C>
Equity securities gains (losses)                              $30,391    $(41,750)   $(11,426)
Business card interchange income                               33,786      20,741      11,617
Consumer credit card interchange income                             0      11,881      85,208
Consumer credit card overlimit fees                                 0      16,233      46,447
Mortgage other (loss) income                                   (9,686)     22,945       4,535
Leasing other revenues                                         15,399      14,519      25,748
Insurance revenues, net                                         8,206      14,408      37,816
Other                                                           4,387       1,149      18,021
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total other revenues, net                                     $82,483    $ 60,126    $217,966
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 1999 include equity
securities gains of $30.4 million, representing changes in the fair value and
realized gains on Advanta Partners LP investments. Included in this amount is an
$18 million gain on an investment in a company that was merged with another
entity in exchange for that entity's stock in the first quarter of 1999. The
stock received had a value significantly higher than Advanta Partners' basis in
its investment. In the second quarter of 1999, Advanta Partners sold the
majority of this stock, realizing an additional gain of approximately $10
million. Partially offsetting this gain in the second quarter was the write-down
of another equity investment of approximately $0.8 million. Other revenues for
the year ended December 31, 1998 included equity securities losses of $41.8
million representing changes in the fair value and realized losses of Advanta
Partners investments. Most of the loss in 1998 relates to investments not
publicly traded for which Advanta Partners decided to expedite a disposal plan.

     In 1999, mortgage other loss included a write-down of assets associated
with the corporate finance business of $12 million. In 1998, mortgage other
income included an $11.2 million gain on the sale of an investment in affordable
housing partnerships and $6 million from the favorable settlement of certain
prior year claims.

     Business card interchange income increased by $13.0 million for the year
ended December 31, 1999, as compared to 1998, and increased by $9.1 million in
1998 as compared to 1997. The increase in 1999 was due to an increase in
interchange rates, as well as an increase in average managed business card
receivables. The increase in 1998 was due to an increase in average managed
business card receivables.

     The decline in consumer credit card interchange income, consumer credit
card overlimit fees, insurance revenues and "other" other revenues in 1998 as
compared to 1997 was attributable to the transfer of the consumer credit card
portfolio in the Consumer Credit Card Transaction. Also, the decline in
insurance revenues in 1999 of $6.2 million as compared to 1998 was primarily due
to the absence of premiums related to the consumer credit card portfolio.

                                       32
<PAGE>   34

OPERATING EXPENSES

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              --------------------------------
                      ($ IN THOUSANDS)                          1999        1998        1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>         <C>
Salaries and employee benefits                                $123,768    $152,706    $219,954
Marketing                                                       58,671      53,109      53,039
Professional/consulting fees                                    24,244      14,767      38,600
Equipment expense                                               21,039      23,381      37,712
Credit and collection expense                                   20,264      15,715      20,017
Occupancy expense                                               16,347      16,001      23,097
External processing                                             14,936      21,908      43,256
Telephone expense                                               11,091      12,428      21,262
Postage                                                          5,958       8,949      29,039
Amortization of credit card deferred origination costs, net      5,863      22,271      69,344
Credit card fraud losses                                           833       3,194      22,287
Other                                                           34,047      35,335      44,354
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total operating expenses                                      $337,061    $379,764    $621,961
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
At year end:
  Number of accounts managed (in thousands)                        678         565       6,342
  Number of employees                                            2,643       2,568       4,498
For the year:
  Operating expenses as a percentage of average managed
    receivables(1)                                                3.31%       3.59%       3.38%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) Excludes amortization of credit card deferred origination costs, net.

     Operating expenses as a percentage of average managed receivables for the
year ended December 31, 1999 decreased as compared to 1998 due to cost reduction
measures implemented during 1999. Operating expenses as a percentage of average
managed receivables increased during 1998 in comparison to 1997 due to lost
economies of scale resulting from the downsizing pursuant to the Consumer Credit
Card Transaction, and our plan to expand certain aspects of our infrastructure
to better position Advanta for the future.

     Total operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 1999 decreased by
$42.7 million as compared to 1998 and decreased by $242.2 million in 1998 as
compared to 1997. The decrease in 1999 was due to cost reduction measures, as
well as consumer credit card expenses incurred through February 1998 that are
included in 1998 amounts. The decrease in 1998 as compared to 1997 was the
result of the Consumer Credit Card Transaction as well as the other business and
product dispositions in 1998.

     Professional fees increased by $9.5 million for the year ended December 31,
1999 as compared to 1998. This increase was due, in part, to increased legal
activity, as well as consulting and outsourcing costs associated with Advanta's
strategic management of capacity and resources, and costs associated with the
Year 2000 issue.

     Salaries and employee benefits decreased $67.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 1998 as compared to 1997. This reduction was due to the decrease in
the number of employees as a result of the Consumer Credit Card Transaction as
well as workforce reductions and other business and product dispositions in
1998.

PROVISION FOR CREDIT LOSSES

For the year ended December 31, 1999, the provision for credit losses decreased
by $24.5 million as compared to 1998. The 1998 provision included a $28.3
million provision related to the consumer credit card business. The decrease in
the consumer credit card provision was partially offset by a $3.8 million net
increase in the provision recorded on other products, including a $4.3 million
decrease in the provision on Advanta Mortgage loans, a $123 thousand increase in
the provision on lease receivables, and a $7.9 million increase in the provision
on business cards. The decrease in the provision on Advanta Mortgage loans was
due to a decrease in

                                       33
<PAGE>   35

levels of delinquencies and nonperforming assets in owned receivables. The
increase in the provision on business cards was due to a 45% increase in average
on-balance sheet business card receivables in 1999.

     The provision for credit losses of $67.2 million in 1998 decreased $143.6
million or 68% from the provision of $210.8 million in 1997. The decrease was
due to the contribution of the consumer credit card business in the Consumer
Credit Card Transaction. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in
the allowance for Advanta Mortgage loan losses resulting from our decision to
increase the level of loans that will remain on the balance sheet in connection
with our change in funding strategy.

CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT

Management regularly reviews the loan and lease portfolio in order to evaluate
the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses. The evaluation includes such
factors as the inherent credit quality of the loan and lease portfolio, past
experience including frequency of defaults and loss severity, current economic
conditions and changes in the composition of the loan and lease portfolio. The
allowance for credit losses is maintained for on-balance sheet receivables and
is intended to cover all credit losses inherent in the owned loan portfolio.
Anticipated losses on securitized assets are reflected in the calculations of
securitization income and retained interests in securitizations. See Notes 1 and
2 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such loss estimates are intended to
cover all probable credit losses over the life of the securitized receivables.
Management continually evaluates both its on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet
estimates and, as appropriate, effects changes to these amounts.

     At December 31, 1999, the allowance for credit losses on a consolidated
basis was $41.8 million, or 2.8% of owned receivables, compared to $33.4
million, or 3.0%, at December 31, 1998. The Advanta Mortgage allowance for
credit losses was 2.1% at December 31, 1999 as a percentage of owned
receivables, as compared to 2.4% at December 31, 1998. This decrease in the
Advanta Mortgage allowance was due to the improvement in the levels of
delinquencies and nonperforming assets in 1999. The allowance for credit losses
on business card receivables increased from 4.6% as a percentage of owned
receivables at December 31, 1998 to 5.3% at December 31, 1999. The increase was
due to the expansion of the business card customer base during 1999.

     At December 31, 1998, the allowance for credit losses of $33.4 million, or
3.0% of owned receivables, had decreased from the allowance of $137.8 million,
or 4.1% of owned receivables, at December 31, 1997. The decrease in the
allowance was primarily related to the Consumer Credit Card Transaction. The
allowance on consumer credit cards was $118.4 million or 4.6% of owned
receivables at December 31, 1997. The allowance as a percentage of receivables
on consumer credit cards was higher in relation to the allowance on the other
products. Since there were no consumer credit cards at December 31, 1998, the
allowance for credit losses decreased in amount and as a percentage of
receivables.

ASSET QUALITY

Nonperforming assets include: Advanta Mortgage loans, credit cards and leases
past due 90 days or more; real estate owned; and bankrupt, decedent and
fraudulent credit cards. We charge losses on nonperforming Advanta Mortgage
loans against the allowance generally at the earlier of foreclosure or when they
have become twelve months delinquent. Losses on lease receivables are generally
charged against the allowance when 121 days contractually delinquent. Our
charge-off policy, as it relates to business credit card accounts, is to
charge-off a receivable, if not paid, at 180 days contractually delinquent.
Consumer credit card accounts, if not paid, were charged-off at 186 days
contractually delinquent. Credit card accounts suspected of being fraudulent are
charged-off after a 90-day investigative period, unless the investigation shows
no evidence of fraud. The carrying value for real estate owned is based on fair
value, net of costs of disposition, and is reflected in other assets.

     Loans are put on nonaccrual status when they become 90 days past due. Gross
interest income that would have been recorded for owned nonperforming assets,
had interest been accrued throughout the year in accordance with the assets'
original terms, was $4.9 million in 1999. The amount of interest on
nonperforming assets included in income was $1.5 million in 1999.

                                       34
<PAGE>   36

     The consolidated managed charge-off rate for the year ended December 31,
1999 was 1.6%, down from 2.5% for 1998 and 5.3% for 1997. The following
represents the annual results by product:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               FOR THE YEAR ENDED
                                                              ---------------------
                                                              1999     1998    1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>      <C>     <C>
Mortgage                                                       0.78%   0.56%   0.53%
Auto                                                          13.92    9.30    7.25
Business Card                                                  4.96    5.88    3.73
Leases                                                         3.57    2.66    2.71
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     Advanta Mortgage began to emphasize profitability enhancement over loan
growth, and to emphasize the direct-to-consumer channels over indirect channels
for originations in the fourth quarter of 1998. This has resulted in a
significant reduction in the rate of portfolio growth relative to prior periods.
The decline in the growth rate has reduced the proportion of new, unseasoned
loans in the portfolio. This "seasoning" effect results in higher reported
delinquencies and charge-offs consistent with an aging portfolio. The increase
in reported delinquency and charge-off rates is primarily attributable to
seasoning of the managed mortgage loan portfolio.

                                       35
<PAGE>   37

CREDIT QUALITY -- MANAGED

The following table provides a summary of reserves, impaired assets,
delinquencies and charge-offs for the past five years:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            DECEMBER 31,
                                                     ----------------------------------------------------------
($ IN THOUSANDS)                                       1999        1998         1997         1996        1995
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                  <C>         <C>         <C>           <C>         <C>
CONSOLIDATED -- MANAGED(1)
Nonperforming assets                                 $511,301    $410,584    $  328,835    $191,668    $ 82,171
Accruing loans past due 90 days or more                     0          30       203,117     228,845      84,892
Total loans 30 days or more delinquent                838,563     753,521     1,068,183     886,717     404,072
As a percentage of gross receivables:
  Nonperforming assets                                    5.0%        4.2%          1.8%        1.2%         .7%
  Accruing loans past due 90 days or more                  .0          .0           1.1         1.4          .7
  Total loans 30 days or more delinquent:
    New methodology(2)                                    8.2         7.7           6.0         5.4
    Prior methodology                                                                           5.2(3)      3.3
Net charge-offs:
  Amount                                             $155,452    $247,287    $  860,098    $479,992    $212,865
  As a percentage of average gross receivables:
    New methodology(2)                                    1.6%        2.5%          5.3%        3.2%
    Prior methodology                                                                           3.5(3)      2.2%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ADVANTA MORTGAGE LOANS -- MANAGED
Nonperforming assets                                 $475,711    $375,520    $  200,600    $ 93,101    $ 56,743
Total loans 30 days or more delinquent                729,187     656,789       391,929     194,412     106,223
As a percentage of gross receivables:
  Nonperforming assets                                    5.7%        4.5%          3.8%        3.4%        3.2%
  Total loans 30 days or more delinquent                  8.7         7.9           7.4         7.1         5.9
Net charge-offs -- Mortgage Loans:
  Amount                                               64,303      36,142        19,953      14,970      13,836
  As a percentage of average gross receivables            0.8%        0.6%           .5%        0.7%        0.9%
Net charge-offs -- Auto Loans:
  Amount                                             $ 18,855    $ 21,238    $   10,212    $     11         N/A
  As a percentage of average gross receivables           13.9%        9.3%          7.3%         .1%        N/A
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BUSINESS CARDS -- MANAGED
Nonperforming assets                                 $ 23,498    $ 25,231    $   17,362    $  2,712         N/A
Total loans 30 days or more delinquent                 38,437      35,900        29,340       8,952         N/A
As a percentage of gross receivables:
  Nonperforming assets                                    2.3%        3.1%          2.6%        9.0%        N/A
  Total loans 30 days or more delinquent                  3.7         4.4           4.4         3.0         N/A
Net charge-offs -- Business Cards:
  Amount                                             $ 44,309    $ 43,732    $   18,928    $  4,210         N/A
  As a percentage of average gross receivables            5.0%        5.9%          3.7%        2.6%        N/A
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LEASES -- MANAGED
Nonperforming assets                                 $ 11,472    $  9,595    $    9,420    $  6,791    $  4,912
Total loans 30 days or more delinquent                 69,695      60,154        52,335      50,928      35,274
As a percentage of gross receivables:
  Nonperforming assets                                    1.4%        1.4%          1.6%        1.3%        1.3%
  Total loans 30 days or more delinquent                  8.8         9.0           8.7         9.8         9.3
Net charge-offs -- Leases:
  Amount                                             $ 25,586    $ 16,220    $   15,074    $  9,567    $  5,846
  As a percentage of average gross receivables            3.6%        2.7%          2.7%        2.2%        1.9%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) Includes consumer credit cards through February 20, 1998.
(2) Beginning in 1996, charge-off rates reflect the adoption of a new consumer
    credit card charge-off methodology. This new policy related to consumer
    credit card bankruptcies and provided up to a 90 day investigative period
    following notification of the bankruptcy petition prior to charge-off.
(3) Pro forma calculation reflecting charge-off of all credit card bankruptcies
    within 30 days of notification.

                                       36
<PAGE>   38

CREDIT QUALITY -- OWNED

The following table provides a summary of reserves, impaired assets,
delinquencies and charge-offs for the past five years:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              DECEMBER 31,
                                                          ----------------------------------------------------
($ IN THOUSANDS)                                           1999       1998        1997       1996       1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>
CONSOLIDATED -- OWNED(1)
Allowance for credit losses                               $41,847    $33,437    $137,773    $89,184    $53,494
Nonperforming assets                                       45,620     49,568      51,149     29,822     21,856
Accruing loans past due 90 days or more                         0         30      49,458     40,597     17,399
Total loans 30 days or more delinquent                     62,850     73,755     201,891    145,613     76,859
As a percentage of gross receivables:
  Allowance for credit losses                                 2.8%       3.0%        4.1%       3.4%       1.9%
  Nonperforming assets                                        3.1        4.4         1.5        1.1         .8
  Accruing loans past due 90 days or more                      .0         .0         1.5        1.5         .6
  Total loans 30 days or more delinquent:
    New methodology(2)                                        4.3        6.5         5.9        5.5
    Prior methodology                                                                           5.3(3)     2.8
Net charge-offs:
  Amount                                                  $27,547    $53,109    $151,222    $70,576    $42,549
  As a percentage of average gross receivables:
    New methodology(2)                                        2.4%       3.7%        5.7%       2.3%
    Prior methodology                                                                           2.5(3)     2.3%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ADVANTA MORTGAGE LOANS -- OWNED
Allowance for credit losses                               $21,743    $20,092    $  5,822    $ 8,785    $ 3,360
Nonperforming assets                                       36,709     38,734      23,234     13,005     18,676
Total loans 30 days or more delinquent                     45,263     56,131      42,916     28,546     20,348
As a percentage of gross receivables:
  Allowance for credit losses                                 2.1%       2.4%        1.2%       2.3%       1.0%
  Nonperforming assets                                        3.5        4.6         4.9        3.5        5.8
  Total loans 30 days or more delinquent                      4.3        6.7         9.0        7.6        6.3
Net charge-offs -- Mortgage:
  Amount                                                  $ 8,389    $ 3,658    $  2,310    $ 3,049    $ 5,962
  As a percentage of average gross receivables                1.1%        .5%         .4%       1.3%       3.2%
Net charge-offs -- Auto:
  Amount                                                  $ 3,732    $ 7,648    $  3,524    $    10        N/A
  As a percentage of average gross receivables               25.6%      16.1%        5.8%        .1%       N/A
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BUSINESS CARDS -- OWNED
Allowance for credit losses                               $14,663    $ 6,916    $  6,899    $ 2,643        N/A
Nonperforming assets                                        6,408      7,481       4,696      1,591        N/A
Total loans 30 days or more delinquent                     10,347      7,207       7,918      1,584        N/A
As a percentage of gross receivables:
  Allowance for credit losses                                 5.3%       4.6%        4.9%       3.7%       N/A
  Nonperforming assets                                        2.3        5.0         3.3        2.2        N/A
  Total loans 30 days or more delinquent                      3.8        4.8         5.6        2.2        N/A
Net charge-offs -- Business Cards:
  Amount                                                  $10,103    $10,033    $  6,198    $ 2,169        N/A
  As a percentage of average gross receivables                4.8%       6.9%        3.3%       2.5%       N/A
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LEASES -- OWNED
Allowance for credit losses                               $ 3,110    $ 2,695    $  2,899    $ 1,598    $ 1,577
Nonperforming assets                                        1,883      3,115       2,009      1,336        714
Total loans 30 days or more delinquent                      5,996      9,739       9,881      7,878      4,350
As a percentage of gross receivables:
  Allowance for credit losses                                 2.3%       2.2%        1.8%       1.1%       1.7%
  Nonperforming assets                                        1.4        2.5         1.3        0.9        0.8
  Total loans 30 days or more delinquent                      4.5        7.9         6.2        5.6        4.6
Net charge-offs -- Leases:
  Amount                                                  $ 2,926    $ 3,491    $  2,170    $   833    $ 1,139
  As a percentage of average gross receivables                2.7%       3.4%        2.1%        .8%       1.4%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) Includes consumer credit cards through February 20, 1998.
(2) Beginning in 1996, charge-off rates reflect the adoption of a new consumer
    credit card charge-off methodology. This new policy related to consumer
    credit card bankruptcies and provided up to a 90 day investigative period
    following notification of the bankruptcy petition prior to charge-off.
(3) Pro forma calculation reflecting charge-off of all credit card bankruptcies
    within 30 days of notification.

                                       37
<PAGE>   39

UNUSUAL CHARGES

EMPLOYEE COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH STAFF REDUCTIONS

In the first quarter of 1999, we recorded a $3.3 million charge for costs
associated with staff reductions. These expenses included severance and
outplacement costs associated with cost reduction initiatives and the
consolidation of support functions. There were 121 employees severed who were
entitled to benefits. This staff reduction was substantially complete by June
30, 1999.

EMPLOYEE COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH CONSUMER CREDIT CARD TRANSACTION/TENDER OFFER

In 1998, we accelerated vesting of 43.15% of outstanding options that were not
vested at the time of the closing of the Consumer Credit Card Transaction. In
connection with the Tender Offer (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements), present and former directors and employees who held exercisable
options to purchase Class A and Class B Common Stock tendered these options in
lieu of first exercising the options and tendering the underlying stock. We used
approximately $850 million, before taking into account the exercise price of
options, to repurchase the shares in the Tender Offer. In addition, we also
amended the terms of options granted to employees who became employees of Fleet
LLC or whose employment with us was otherwise terminated in connection with the
Consumer Credit Card Transaction (the "Affected Employees") to extend the
post-employment exercise period. Although there was a charge to earnings
associated with this amendment, there was no net impact to capital as a result
of this amendment. We also canceled options issued to certain members of the
Board of Directors and replaced the canceled options with stock appreciation
rights.

     In March 1997, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
approved the Advanta Senior Management Change of Control Severance Plan which
provides benefits to senior management employees in the event of a change of
control of Advanta if, within one year of the date of a change of control, there
has been either an actual or constructive termination of the senior management
employee. In February 1998, pursuant to our agreement with Fleet, the
Compensation Committee approved an amendment to the management severance plan
that allows the Office of the Chairman, in its sole discretion, to extend the
level of benefits that would otherwise be allowed in the event of a change of
control to Affected Employees. The Board of Directors also authorized the
Chairman of the Board, in his sole discretion, to pay bonuses to certain key
employees in recognition of their efforts on behalf of Advanta in the strategic
alternatives process. In accordance with our agreement with Fleet, Fleet LLC
agreed to assume Advanta's management severance plan and 50% of the bonus
payments with respect to those Affected Employees who became employees of Fleet
LLC in connection with the Consumer Credit Card Transaction. In May 1997, the
Board of Directors adopted the Office of the Chairman Supplemental Compensation
Program which entitled the members of the Office of the Chairman to receive
benefits in the event of a change of control or other similar transaction. In
October 1997, we announced that the Chief Executive Officer of Advanta Corp. and
the Chief Executive Officer of the consumer credit card business unit were
leaving Advanta in connection with the Consumer Credit Card Transaction. These
benefits were all contingent upon the consummation of the Consumer Credit Card
Transaction and were recognized upon the closing of the transaction.

     In connection with our evaluation of strategic alternatives and the
Consumer Credit Card Transaction, we adopted special retention programs. Under
these programs, certain employees were entitled to receive special payments
based on their targeted bonuses and contingent upon their continued employment
with Advanta or a successor entity. The first payments under the special
retention programs were made in March 1998. Further, in March 1998, we
identified employees that would be terminated in connection with the Consumer
Credit Card Transaction as part of the corporate restructuring to reduce
corporate expenses. During the first quarter of 1998, the Board of Directors
approved the corporate restructuring and affected employees were informed of the
termination benefits they would receive. Substantially all of these employees
ceased employment with Advanta before April 30, 1998.

     We recorded a $62.3 million pretax charge to earnings in connection with
the foregoing plans, plan amendments and workforce reduction activities in 1998.

                                       38
<PAGE>   40

EXPENSE ASSOCIATED WITH EXITED BUSINESSES/PRODUCTS

In the first quarter of 1999, we implemented a plan to cease the origination of
auto loans and recorded a $3.4 million charge for costs associated with exited
businesses/products. The charges included severance and outplacement costs for
22 employees in the auto origination group, and professional fees associated
with exited businesses/products not directly associated with our mortgage,
business card and leasing units. We completed the closing of the auto loan
origination center and termination of related employees during the second
quarter of 1999. We expect to pay a substantial portion of the remaining costs
during the year ended December 31, 2000.

     In connection with our efforts to reduce expenses associated with business
and product offerings which are not directly associated with our mortgage,
business card and leasing units, management approved exit and disposition plans
during the first quarter of 1998 related to certain businesses and products
previously offered. We recorded charges in the quarter ended March 31, 1998
related to costs to be incurred by us in executing these plans, including
contractual obligations to customers for which no future revenue will be
received, and contractual vendor obligations for services from which no future
benefit will be derived. The charges also include termination benefits to
employees associated with the businesses and products identified in the exit
plan. Related to the exit plan, certain assets were identified for disposal and
written down to estimated realizable value. In addition, we recognized
investment banking, professional and consulting fees that were contingent upon
completion of the Consumer Credit Card Transaction as well as other professional
and consulting fees associated with our corporate restructuring. During the
quarter ended March 31, 1998, we recorded a $54.1 million pretax charge to
earnings in connection with these exit plans. In 1999, an additional charge of
$10.0 million was recorded associated with exited products based on a change in
the estimate of total expected costs. We expect to pay a substantial portion of
these costs over the next 36 months. The actions required to complete these
plans include the settlement of contractual commitments and the payment of
customer benefits.

ASSET IMPAIRMENT/DISPOSAL

In connection with Advanta's plans to reduce corporate expenses and exit certain
business and product offerings, certain assets were identified for disposal and
their carrying costs were written off or written down to estimated realizable
value in 1998 resulting in a charge of $8.7 million. These assets consisted
principally of leasehold improvements and various other assets. The disposal of
these assets has been completed.

INCOME TAXES

The gain on the Consumer Credit Card Transaction in 1998 was not subject to
income tax and no tax provision was recorded. The Consumer Credit Card
Transaction also resulted in additional book/tax differences, which were
quantified during 1999 in connection with the filing of the 1998 tax return.
These book/tax differences, when combined with certain less significant
recurring differences, have resulted in net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $521 million. This amount is net of $96 million carried back to
prior years, and includes $500 million that pertains to losses incurred on the
consumer credit card portfolio after the date of the Consumer Credit Card
Transaction. Of the total net operating loss carryforwards, $502 million expire
in 2018 and $19 million expire in 2019. A deferred tax asset of $50 million, net
of valuation allowance, resulting from the net operating loss carryforwards was
recorded as an income tax benefit in the fourth quarter of 1999.

     In establishing the valuation allowance of $83 million, management
considered (1) the level of expected future taxable income, (2) existing and
projected book/tax differences, (3) tax planning strategies available, and (4)
the general and industry-specific economic outlook. Based on this analysis,
management believes the net deferred tax asset will be realized.

     In 1998, we recorded a consolidated income tax benefit of approximately
$9.0 million, as a result of the federal tax treatment of the contribution of
assets associated with the Consumer Credit Card Transaction. Our consolidated
income tax expense was $24.9 million in 1997, or an effective tax rate of 26%.

                                       39
<PAGE>   41

ASSET/LIABILITY MANAGEMENT

We manage our financial condition with a focus on maintaining high credit
quality standards, disciplined management of market risks and prudent levels of
leverage and liquidity.

MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY

Market risk is the potential for loss or diminished financial performance
arising from adverse changes in market forces including interest rates and
market prices. Market risk sensitivity is the degree to which a financial
instrument, or a company that owns financial instruments, is exposed to market
forces. We regularly evaluate our market risk profile and attempt to minimize
the impact of market risks on net interest income and net income.

     Our exposure to equity price risk is immaterial relative to expected
overall financial performance. Fluctuations in interest rates, changes in
economic conditions, shifts in customer behavior, and other factors can,
however, affect our financial performance. Changes in economic conditions and
shifts in customer behavior are difficult to predict, and our financial
performance generally cannot be insulated from these forces.

     Financial performance variability as a result of fluctuations in interest
rates is commonly called interest rate risk. Interest rate risk generally
results from mismatches in the timing of asset and liability repricing (gap
risk) and from differences between the repricing indices of assets and
liabilities (basis risk).

     We attempt to analyze the impact of interest rate risk by regularly
evaluating the perceived risks inherent in our asset and liability structure,
including securitized instruments and off-balance sheet instruments. Risk
exposure levels vary continuously, as changes occur in our asset/liability mix,
market interest rates, prepayment trends, and other factors affecting the timing
and magnitude of cash flows. Computer simulations are used to generate expected
financial performance in a variety of interest rate environments. Those results
are analyzed to determine if actions need to be taken to mitigate our interest
rate risk.

     In managing interest rate risk exposure, we periodically securitize
receivables, sell and purchase assets, alter the mix and term structure of our
funding base, change our investment portfolio and use derivative financial
instruments. Derivative instruments, by Company policy, are not used for
speculative purposes. See discussion in Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

     We measure our interest rate risk using a rising rate scenario and a
declining rate scenario. Net interest income is estimated using a third party
software model that uses standard income modeling techniques. We estimate that
at December 31, 1999, our net interest income over a twelve month period would
increase or decrease by approximately 2.4%, if interest rates were to fall or
rise by 200 basis points. This compares to an estimate as of December 31, 1998,
of an increase or decrease of 5.0%, if interest rates were to rise or fall by
200 basis points. This change is due to various balance sheet composition
changes including the purchase of fixed rate investments, growth in fixed rate
on-balance sheet loans, and the use of interest rate swaps to convert fixed rate
deposits to a variable rate. Both increasing and decreasing rate scenarios
assume an instantaneous shift in rates and measure the corresponding change in
expected net interest income over one year.

     The above estimates of net interest income sensitivity alone do not provide
a comprehensive view of our exposure to interest rate risk. The quantitative
risk information is limited by the parameters and assumptions utilized in
generating the results. These analyses are useful only when viewed within the
context of the parameters and assumptions used. The above rate scenarios in no
way reflect management's expectation regarding the future direction of interest
rates, and they depict only two possibilities out of a large set of possible
scenarios.

     In addition to interest rate risk, we are also subject to prepayment risk
related to other financial instruments, namely servicing rights and retained
interest-only strips. Prepayments are principal payments received in excess of
scheduled principal payments. Prepayments generally result from entire loan
payoffs due largely to refinancing a loan or selling a home. Actual or
anticipated prepayment rates are expressed in terms of a constant prepayment
rate, which represents the annual percentage of beginning loan balances that
prepay. To a degree, prepayment rates are related to market interest rates and
changes in those interest rates. The

                                       40
<PAGE>   42

relationship between them, however, is not precisely determinable. Accordingly,
we believe it is more relevant to disclose the fair value sensitivity of these
instruments based on changes in prepayment rate assumptions rather than based on
changes in interest rates.

     Our servicing rights and interest-only strips are derived from both fixed
and variable rate loans, the majority of which are fixed. Fixed and variable
rate loans are currently prepaying at different rates, which is expected to
continue in the future. We have estimated the impact on the fair value of these
assets assuming a 2.5% change in constant prepayment rate for fixed rate loans
and 3.7% change in constant prepayment rate for variable rate loans. We have
estimated that these changes in prepayment assumptions could result in a $30
million change in the combined fair value of these assets as of December 31,
1999. This compares to an estimate of a $32 million change as of December 31,
1998, assuming a 2.9% change in constant prepayment rate for fixed rate loans
and 3.8% change in constant prepayment rate for variable rate loans. These
estimates do not factor in the impact of changes in the interest rate
environment associated with the changes in the prepayment rates. Changes in
interest rates generally affect the level of loan originations. Prepayment
assumptions are not the only assumptions in the fair value calculation for these
assets, but they are the most influential. Other key assumptions are not
directly impacted by market forces as defined earlier. The above prepayment
scenarios do not reflect management's expectation regarding the future direction
of prepayments, and they depict only two possibilities out of a large set of
possible scenarios.

DERIVATIVES ACTIVITIES

We have a number of mechanisms in place that enable us to monitor and control
both market and credit risk from our derivatives activities. At the broader
level, all derivatives strategies are managed under a hedging policy approved by
the Board of Directors that details the use of derivatives and the individuals
authorized to execute derivatives transactions. Our senior management must
approve all derivatives strategies. As part of this approval process, we
complete a market risk analysis to determine the potential impact that would
result from severe negative (i.e., stressed) movements in market rates. By
policy, derivatives transactions may only be used to manage our exposure to
interest rate risk or for cost reduction and may not be used for speculative
purposes. The impact of any derivatives transaction is calculated using our
asset/liability model to determine its suitability.

     For each counterparty, the total credit exposure amount is calculated by
aggregating credit exposure from all derivatives and other capital market
transactions with that counterparty. The amount of exposure that we are willing
to accept from any single counterparty is based on that counterparty's credit
rating and is determined as a percentage of our equity. To manage counterparty
exposure, we also use negotiated agreements that establish threshold exposure
amounts for each counterparty above which we have the right to call for and
receive collateral for the amount of the excess, thereby limiting our exposure
to the threshold amount. The threshold levels can be fixed or may change as the
credit rating of the counterparty changes, and in all cases, the threshold
levels are well below the maximum allowable exposure amounts described above.
Similarly, under the terms of the negotiated agreements, counterparties have the
right to call for and receive collateral from us for the amount of the excess of
their credit exposure to us over applicable threshold levels. To date,
substantially all agreements with counterparties have included bilateral
collateral agreements.

     We have a treasury middle office that is independent of the trading
function, which measures, monitors, and reports on credit, market, and liquidity
risk exposures from capital markets, hedging and derivative product activities.
The department is responsible for ensuring compliance with our hedging policy,
including the counterparty transaction limits, transaction terms and trader
authorizations. In addition, this department marks each derivatives position to
market on a weekly basis using both internal and external models. These models
have been benchmarked against a sample of derivatives dealers' valuation models
for accuracy. Position and counterparty exposure reports are generated and used
to manage collateral requirements of the counterparty and Advanta.

     All of these procedures and processes are designed to provide reasonable
assurance that, before and after the execution of any derivatives strategy,
market, credit and liquidity risks are fully analyzed and incorporated into
Advanta's asset/liability and risk measurement models.

                                       41
<PAGE>   43

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS
No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS
No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that every
derivative instrument, including certain derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts, be recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset or
liability measured at its fair value. SFAS No. 133 requires that changes in the
derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific
hedge accounting criteria are met. SFAS No. 133, as amended by SFAS No. 137,
cannot be applied retroactively and will be adopted as required January 1, 2001.
We anticipate that the adoption of SFAS No. 133 will not have a material effect
on the results of operations; however, we continue to monitor potential changes
and implementation guidance to this new accounting standard.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Our goal is to maintain an adequate level of liquidity, for both long-term and
short-term needs, through active management of both assets and liabilities.
During the year ended December 31, 1999, we securitized or sold approximately
$2.3 billion of Advanta Mortgage loans, $414 million of leases and $319 million
of business card receivables. We temporarily invested cash generated from these
transactions in short-term, high quality investments at money market rates
pending redeployment to pay down borrowings and to fund future mortgage loan,
business card and lease receivable growth. At December 31, 1999, we had $145
million of federal funds sold, $711 million of loan and lease receivables held
for sale, and $354 million of investments which could be sold to generate
additional liquidity. Equity, including capital securities, was $690 million at
December 31, 1999.

     Our funding strategy relies on cash, cash equivalents and investments as
well as deposit gathering activity at Advanta National Bank and Advanta Bank
Corp. (together, the "banks") and securitizations. Advanta and the banks use
both retail and institutional on-balance sheet funding sources and have the
ability to issue a variety of debt and deposit products. As of December 31,
1999, Advanta National Bank's total deposits were $1.3 billion and Advanta Bank
Corp.'s total deposits were $257 million.

     After paying down $365 million in long-term debt for the year ended
December 31, 1999, we had unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities in excess of $350 million at the parent company level on December 31,
1999. At December 31, 1999, the parent company's assets include advances to
wholly-owned non-bank subsidiaries to fund $224.9 million in loans, $29.9
million in retained interest-only strips and contractual mortgage servicing
rights, $209.4 million in subordinated trust assets, and $34.4 million of equity
securities accounted for at fair value. Total parent company advances to
non-bank subsidiaries to fund these assets of $498.6 million at December 31,
1999 have decreased by $111.6 million in comparison to advances at December 31,
1998.

     At December 31, 1999, we had a $500 million committed warehouse financing
facility and a $250 million committed commercial paper conduit facility both
secured by mortgage loans. At December 31, 1999, we had additional uncommitted
warehouse financing facilities secured by mortgage loans of $550 million. At
December 31, 1999, we had $730 million of committed commercial paper facilities
secured by business credit card receivables and a $360 million committed
commercial paper facility secured by lease contracts and lease residuals. At
December 31, 1999, we had available $1.2 billion in unused warehouse financing
facilities and commercial paper conduit facilities. We also offer unsecured debt
of Advanta Corp. to retail investors through the Advanta Retail Note Program. In
addition, notwithstanding our current liquidity, efforts continue to develop new
sources of funding, both through previously untapped customer segments and
through development of new financing structures.

     At December 31, 1999, Advanta National Bank's combined total capital ratio
(combined Tier I and Tier II capital) was 14.86%, and Advanta Bank Corp.'s
combined total capital ratio was 13.28%. At December 31, 1998, Advanta National
Bank's combined total capital ratio (combined Tier I and Tier II capital) was
12.12% and Advanta Bank Corp.'s combined total capital ratio was 14.13%. In each
case, Advanta National Bank and Advanta Bank Corp. had capital levels that met
the definition of "well-capitalized" under the regulatory framework for prompt
corrective action. We intend to maintain capital ratios at both institutions in
order to be "well-capitalized" under current guidelines. Recently, an FDIC
discussion draft proposal has been made

                                       42
<PAGE>   44

public regarding capital requirements for subprime lenders. Under the proposal,
regulatory capital required to be held for certain loan classes included in the
institution's portfolio could be increased. The ultimate resolution of this
proposal and its impact on our financial results is uncertain at this time. This
is one of several regulatory and legislative initiatives and proposals that
could impact the manner in which we conduct our business and our financial
results. See "Part I -- Item 1. Business -- Legal Developments."

     Advanta National Bank and Advanta Bank Corp. are prevented by regulatory
restrictions from lending to Advanta Corp. and its affiliates unless these
extensions of credit are secured by U.S. Government obligations or other
specified collateral. Further, secured extensions of credit are limited in
amount: (a) as to Advanta Corp. or any affiliate, to 10 percent of each bank's
capital and surplus, and (b) as to Advanta Corp. and all affiliates in the
aggregate, to 20 percent of each bank's capital and surplus. Advanta National
Bank is also subject to various legal limitations on the amount of dividends
that can be paid to its parent, Advanta Corp. Advanta National Bank is eligible
to declare a dividend provided that it is not greater than the current year's
net profits plus net profits of the preceding two years. As a result of a $1.3
billion special dividend/return of capital in 1998, Advanta National Bank will
not be eligible to declare any dividends to Advanta Corp. without prior
regulatory approval until at least the first quarter of 2001. Our insurance
subsidiaries are also subject to certain capital, deposit and dividend rules and
regulations as prescribed by state jurisdictions in which they are authorized to
operate.

     Total stockholders' equity of our banking and insurance affiliates was $584
million at December 31, 1999, of which $524 million was restricted. At January
1, 2000, $60 million of stockholders' equity of our banking and insurance
affiliates was available for payment of dividends under applicable regulatory
guidelines.

     In addition to dividend restrictions at banking subsidiaries, certain
non-bank subsidiaries are subject to minimum equity requirements as part of
securitization agreements or financing facility agreements. The total minimum
equity requirement of non-bank subsidiaries was $35 million at December 31,
1999. Management believes that these restrictions, for both bank and non-bank
subsidiaries, will not have an adverse effect on the Advanta Corp.'s ability to
meet its cash obligations due to the current levels of liquidity and diversity
of funding sources.

     The following tables detail the composition of the deposit base and the
composition of debt and other borrowings at year end for each of the past five
years.

COMPOSITION OF DEPOSIT BASE

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
($ IN MILLIONS)                                               AS OF DECEMBER 31,
                              ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   1999             1998             1997             1996             1995
                              --------------   --------------   --------------   --------------   --------------
                               AMOUNT     %     AMOUNT     %     AMOUNT     %     AMOUNT     %     AMOUNT     %
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                           <C>        <C>   <C>        <C>   <C>        <C>   <C>        <C>   <C>        <C>
Demand deposits               $    5.8     0%  $    4.3     0%  $   41.6     1%  $   28.3     1%  $   91.7     5%
Money market savings             242.4    16      181.5    10      506.8    17      329.7    18      277.5    14
Time deposits of $100,000 or
  less                         1,046.6    69    1,445.8    83    2,163.0    72      978.6    53      965.5    51
Time deposits of more than
  $100,000                       217.6    15      118.2     7      306.2    10      523.5    28      571.9    30
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total deposits                $1,512.4   100%  $1,749.8   100%  $3,017.6   100%  $1,860.1   100%  $1,906.6   100%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                       43
<PAGE>   45

COMPOSITION OF DEBT AND OTHER BORROWINGS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
($ IN MILLIONS)                                               AS OF DECEMBER 31,
                              ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   1999             1998             1997             1996             1995
                              --------------   --------------   --------------   --------------   --------------
                               AMOUNT     %     AMOUNT     %     AMOUNT     %     AMOUNT     %     AMOUNT     %
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                           <C>        <C>   <C>        <C>   <C>        <C>   <C>        <C>   <C>        <C>
Subordinated notes and
  certificates                $    1.0     0%  $    1.5     0%  $   55.5     2%  $   71.1     3%  $   76.2     4%
Senior notes and
  certificates                   234.4    20      145.6    14      151.0     7      208.3     8      200.6    11
Short-term bank notes              0.0     0        0.0     0      242.0    11      309.3    13       25.0     1
Medium-term bank notes             7.3     0        7.3     1      669.5    29      835.6    34      322.7    18
5 1/8% notes, due 1996             0.0     0        0.0     0        0.0     0        0.0     0      150.0     8
Medium-term notes                538.0    45      866.5    81    1,099.5    48      880.8    36      504.7    28
Value notes                        7.8     1        9.3     1       30.7     1        0.0     0        0.0     0
Term fed funds, fed funds
  purchased and FHLB
  advances                       220.0    18        0.0     0        0.0     0       10.0     0      443.0    25
Securities sold under
  agreements to repurchase       104.2     9        0.0     0        0.0     0        0.0     0        0.0     0
Lines of credit and term
  funding arrangements            76.4     6       18.5     2        3.9     0       40.0     0        0.0     0
Other borrowings                   9.0     1       17.8     1       48.9     2      107.0     6       81.8     5
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total long-term debt and
  other borrowings            $1,198.1   100%  $1,066.5   100%  $2,301.0   100%  $2,462.1   100%  $1,804.0   100%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE

Computer programs that use only two digits to identify a year in the date field
could fail or create erroneous results on or after the year 2000. The "Year
2000" issue affects computer and information technology systems, as well as
non-information technology systems which include embedded technology such as
micro-processors and micro-controllers (or micro-chips) that have date sensitive
programs that may not properly recognize the Year 2000 or beyond. In order to
address this issue, we implemented a Year 2000 compliance program which
consisted of six phases: (1) awareness; (2) assessment; (3) renovation; (4)
validation; (5) contingency planning; and (6) implementation. We also identified
and evaluated compliance of our significant business relationships, including
without limitation vendors, customers and asset management and funding
counterparties, to assess the potential impact on our operations if those third
parties and/or their products or systems would have failed to become Year 2000
compliant in a timely manner. We completed all six phases of our internal and
external mission-critical systems as of September 30, 1999.

     We have not experienced significant problems or issues relating to the Year
2000 issue as of March 15, 2000. We incurred approximately $7.7 million in
operating expenses, exclusive of costs associated with diverted personnel, and
approximately $1.3 million in capital expenditures to address the Year 2000
issue. Funding for the project was provided out of operating revenues, and
operating expenses were expensed as incurred. These costs did not have a
material affect on our financial position or results of operations. We deferred
development on selected business systems due to Year 2000 priorities. These
deferrals are not expected to have a material effect on our financial condition
or results of operations.

                                       44
<PAGE>   46

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    DECEMBER 31,
($ IN THOUSANDS)                                              ------------------------
                                                                 1999          1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>
ASSETS
Cash                                                          $   29,301    $   16,267
Federal funds sold                                               144,938       267,400
Restricted interest-bearing deposits                              93,688        80,028
Trading investments                                                    0       501,563
Investments available for sale                                   748,881       521,410
Loan and lease receivables, net:
  Held for sale                                                  711,303       527,644
  Other                                                          738,321       579,783
                                                              ------------------------
Total loan and lease receivables, net                          1,449,624     1,107,427
Retained interest-only strip                                     115,641       209,096
Contractual mortgage servicing rights                             92,636        74,425
Subordinated trust assets                                        400,148       291,942
Premises and equipment (at cost, less accumulated
  depreciation
  of $54,613 in 1999 and $38,377 in 1998)                         89,869        84,396
Other assets                                                     524,936       567,466
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL ASSETS                                                  $3,689,662    $3,721,420
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LIABILITIES
Deposits:
  Noninterest-bearing                                         $    5,768    $    4,324
  Interest-bearing                                             1,506,591     1,745,466
                                                              ------------------------
Total deposits                                                 1,512,359     1,749,790
Long-term debt                                                   788,508     1,030,147
Other borrowings                                                 409,601        36,301
Other liabilities                                                289,563       244,878
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                              3,000,031     3,061,116
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred
  securities of subsidiary trust holding solely subordinated
  debentures of Advanta                                          100,000       100,000
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Class A preferred stock, $1,000 par value:
  Authorized, issued and outstanding -- 1,010 shares in 1999
     and 1998                                                      1,010         1,010
Class B preferred stock, $.01 par value:
  Issued -- 0 in 1999 and 14,211 shares in 1998                        0             0
Class A voting common stock, $.01 par value;
  Authorized -- 214,500,000 shares; Issued -- 10,465,883
     shares in 1999 and 10,375,489 shares in 1998                    105           104
Class B non-voting common stock, $.01 par value;
  Authorized -- 230,000,000 shares; Issued -- 18,256,029
     shares in 1999 and 16,294,825 shares in 1998                    182           163
Additional paid-in capital                                       232,585       229,304
Deferred compensation                                            (16,597)      (17,214)
Unearned ESOP shares                                             (12,132)      (12,550)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss                             (10,794)          (91)
Retained earnings                                                421,741       382,092
  Less: Treasury stock at cost, 405,000 Class A and 972,768
     Class B common shares in 1999 and 55,000 Class A and
     972,768 Class B common shares in 1998                       (26,469)      (22,514)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY                                       589,631       560,304
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY                    $3,689,662    $3,721,420
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       45
<PAGE>   47

CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)                           YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                          ------------------------------------
                                                            1999         1998          1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>         <C>           <C>
REVENUES:
Interest income                                           $246,226    $  245,340    $  436,860
Securitization income                                      124,514       162,358       106,005
Servicing revenues                                         119,300       130,112       249,293
Consumer credit card securitization income                       0        64,796       252,631
Gain on transfer of consumer credit card business                0       541,288             0
Other revenues, net                                         82,483        60,126       217,966
                                                          ------------------------------------
  Total revenues                                           572,523     1,204,020     1,262,755
                                                          ------------------------------------
EXPENSES:
Operating expenses                                         337,061       379,764       621,961
Interest expense                                           167,676       184,275       324,558
Provision for credit losses                                 42,647        67,193       210,826
Minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiary       8,880         8,880         8,880
Unusual charges                                             16,713       125,072             0
                                                          ------------------------------------
  Total expenses                                           572,977       765,184     1,166,225
                                                          ------------------------------------
Income (loss) before income taxes                             (454)      438,836        96,530
Income tax (benefit) expense                               (50,272)       (9,044)       24,905
                                                          ------------------------------------
  Net income                                              $ 49,818    $  447,880    $   71,625
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Basic earnings per share
  Class A                                                 $   1.95    $    16.62    $     1.45
  Class B                                                     2.02         16.68          1.57
  Combined                                                    1.99         16.65          1.52
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diluted earnings per share
  Class A                                                 $   1.93    $    15.69    $     1.43
  Class B                                                     1.99         15.73          1.54
  Combined                                                    1.96         15.71          1.50
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Basic weighted average shares outstanding
  Class A                                                    9,057        11,174        18,172
  Class B                                                   14,515        15,500        24,635
  Combined                                                  23,572        26,674        42,807
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diluted weighted average shares outstanding
  Class A                                                    9,094        11,182        18,235
  Class B                                                   14,835        17,313        25,266
  Combined                                                  23,929        28,495        43,501
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash dividends declared
  Class A                                                 $  0.252    $    0.252    $    0.440
  Class B                                                    0.302         0.302         0.528
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       46
<PAGE>   48

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

($ IN THOUSANDS)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                               DEFERRED
                                                     CLASS A     CLASS B    CLASS A   CLASS B   ADDITIONAL   COMPENSATION
                                    COMPREHENSIVE   PREFERRED   PREFERRED   COMMON    COMMON     PAID-IN      & UNEARNED
                                       INCOME         STOCK       STOCK      STOCK     STOCK     CAPITAL     ESOP SHARES
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>             <C>         <C>         <C>       <C>       <C>          <C>
Balance at Dec. 31, 1996                             $1,010        $0        $179      $ 256    $ 350,479      $(41,229)
Net income                            $ 71,625
Other comprehensive income (loss):
 Foreign currency translation
   adjustment net of tax benefit
   (expense) of ($289)                     536
 Change in unrealized appreciation
   (depreciation) of investments,
   net of tax benefit (expense) of
   ($251)                                  466
                                      --------
Comprehensive income                  $ 72,627
                                      ========
Preferred and common cash
 dividends declared
Exercise of stock options                                                       3          6        8,468
Issuance of stock --
 Dividend reinvestment                                                                                857
 Benefit plans                                                                             4       14,524       (11,159)
Amortization of deferred
 compensation                                                                                                    11,343
Termination benefit --
 Benefit plans                                                                                      5,215        15,692
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at Dec. 31, 1997                             $1,010        $0        $182      $ 266    $ 379,543      $(25,353)
Net income                            $447,880
Other comprehensive income (loss):
 Foreign currency translation
   adjustment net of tax benefit
   (expense) of $109                      (202)
 Change in unrealized appreciation
   (depreciation) of investments,
   net of tax benefit (expense) of
   ($33)                                    61
                                      --------
Comprehensive income                  $447,739
                                      ========
Tender Offer                                                                  (79)      (113)    (160,861)
Preferred and common cash
 dividends declared
Exercise of stock options                                                       1          2        3,102
Issuance of stock -- Dividend
 reinvestment                                                                                          89
 Benefit plans                                                                            13       22,647       (20,605)
Amortization of deferred
 compensation                                                                                                     8,193
Termination benefit --
 Benefit plans                                                                            (5)     (15,214)       20,551
Stock buyback
ESOP stock purchase                                                                                             (12,569)
ESOP shares committed to be
 released                                                                                              (2)           19
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at Dec. 31, 1998                             $1,010        $0        $104      $ 163    $ 229,304      $(29,764)
Net income                            $ 49,818
Other comprehensive income (loss):
 Change in unrealized appreciation
   (depreciation) of investments,
   net of tax benefit (expense) of
   $5,763                              (10,703)
                                      --------
Comprehensive income                  $ 39,115
                                      ========
Conversion of Class B Preferred
 Stock                                                                                    14          (14)
Preferred and common cash
 dividends declared
Exercise of stock options                                                                              20
Issuance of stock --
 Benefit plans                                                                  1          9       10,579       (10,589)
Amortization of deferred
 compensation                                                                                                     3,781
Termination benefit --
 Benefit plans                                                                            (4)      (7,421)        7,425
Stock buyback
ESOP shares committed to be
 released                                                                                             117           418
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at Dec. 31, 1999                             $1,010        $0        $105      $ 182    $ 232,585      $(28,729)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<CAPTION>
                                    ----------------------------------------------------
                                     ACCUMULATED
                                        OTHER                                  TOTAL
                                    COMPREHENSIVE   RETAINED    TREASURY   STOCKHOLDERS'
                                    INCOME (LOSS)   EARNINGS     STOCK        EQUITY
- ----------------------------------  ----------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>             <C>         <C>        <C>
Balance at Dec. 31, 1996              $   (952)     $ 542,335   $    (42)    $ 852,036
Net income                                             71,625                   71,625
Other comprehensive income (loss):
 Foreign currency translation
   adjustment net of tax benefit
   (expense) of ($289)                     536                                     536
 Change in unrealized appreciation
   (depreciation) of investments,
   net of tax benefit (expense) of
   ($251)                                  466                                     466
Comprehensive income
Preferred and common cash
 dividends declared                                   (28,301)                 (28,301)
Exercise of stock options                                                        8,477
Issuance of stock --
 Dividend reinvestment                                                             857
 Benefit plans                                                     1,297         4,666
Amortization of deferred
 compensation                                                                   11,343
Termination benefit --
 Benefit plans                                                   (15,662)        5,245
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at Dec. 31, 1997              $     50      $ 585,659   $(14,407)    $ 926,950
Net income                                            447,880                  447,880
Other comprehensive income (loss):
 Foreign currency translation
   adjustment net of tax benefit
   (expense) of $109                      (202)                                   (202)
 Change in unrealized appreciation
   (depreciation) of investments,
   net of tax benefit (expense) of
   ($33)                                    61                                      61
Comprehensive income
Tender Offer                                         (640,553)                (801,606)
Preferred and common cash
 dividends declared                                   (10,894)                 (10,894)
Exercise of stock options                                                        3,105
Issuance of stock -- Dividend
 reinvestment                                                                       89
 Benefit plans                                                                   2,055
Amortization of deferred
 compensation                                                                    8,193
Termination benefit --
 Benefit plans                                                    (3,558)        1,774
Stock buyback                                                     (4,549)       (4,549)
ESOP stock purchase                                                            (12,569)
ESOP shares committed to be
 released                                                                           17
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at Dec. 31, 1998              $    (91)     $ 382,092   $(22,514)    $ 560,304
Net income                                             49,818                   49,818
Other comprehensive income (loss):
 Change in unrealized appreciation
   (depreciation) of investments,
   net of tax benefit (expense) of
   $5,763                              (10,703)                                (10,703)
Comprehensive income
Conversion of Class B Preferred
 Stock                                                                               0
Preferred and common cash
 dividends declared                                   (10,169)                 (10,169)
Exercise of stock options                                                           20
Issuance of stock --
 Benefit plans                                                                       0
Amortization of deferred
 compensation                                                                    3,781
Termination benefit --
 Benefit plans                                                                       0
Stock buyback                                                     (3,955)       (3,955)
ESOP shares committed to be
 released                                                                          535
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at Dec. 31, 1999              $(10,794)     $ 421,741   $(26,469)    $ 589,631
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       47
<PAGE>   49

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                      ($ IN THOUSANDS)                                  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              --------------------------------------------
                                                                  1999            1998            1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>             <C>             <C>
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net income                                                    $     49,818    $    447,880    $     71,625
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
  operating activities:
    Equity securities (gains) losses                               (30,391)         41,750          11,426
    Noncash charges associated with exit of auto finance
      business                                                      16,900               0               0
    Depreciation and amortization                                   18,507          21,480          35,280
    Provision for credit losses, excluding auto                     37,747          67,193         210,826
    Gain on transfer of consumer credit card business                    0        (541,288)              0
    Noncash expense associated with unusual charges                      0          25,539               0
    Investment in subordinated trust assets, net                  (112,378)       (113,473)        (95,237)
    Proceeds from sale of trading investments                      185,042         293,413               0
    Origination of loans and leases held for sale               (3,077,544)     (5,772,116)     (4,285,632)
    Proceeds from sale of loans and leases held for sale         3,138,290       5,760,090       4,309,218
    Change in other assets and other liabilities                   (55,585)       (186,317)         68,371
    Change in retained interest-only strip, excluding auto
      charge                                                        85,627         (25,790)        (53,603)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by operating activities                          256,033          18,361         272,274
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INVESTING ACTIVITIES
    Change in federal funds sold and interest-bearing
      deposits                                                     108,802         (25,675)          4,541
    Purchase of investments available for sale                 (12,872,622)    (44,610,758)    (46,510,251)
    Proceeds from sales of investments available for sale          812,821       1,707,418       1,736,050
    Proceeds from maturing investments available for sale       12,171,704      43,591,658      44,263,776
    Purchase of loan and lease portfolios                                0         (38,190)       (141,687)
    Principal collected on Advanta Mortgage loans and leases
      not held for sale                                            177,530         211,444         116,390
    Origination of Advanta Mortgage loans and leases not
      held for sale                                               (478,805)       (498,935)       (156,115)
    Change in business card receivables and other loans not
      held for sale, excluding sales                               (18,872)         17,974        (113,099)
    Change in consumer credit card receivables not held for
      sale, excluding sales/transfers                                    0        (121,845)       (571,215)
    Purchases of premises and equipment, net                       (23,683)        (41,795)        (79,003)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities               (123,125)        191,296      (1,450,613)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FINANCING ACTIVITIES
    Change in demand and savings deposits                           62,329          70,415         190,493
    Proceeds from sales of time deposits                           600,747       1,762,747       1,934,081
    Payments for maturing time deposits                           (900,507)       (500,447)       (967,021)
    Change in repurchase agreements, term fed funds and FHLB
      advances                                                     324,191          38,195         (10,000)
    Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt                       123,537          29,857         536,004
    Payments on redemption of long-term debt                      (365,176)       (781,051)       (536,827)
    Change in other borrowings                                      49,109         (16,473)        (92,229)
    Tender Offer                                                         0        (801,606)              0
    Stock buyback                                                   (3,955)         (4,549)              0
    ESOP stock purchase                                                  0         (12,569)              0
    Proceeds from issuance of stock                                     20           5,249          14,000
    Cash dividends paid                                            (10,169)        (10,894)        (28,301)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities               (119,874)       (221,126)      1,040,200
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net increase (decrease) in cash                                     13,034         (11,469)       (138,139)
Cash at beginning of period                                         16,267          27,736         165,875
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash at end of period                                         $     29,301    $     16,267    $     27,736
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       48
<PAGE>   50

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         ($ IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA, UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED)

NOTE 1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

NATURE OF OPERATIONS

Advanta Corp., a Delaware corporation, (collectively with its subsidiaries,
"Advanta") is a financial services company that provides consumers and small
businesses throughout the country with a variety of financial products including
mortgages, business credit cards, equipment leases, insurance and deposit
products. Advanta services approximately 680,000 customers and manages
receivables of approximately $10.2 billion. Advanta also services mortgage loans
for third parties (referred to as "subservicing" or "contract servicing"). Prior
to February 20, 1998, Advanta issued consumer credit cards.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND CONSOLIDATION

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and include the accounts of Advanta
Corp. and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain prior period amounts
have been reclassified to conform with the current year's presentation.

USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
Estimates are used when accounting for securitization income, retained
interest-only strips, contractual mortgage servicing rights, the fair value of
certain financial instruments, the allowance for credit losses, and income
taxes, among others. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

INVESTMENTS

Trading investments are securities that are bought and held principally for the
purpose of selling them in the near term. Trading investments are reported at
fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in earnings. Investments
available for sale include securities that Advanta sells from time to time to
provide liquidity and in response to changes in the market. Debt and equity
securities classified as available for sale are reported at market value and
unrealized gains and losses on these securities are reported in other
comprehensive income, net of income taxes.

     Investments of Advanta's venture capital unit, Advanta Partners, are
included in investments available for sale and carried at estimated fair value
following the specialized industry accounting principles of this unit.
Management makes fair value determinations based on quoted market prices, when
available, and considers the investees' financial results, conditions and
prospects when market prices are not available. The equity method of accounting
for investments is not applied in accordance with venture capital accounting
principles.

     Purchase premiums and discounts are recognized in interest income using the
interest method over the terms of the securities. Gains and losses on the sale
of securities are recorded on the trade date and are determined using the
specific identification method.

LOAN AND LEASE RECEIVABLES HELD FOR SALE

Loan and lease receivables held for sale represent receivables currently on the
balance sheet that Advanta intends to sell or securitize within the next six
months. These assets are reported at the lower of aggregate cost or fair market
value by loan type. Net unrealized losses, if any, are recognized through a
valuation allowance by charges to income.

                                       49
<PAGE>   51
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES

The allowance for credit losses is established as losses are estimated to have
occurred through a provision for credit losses charged to earnings. The
allowance for loan losses is evaluated on a regular basis by management and is
based upon management's periodic review of the collectibility in light of
historical experience by loan type, the nature and volume of the loan and lease
portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower's ability to repay,
estimated value of any underlying collateral and prevailing economic conditions.
This evaluation is inherently subjective, as it requires estimates that are
susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available.

     Loan and lease losses are charged against the allowance when management
believes the uncollectibility of a loan balance is confirmed. Subsequent
recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. Advanta charges losses on
nonperforming Advanta Mortgage loans against the allowance generally at the
earlier of foreclosure or when they have become twelve months delinquent. Losses
on lease receivables are generally charged against the allowance when 121 days
contractually delinquent. Advanta's charge-off policy, as it relates to business
credit card accounts, is to charge-off a receivable, if not paid, at 180 days
contractually delinquent. Consumer credit card accounts, if not paid, were
charged-off at 186 days contractually delinquent. Credit card accounts suspected
of being fraudulent are charged-off after a 90-day investigative period, unless
the investigation shows no evidence of fraud.

     The accrual of interest is discontinued when the related receivable becomes
90 days past due. Interest income is subsequently recognized only to the extent
cash payments are received.

ORIGINATION COSTS AND FEES

Loan origination fees, net of certain direct origination costs, are deferred and
recognized as an adjustment of the related loan yield using a method which
approximates the level yield method. Upon the sale or securitization of Advanta
Mortgage loans or lease receivables, the unamortized portion of net fees or
costs is included in the computation of the gain on sale. Deferred origination
costs include costs of loan origination associated with transactions with
independent third parties and certain costs relating to direct sales and
underwriting activities and preparing and processing loan documents.

     Advanta engages third parties to solicit and originate credit card account
relationships. Amounts paid to third parties to acquire credit card accounts are
deferred and netted against any related credit card fee, and the net amount is
amortized on a straight-line basis over the privilege period of one year. Net
deferred costs on business card receivables were $8.1 million at December 31,
1999 and $2.1 million at December 31, 1998.

SECURITIZATION ACTIVITIES

Advanta, through its subsidiaries, sells mortgage loans, business cards and
leases through securitizations, typically with servicing retained. Prior to the
Consumer Credit Card Transaction in 1998, Advanta also securitized consumer
credit card receivables.

     The transfer of financial assets in which Advanta surrenders control over
those assets is accounted for as a sale to the extent that consideration other
than beneficial interests in the transferred assets is received in exchange.
Liabilities and derivatives incurred or obtained as part of a transfer of
financial assets are initially measured at fair value, if practicable. Advanta
allocates the previous carrying amount of the receivables securitized between
the assets sold and the retained interests, including the servicing
relationship, interests in the receivables, and an interest-only strip, based on
their relative estimated fair values at the date of sale. A gain is recognized
at the time of the sale, equal to the excess of the fair value of the assets
obtained (principally cash) over the allocated cost of the assets sold and
transaction costs. The retained interest-only strip represents the fair value of
the remaining interest to be collected from the borrowers on the underlying
loans after the payment of interest to the certificate holders and the payment
of a servicing fee to Advanta in its role as servicer reduced by the estimated
fair value of Advanta's obligation for anticipated charge-offs.

                                       50
<PAGE>   52
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     During the revolving period of each credit card securitization trust,
securitization income is recorded representing gains on the sale of new
receivables to the trusts on a continuous basis to replenish the investors'
interest in trust receivables that have been repaid by the credit card holders.

RETAINED INTEREST-ONLY STRIP

Retained interest-only strips are measured in accordance with the provisions of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities" ("SFAS 115"). Advanta accounts for
the retained interest-only strips from mortgage securitizations as trading
securities. These assets are recorded at estimated fair value and the resulting
unrealized gain or loss from the valuation of the receivable is included in the
results of operations for the period.

     Advanta estimates the fair value of retained interest-only strips based on
a discounted cash flow analysis. The cash flows are estimated as the excess of
the weighted average yield on each pool of the receivables sold over the sum of
the interest rate paid to the certificate holder plus the servicing fee, a
trustee fee, credit enhancement costs and an estimate of future credit losses
over the life of the receivables. Cash flows are discounted from the date the
cash is expected to become available to Advanta (the "cash-out" method). These
cash flows are projected over the life of the receivables using prepayment,
default, and interest rate assumptions that management believes would be used by
market participants for similar financial instruments subject to prepayment,
credit and interest rate risk. The cash flows are discounted using an interest
rate that management believes a purchaser unrelated to the seller of the
financial instrument would demand. See Note 23 for discussion of assumptions
used in the estimate of fair value at December 31, 1999 and 1998. As all
estimates used are influenced by factors outside Advanta's control, there is
uncertainty inherent in these estimates, making it reasonably possible that they
could change in the near term. Interest income is recognized over the life of
the retained interest-only strip using the discount rate used in the valuation.

SERVICING RIGHTS

Advanta allocates a portion of the book value of receivables securitized to the
retained servicing rights based on relative fair values. Management has
estimated the fair value of servicing rights based on a discounted cash flow
analysis. The cash flows are estimated as the excess of the benefits of
servicing, principally revenues from contractually specified servicing fees,
late charges, prepayment penalties and other ancillary sources, over adequate
market-based compensation. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 125,
"Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments
of Liabilities" ("SFAS 125") defines adequate compensation to include the profit
that would be demanded in the marketplace. Servicing rights are amortized in
proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net future servicing fee
income.

     Servicing assets associated with credit card securitization transactions
are not material as the benefits of servicing are not expected to be more or
less than adequate compensation to Advanta for performing the servicing.

     Advanta periodically evaluates the potential impairment of servicing
rights. Advanta stratifies these rights based on two of the predominant risk
characteristics of the underlying loans, the period of origination and the type
of loan (i.e., fixed or adjustable rate loan). Impairment is recognized through
a valuation allowance for each individual stratum. The amount of impairment
recognized is the amount by which the servicing rights for a stratum exceed
their estimated fair value. See Note 23 for discussion of assumptions used in
the estimate of fair value at December 31, 1999 and 1998.

SUBORDINATED TRUST ASSETS

Subordinated trust assets represent other retained interests in Advanta
Mortgage's securitizations. Ownership of these interests, together with the
related retained interest-only strip, is represented by the subordinate
certificates issued by the securitization trust. These certificates serve as a
form of credit enhancement for the transactions, and excess losses on the
collateral would be absorbed by these amounts. Subordinated trust assets

                                       51
<PAGE>   53
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

are allocated a variable rate, risk-adjusted return. These assets are classified
as trading securities and are carried at estimated fair value. In estimating
fair value, management considers the credit enhancement provided by the retained
interest-only strip.

PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT

Premises, equipment, computers and software are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is calculated using the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Repairs and
maintenance are charged to expense as incurred.

SECURITIES SOLD UNDER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS

Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are accounted for as secured
borrowings because Advanta maintains effective control over the transferred
assets. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are reflected at the
amount of cash received in connection with the transaction. Advanta may be
required to provide additional collateral based on the fair value of the
underlying securities.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Advanta uses various derivative financial instruments, including interest rate
swaps, interest rate caps, options and forward contracts, as part of its risk
management strategy to reduce interest rate risk. Derivatives are not used for
trading or speculative activities. Derivatives are classified as hedges or
synthetic alterations of specific on-balance sheet items, off-balance sheet
items or anticipated transactions. In order for derivatives to qualify for hedge
accounting treatment, the following conditions must be met:

     1) the underlying item being hedged must expose Advanta to interest rate
        risk;

     2) the derivative used serves to reduce Advanta's sensitivity to interest
        rate risk; and

     3) the derivative used is designated and deemed effective in hedging
        Advanta's exposure to interest rate risk.

In addition to meeting these conditions, anticipatory hedges must demonstrate
that the anticipated transaction being hedged is probable to occur and the
expected terms of the transaction are identifiable.

     Gains or losses on derivatives designated as hedges of balance sheet items
not carried at fair value are deferred and are ultimately recognized in income
as part of the carrying amount of the related balance sheet item exposing
Advanta to interest rate risk. Accrual accounting is applied for derivatives
designated as synthetic alterations with income and expense recorded in the same
category as the related underlying on-balance sheet or off-balance sheet item
synthetically altered. Gains or losses resulting from early terminations of
derivatives are deferred and amortized over the shorter of the remaining term of
the underlying balance sheet item or the remaining term of the derivative. If
the underlying balance sheet item is sold, matures or is extinguished, or the
anticipated transaction is no longer likely to occur, any unrecognized gain or
loss on the derivative is recognized currently in earnings.

     For derivatives designated as hedges of balance sheet items where changes
in fair value are recognized currently in earnings, the related derivative is
included in the balance sheet at fair value, and changes in the fair value of
the derivative are also recognized currently in earnings.

     Derivatives not qualifying for hedge or synthetic accounting treatment
would be carried at market value with realized and unrealized gains and losses
included in operating results. During 1999, 1998 and 1997, all of Advanta's
derivatives qualified as hedges or synthetic alterations. For purposes of
reporting cash flows, cash flows from derivatives accounted for as hedges or
synthetic alterations are classified in the same category as the item being
hedged.

                                       52
<PAGE>   54
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

INSURANCE

Insurance premiums are earned ratably over the period of insurance coverage
provided. Reinsurance premiums, net of commissions, on credit life, disability
and unemployment policies, are earned monthly based upon the outstanding balance
of the underlying receivables. The cost of acquiring new reinsurance is deferred
and amortized over the period the related premiums are earned in order to match
the expense with the anticipated revenue.

     Insurance loss reserves are based on estimated settlement amounts for both
reported losses and incurred but not reported losses.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

Advanta has elected to account for stock-based compensation following Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25 "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" as
permitted by SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" ("SFAS
123"). Advanta has adopted the disclosure-only provisions of SFAS 123.

INCOME TAXES

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined using the liability
(or balance sheet) method. Under this method, the net deferred tax asset or
liability is determined based on the tax effects of the temporary differences
between the book and tax bases of the various assets and liabilities and gives
current recognition to changes in tax rates and laws.

EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing income available to common
stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during
the period. Income available to common stockholders is computed by deducting
Class A and Class B Preferred Stock dividends from net income. Diluted earnings
per share is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders,
increased by dividends on dilutive Class B Preferred Stock for the period, by
the sum of average common shares outstanding plus dilutive common shares for the
period. Potentially dilutive common shares include stock options, restricted
stock issued under incentive plans and Class B Preferred Stock. Since the cash
dividends declared on Advanta's Class B Common Stock were higher than the
dividends declared on the Class A Common Stock, basic and diluted earnings per
share have been calculated using the "two-class" method. The two-class method is
an earnings allocation formula that determines earnings per share for each class
of common stock according to dividends declared and participation rights in
undistributed earnings. Advanta has also presented combined earnings per share,
which represents a weighted average of Class A and Class B earnings per share.

CASH FLOW REPORTING

Cash paid for interest was $161.0 million during 1999, $218.3 million during
1998, and $304.0 million during 1997. Cash paid (refunds received) for taxes was
$8.9 million during 1999, $28.2 million during 1998, and $(6.1) million during
1997. See Note 9 for discussion of noncash transfer of assets and liabilities in
the Consumer Credit Card Transaction. Noncash transactions in 1998 also included
the retention of $795 million of trust certificates at the time of receivable
securitization. These securities were classified as trading investments. In
1999, $315 million of these securities were reclassified from trading to
available-for-sale securities.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No.
133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS No.
133 establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that every
derivative instrument (including certain derivative instruments embedded in

                                       53
<PAGE>   55
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

other contracts) be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or
liability measured at its fair value. SFAS No. 133 requires that changes in the
derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific
hedge accounting criteria are met. SFAS No. 133, as amended by SFAS No. 137,
cannot be applied retroactively and will be adopted as required January 1, 2001.
Advanta anticipates that the adoption of SFAS No. 133 will not have a material
effect on the results of operations; however, Advanta continues to monitor
potential changes and implementation guidance to this new accounting standard.

     In October 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 134, "Accounting for
Mortgage-Backed Securities Retained after the Securitization of Mortgage Loans
Held for Sale by a Mortgage Banking Enterprise, an amendment of FASB Statement
No. 65." SFAS No. 134 amends SFAS No. 65 to require that after the
securitization of mortgage loans held for sale, an entity engaged in mortgage
banking activities classify the resulting mortgage-backed securities or other
retained interests based on its ability and intent to sell or hold those
investments. Before the issuance of SFAS No. 134, Advanta was required to
account for resulting mortgage-backed securities or other retained interests as
trading securities. SFAS No. 134 is effective for the first fiscal quarter
beginning after December 15, 1998. Advanta adopted SFAS No. 134 on January 1,
1999, and reclassified approximately $315 million of retained mortgage-backed
securities related to mortgage loan securitizations from trading to
available-for-sale securities based on Advanta's intent with respect to these
securities. Advanta continues to classify its retained interest-only strips and
subordinated trust assets from mortgage loan securitizations as trading
securities.

NOTE 2.  INVESTMENTS

Investments available for sale consisted of the following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       DECEMBER 31,
                       -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            1999                                             1998
                       ----------------------------------------------   ----------------------------------------------
                                     GROSS        GROSS                               GROSS        GROSS
                       AMORTIZED   UNREALIZED   UNREALIZED    MARKET    AMORTIZED   UNREALIZED   UNREALIZED    MARKET
                         COST        GAINS        LOSSES      VALUE       COST        GAINS        LOSSES      VALUE
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                    <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>        <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
U.S. Treasury & other
 U.S. Government
 securities            $145,112        $0        $ (4,668)   $140,444   $435,953       $178        $ (33)     $436,098
State and municipal
 securities               3,473         0             (85)      3,388      4,636        182            0         4,818
Collateralized
 mortgage obligations   456,288         0          (8,220)    448,068     12,278          0          (18)       12,260
Mortgage-backed
 securities              98,190         0          (3,634)     94,556      4,265          0         (203)        4,062
Equity securities(1)     60,892         0               0      60,892     61,006          0         (250)       60,756
Other                     1,531         2               0       1,533      3,411          5            0         3,416
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total investments
     available for
     sale              $765,486        $2        $(16,607)   $748,881   $521,549       $365        $(504)     $521,410
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<CAPTION>
                                             DECEMBER 31,
                          ---------------------------------------------------
                             1997                        1997
                          ----------     ------------------------------------
                                           GROSS        GROSS
                          AMORTIZED      UNREALIZED   UNREALIZED     MARKET
                             COST          GAINS        LOSSES       VALUE
- ---------------------    ------------    ------------------------------------
<S>                        <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>
U.S. Treasury & other
 U.S. Government
 securities                $1,083,848       $ 82        $(184)     $1,083,746
State and municipal
 securities                     5,195        123            0           5,318
Collateralized
 mortgage obligations          15,639          0         (151)         15,488
Mortgage-backed
 securities                    47,387        150            0          47,537
Equity securities(1)           69,092          0         (250)         68,842
Other                           1,344          0           (3)          1,341
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total investments
     available for
     sale                  $1,222,505       $355        $(588)     $1,222,272
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) Includes investments of the venture capital unit, Advanta Partners LP. The
    amount shown as amortized cost represents carrying value for these
    investments. See Note 1.

                                       54
<PAGE>   56
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Maturities of investments available for sale at December 31, 1999 were as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              AMORTIZED     MARKET
                                                                COST        VALUE
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
Due in 1 year                                                 $ 17,698     $ 17,662
Due after 1 but within 5 years                                 128,794      124,168
Due after 5 but within 10 years                                  1,140        1,093
Due after 10 years                                                 953          909
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Subtotal                                             148,585      143,832
Mortgage-backed securities                                      98,190       94,556
Collateralized mortgage obligations                            456,288      448,068
Equity and other securities                                     62,423       62,425
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total investments available for sale                $765,486     $748,881
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     Net realized gains on the sale of investments are included in other
revenues in the Consolidated Income Statements. Realized gains and losses on
sales of investments available for sale were as follows for the years ended
December 31:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               1999       1998      1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>       <C>
Gross realized gains                                          $30,697    $7,457    $3,867
Gross realized losses                                             (64)     (176)     (181)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Net realized gains                                          $30,633    $7,281    $3,686
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     Investment securities deposited with insurance regulatory authorities to
meet statutory requirements or held by a trustee for the benefit of primary
insurance carriers were $7.3 million at December 31, 1999 and $5.8 million at
December 31, 1998. At December 31, 1999, the carrying amount of securities
pledged to secure repurchase agreements was $111.3 million and the carrying
value of securities pledged to secure Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") advances
was $276.2 million. At December 31, 1998, no securities were pledged in
connection with repurchase agreements or FHLB advances

     Trading investments at December 31, 1998 consisted of AAA rated classes of
Advanta Mortgage Loan Trust 1998-2 and Advanta Mortgage Loan Trust 1998-4
securities. There were no investments classified as trading at December 31,
1999. Net realized and unrealized gains on trading investments were $1,471
thousand in 1998, and were included in other revenues.

                                       55
<PAGE>   57
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 3.  LOAN AND LEASE RECEIVABLES

Loan and lease receivables on the balance sheet, including those held for sale,
consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    DECEMBER 31,
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 1999          1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>
Advanta Mortgage loans(1)                                     $1,050,478    $  829,819
Business cards(2)                                                275,095       150,022
Leases(3)                                                        132,802       122,657
Other loans                                                       21,930        17,862
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Gross loan and lease receivables                     1,480,305     1,120,360
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Add: Deferred origination costs, net of deferred fees, and
  unamortized purchase premiums                                   11,166        20,504
Less Allowance for credit losses:
  Advanta Mortgage loans                                         (21,743)      (20,092)
  Business cards                                                 (14,663)       (6,916)
  Leases                                                          (3,110)       (2,695)
  Other loans                                                     (2,331)       (3,734)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total allowance                                        (41,847)      (33,437)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Net loan and lease receivables                      $1,449,624    $1,107,427
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) Includes Advanta Mortgage loan receivables held for sale of $510.9 million
    in 1999 and $459.5 million in 1998.

(2) Includes business cards held for sale of $152.4 million in 1999 and $28.1
    million in 1998.

(3) Includes leases held for sale of $43.3 million in 1999 and $40.0 million in
    1998, and is net of unearned income of $20.8 million in 1999 and $19.4
    million in 1998. Also includes residual interests of $78.7 million in 1999
    and $67.1 million in 1998.

Securitized receivables consist of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    DECEMBER 31,
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 1999          1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>
Advanta Mortgage loans                                        $7,333,058    $7,447,502
Business cards                                                   765,019       664,712
Leases                                                           662,841       547,583
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total                                               $8,760,918    $8,659,797
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     Advanta Mortgage loans include home equity loans, home equity lines of
credit and auto loans, and exclude subservicing loans which were never owned by
Advanta, but which Advanta services for a fee. Subservicing receivables were
$11.9 billion at December 31, 1999 and $8.3 billion at December 31, 1998.
Advanta bears no risk of credit loss on the receivables in our subservicing
portfolio and subserviced loans are not included in the Company's managed
portfolio of receivables. At December 31, 1999, two clients represented 66% of
the subservicing receivables portfolio.

     At December 31, 1999, approximately 87% of Advanta Mortgage managed
receivables represented first lien position loans and the balance was second
lien position loans. At December 31, 1998, approximately 92% of Advanta Mortgage
managed receivables represented first lien position loans. Home equity lines of
credit represented 10% of the managed mortgage loan portfolio at December 31,
1999 and 5% at December 31, 1998. Advanta Mortgage managed receivables were
comprised of approximately 62% of fixed rate loans at December 31, 1999 and 65%
of fixed rate loans at December 31, 1998. Lease receivables are priced on a
fixed rate basis. Business card receivables have variable rates based on the
LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate) index.

                                       56
<PAGE>   58
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

The geographic concentration of managed receivables (owned receivables and
securitized receivables) was as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      DECEMBER 31,
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                               1999                   1998
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                     <C>           <C>      <C>          <C>
California                                              $ 1,246,632      12%   $1,246,394      13%
Michigan                                                    707,978       7       816,971       8
Pennsylvania                                                588,386       6       517,369       5
Florida                                                     572,187       6       541,501       6
New York                                                    552,502       5       510,187       5
All other                                                 6,573,538      64     6,147,735      63
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total managed receivables                     $10,241,223     100%   $9,780,157     100%
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     In the normal course of business, Advanta makes commitments to extend
credit to its business card and home equity line of credit customers.
Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to a customer subject to
certain conditions established in the contract. Advanta does not require
collateral to support credit card commitments. Advanta had commitments to extend
credit outstanding for which there was potential credit risk of $4.4 billion at
December 31, 1999 and $3.3 billion at December 31, 1998. Advanta believes that
its customers' utilization of these lines of credit will continue to be
substantially less than the amount of the commitments, as has been Advanta's
experience to date. Unused commitments were $2.6 billion at December 31, 1999
and $2.1 billion at December 31, 1998.

NOTE 4.  ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES

The following table displays five years of allowance history:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      1999        1998         1997         1996        1995
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>
Balance at January 1                $ 33,437    $ 137,773    $  89,184    $ 53,494    $ 41,617
Provision for credit losses           42,647       67,193      210,826      96,862      53,326
Transfer from recourse reserves            0            0            0       3,000       1,100
Allowances on receivables (sold)
  purchased                           (6,690)    (118,420)     (11,015)      6,404           0
Gross charge-offs:
     Advanta Mortgage loans          (15,132)     (14,313)      (6,825)     (3,473)     (6,038)
     Business cards                  (11,341)     (11,126)      (6,403)     (2,230)        N/A
     Leases                           (4,429)      (4,992)      (3,180)     (1,214)     (1,413)
     Consumer credit cards                 0      (30,999)    (155,528)    (73,466)    (41,779)
     Other loans                      (2,404)           0           (4)        (13)        (38)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total gross charge-offs    (33,306)     (61,430)    (171,940)    (80,396)    (49,268)
Recoveries:
     Advanta Mortgage loans            3,011        3,007          991         414          76
     Business cards                    1,238        1,093          205          61         N/A
     Leases                            1,503        1,501        1,010         381         274
     Consumer credit cards                 0        2,719       18,511       8,945       6,354
     Other loans                           7            1            1          19          15
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total recoveries             5,759        8,321       20,718       9,820       6,719
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net charge-offs                      (27,547)     (53,109)    (151,222)    (70,576)    (42,549)
Balance at December 31              $ 41,847    $  33,437    $ 137,773    $ 89,184    $ 53,494
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                       57
<PAGE>   59
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 5.  SECURITIZATION ACTIVITIES

The following table presents activity in the retained interest-only ("IO") strip
and contractual mortgage servicing rights ("CMSR") asset related to Advanta
Mortgage loan securitizations:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 1999        1998(1)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>
Beginning balance IO Strip                                     $209,096      $183,306
Beginning balance CMSR                                         $ 74,425      $ 24,546
  IO activity:
     Retained IO on sales, net                                   50,462       181,425
     Interest income                                             19,354        21,674
     Cash received and used to acquire subordinated trust
      assets                                                   (111,600)      (96,455)
     Cash received and released to Advanta                      (25,760)      (29,874)
     Fair value adjustments                                     (20,731)      (50,980)
     Fair value adjustment related to auto exit                  (7,828)            0
     Other                                                        2,648             0
  CMSR activity:
     Servicing rights retained                                   54,124        71,131
     Amortization                                               (39,134)      (12,977)
     Valuation provision                                          3,221        (8,275)
Ending balance IO Strip                                        $115,641      $209,096
Ending balance CMSR                                            $ 92,636      $ 74,425
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) In 1999, Advanta reclassified $25.3 million from IO strip to CMSR to better
    reflect the deal structures. In addition, Advanta reclassified from IO strip
    $7.4 million as subordinated trust assets and $5.6 million as due from
    trustee, as these amounts had already been collected by the trust. These
    reclassifications had no impact on earnings. The 1998 balances have been
    reclassified to conform to this presentation.

     Securitized Advanta Mortgage loans outstanding were $7.3 billion at
December 31, 1999 and $7.4 billion at December 31, 1998. The retained
interest-only strip is net of estimated liabilities for anticipated charge-offs
of $191.4 million at December 31, 1999 and $149.0 million at December 31, 1998.

     The balance in the valuation allowance for contractual mortgage servicing
rights was $5.1 million at December 31, 1999 and was $8.3 million at December
31, 1998. During 1999, 1998 and 1997, there were no direct write-downs or other
reductions to the valuation allowance.

     The following table presents activity in subordinated trust assets related
to Advanta Mortgage loan securitizations:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 1999          1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>
Beginning balance                                              $291,942      $178,469
  Initial collateral deposits                                    45,717        38,907
  Subordinated trust assets acquired with excess cash flows     111,600        96,455
  Interest income                                                27,227        14,173
  Valuation adjustment related to auto loans                     (4,172)            0
  Valuation adjustment related to mortgage loans                (11,269)            0
  Excess cash flows released to Advanta                         (60,481)      (50,044)
  Net change associated with off-balance sheet warehouse
     facilities                                                    (416)       13,982
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ending balance                                                 $400,148      $291,942
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                       58
<PAGE>   60
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In addition to subordinated trust assets, there were also restricted
interest-bearing deposits of $35.8 million at December 31, 1999 and $25.3
million at December 31, 1998 relating to Advanta Mortgage loan securitizations.
These deposits, the subordinated trust assets and the retained interest-only
strip serve as credit enhancements for the securitization transactions.

     Securitized business cards outstanding were $765 million at December 31,
1999 and $665 million at December 31, 1998. Advanta had retained interests from
business card securitizations of $39.3 million at December 31, 1999 and $31.2
million at December 31, 1998. These retained interests serve as credit
enhancements for the securitization transactions and include the retained
interest-only strip, subordinated trust assets and restricted cash reserves.
These assets are included in other assets and restricted interest-bearing
deposits on the balance sheet. The business card retained interest-only strip is
net of estimated liabilities for anticipated charge-offs of $26.5 million at
December 31, 1999 and $25.5 million at December 31, 1998.

     Securitized lease receivables outstanding were $663 million at December 31,
1999 and $548 million at December 31, 1998. Advanta had net retained interests
from leasing securitizations of $50.9 million at December 31, 1999 and $29.6
million at December 31, 1998. These retained interests serve as credit
enhancements for the securitization transactions and include the retained
interest-only strip, servicing assets, subordinated trust assets and restricted
interest-bearing deposits. These assets are included in other assets and
restricted interest-bearing deposits on the balance sheet. The leasing retained
interest-only strip is net of estimated liabilities for anticipated charge-offs
of $19.1 million at December 31, 1999 and $15.7 million at December 31, 1998.
Total interests in equipment residuals for securitized leases that serve as
credit enhancements for the securitization transactions were $46.5 million at
December 31, 1999 and $40.6 million at December 31, 1998. Interests in equipment
residuals are included in loan and lease receivables.

NOTE 6.  SELECTED BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION

Other assets consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  DECEMBER 31,
                                                              --------------------
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                1999        1998
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
Servicing advances                                            $105,302    $141,389
Current and deferred federal and state income taxes, net
  (see Note 19)                                                 89,788      31,243
Accrued interest receivable                                     32,410      27,184
Other real estate(A)                                             9,560       6,622
Goodwill                                                         3,323       3,600
Other                                                          284,553     357,428
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total other assets                                  $524,936    $567,466
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(A) Carried at the lower of cost or fair market value less selling costs.

Other liabilities consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  DECEMBER 31,
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                1999        1998
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
Accounts payable and accrued expenses                         $ 98,423    $ 66,852
Accrued interest payable                                        36,554      38,035
Current and deferred state income taxes                              0       2,445
Other                                                          154,586     137,546
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total other liabilities                             $289,563    $244,878
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                       59
<PAGE>   61
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 7.  LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt consists of borrowings having an original maturity of over one
year. The composition of long-term debt at December 31, 1999 and 1998, was as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   DECEMBER 31,
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                1999         1998
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
SENIOR DEBT
12 month senior notes (8.39%-9.40%)                           $ 86,647    $   48,948
18 month senior notes (7.42%-9.21%)                              8,344         6,565
24 month senior notes (7.14%-9.71%)                             50,571        32,360
30 month senior notes (6.95%-9.44%)                             13,852        13,609
48 month senior notes (5.97%-9.49%)                              8,427         8,454
60 month senior notes (6.02%-9.67%)                             28,863        20,779
Value notes, fixed (7.00%-7.85%)                                 7,779         9,300
Medium-term notes, fixed (6.54%-7.50%)                         490,650       703,460
Medium-term notes, floating                                     47,400       163,000
Medium-term bank notes, fixed (6.45%-7.12%)                      7,347         7,338
Other senior notes (6.77%-11.34%)                               37,670        14,844
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total senior debt                                    787,550     1,028,657
Subordinated notes (7.00%-11.34%)                                  958         1,490
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total long-term debt                                $788,508    $1,030,147
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     Advanta has priced its floating rate medium-term notes based on a spread
over LIBOR. At December 31, 1999, the rates on these notes varied from 6.05% to
6.91%. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, Advanta used derivative financial
instruments to effectively convert certain fixed rate debt to a LIBOR-based
variable rate (see Note 24).

     The annual maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 1999 for the years
ending December 31 are as follows: $353.8 million in 2000; $338.2 million in
2001; $78.6 million in 2002; $7.4 million in 2003; and $10.5 million in 2004.
The average interest cost of Advanta's long-term debt was 6.53% during 1999,
6.52% during 1998, and 6.38% during 1997.

NOTE 8.  OTHER BORROWINGS

The composition of other borrowings was as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                1999       1998
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
Securities sold under repurchase agreements                   $104,191    $     0
FHLB advances                                                  220,000          0
Warehouse facility                                              76,435     18,517
Other borrowings                                                 8,975     17,784
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total                                               $409,601    $36,301
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     Advanta has secured warehouse financing facilities and secured commercial
paper conduit facilities totaling $2.4 billion at December 31, 1999. Of the
total, $1.8 billion was committed. These commitments can be withdrawn under
certain conditions, including the failure of Advanta to make payments under the
terms of the agreements. Advanta pays a monthly facility fee on the unused
commitments of up to 35 basis points. These facilities provide for on-balance
sheet and off-balance sheet funding. At December 31, 1999, Advanta

                                       60
<PAGE>   62
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

had $1.2 billion available under these facilities, as there was $1.2 billion of
loans funded through these facilities, $76.4 million of which were accounted for
as secured borrowings. These facilities are generally renewable annually. Upon
the expiration of these facilities, management expects to obtain the appropriate
levels of replacement funding under similar terms and conditions. At December
31, 1998, Advanta had secured warehouse financing facilities and secured
commercial paper conduit facilities totaling $1.5 billion. There were $536.1
million of loans funded through these facilities at December 31, 1998; $18.5
million of which were accounted for as secured borrowings.

     Advanta is subject to loan covenants related to the maintenance of certain
equity levels at the borrowing subsidiaries, limitations on mergers and
acquisitions, limitations on transactions with affiliates, and maintenance of
adequate investment base and interest rate protection agreements. Management
believes that at December 31, 1999, Advanta was in compliance with all such loan
covenants.

     The following table displays information related to selected types of
short-term borrowings:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 1999              1998              1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             AMOUNT    RATE    AMOUNT    RATE    AMOUNT    RATE
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>        <C>    <C>        <C>    <C>        <C>
At year end:
  Securities sold under repurchase
     agreements                             $104,191   5.78%  $      0      0%  $      0      0%
  FHLB advances                              220,000   5.53          0      0          0      0
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Average for the year:
  Securities sold under repurchase
     agreements                             $ 24,647   5.39%  $ 69,916   6.05%  $  9,796   5.66%
  Term fed funds, fed funds purchased and
     FHLB advances                            11,432   5.57        272   5.61     11,925   5.71
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                                     $ 36,079   5.43%  $ 70,188   6.05%  $ 21,721   5.69%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Maximum month-end balance:
  Securities sold under repurchase
     agreements                             $104,191          $259,643          $149,130
  Term fed funds, fed funds purchased and
     FHLB advances                           220,000             1,700            65,000
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     The weighted average interest rates were calculated by dividing the
interest expense for the period by the average amount of short-term borrowings
outstanding during the period, calculated as an average of daily amounts.

NOTE 9.  DISPOSITION OF CONSUMER CREDIT CARD ASSETS

In accordance with the terms of the contribution agreement, dated as of October
28, 1997, as amended February 20, 1998, by and between Advanta and Fleet
Financial Group, Inc. ("Fleet"), Advanta and certain of its subsidiaries and
Fleet and certain of its subsidiaries each contributed certain assets and
liabilities of their respective consumer credit card businesses to Fleet Credit
Card LLC ("Fleet LLC") in exchange for an ownership interest in Fleet LLC.
Subsequent to February 20, 1998, Fleet Credit Card Services LP became the
successor in interest to Fleet LLC. References to Fleet LLC include its
successor in interest, Fleet Credit Card Services LP. Advanta recognized a gain
on the transfer of the consumer credit card business (the "Consumer Credit Card
Transaction") representing the excess of liabilities transferred to Fleet LLC
over the net basis of the assets transferred. The gain also included Advanta's
ownership interest in Fleet LLC. The gain on the transfer was not subject to
income tax and no tax provision was recorded. The contribution agreement
provides for the parties to make a final determination of the transferred assets
and liabilities. As further described in Note 10, Advanta and Fleet are parties
to a lawsuit concerning disputes regarding the final determination of the
transferred assets and liabilities. It is possible that the outcome of the
litigation will result in an increase or decrease to the gain recorded.

                                       61
<PAGE>   63
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Advanta retained certain immaterial assets of its consumer credit card
business, which are not required in the operation of that business, and certain
liabilities related to its consumer credit card business. These retained assets
and liabilities include among others, all reserves relating to its credit
insurance business and any liability or obligation relating to certain consumer
credit card accounts generated in specific programs which comprised a very small
portion of Advanta's consumer credit card receivables as of February 20, 1998.
The assets and liabilities retained have been classified in other assets and
other liabilities.

     The contribution was accounted for as: (1) the transfer of financial assets
(cash, loans, and other receivables) and an extinguishment of financial
liabilities (deposits, debt and other borrowings and other liabilities)
following SFAS 125; and (2) the sale of non-financial assets and liabilities
(principally property and equipment, prepaid assets, deferred costs and certain
contractual obligations). The financial assets, non-financial assets and
liabilities of Advanta's consumer credit card business that were contributed
were removed from the balance sheet. Advanta was legally released as primary
obligor under all of the financial liabilities contributed and, accordingly,
they were removed from the balance sheet.

     Concurrently with the Consumer Credit Card Transaction, Advanta purchased
7,882,750 shares of its Class A Common Stock and 12,482,850 of its Class B
Common Stock, each at $40 per share net, and 1,078,930 of its depositary shares
each representing one one-hundredth interest in a share of 6 3/4% Convertible
Class B Preferred Stock, Series 1995 Stock Appreciated Income Linked Securities
at $32.80 per share net, through an issuer tender offer (the "Tender Offer")
which was completed on February 20, 1998. The Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency approved the payment of a special dividend/return of capital from
Advanta National Bank to Advanta Corp., its parent company, to effect the
purchase of the shares.

NOTE 10.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

On January 22, 1999, Fleet and certain of its affiliates filed a lawsuit against
Advanta and certain of its subsidiaries in Delaware Chancery Court. Fleet's
allegations, which Advanta denies, center around Fleet's assertions that Advanta
has failed to complete certain post-closing adjustments to the value of the
assets and liabilities Advanta contributed to Fleet LLC in connection with the
Consumer Credit Card Transaction. Fleet seeks damages of approximately $141
million. Advanta has filed an answer to the complaint denying the material
allegations of the complaint, but acknowledging that Advanta contributed $1.8
million in excess liabilities in the post-closing adjustment process, after
taking into account the liabilities Advanta has already assumed. Advanta also
has filed a countercomplaint against Fleet for approximately $101 million in
damages Advanta believes have been caused by certain actions of Fleet following
the closing of the Consumer Credit Card Transaction. Formal discovery has begun
and is ongoing. Management expects that the ultimate resolution of this
litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or
future operating results of Advanta.

     On or about March 26, 1999, a complaint was filed by John Uphaus,
individually and on behalf of a class, against Household Bank (Nevada) N.A.
("Household") and Advanta National Bank in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of Illinois. Uphaus alleges that he had a credit card
account with Household, which account was purchased by Advanta National Bank. He
further alleges that the annual percentage rate on a portion of his account was
increased in a manner contrary to the promotional material he received.
Advanta's preliminary investigation suggests that if a change in interest rate
took place, as alleged by Uphaus, that change occurred after the contribution of
Advanta's consumer credit card portfolio, and it was made by Fleet LLC. In any
event, Fleet LLC is obligated to defend and indemnify Advanta pursuant to the
contribution agreement and the licensing agreement between the parties. Advanta
National Bank's response to this complaint was originally due on June 21, 1999.
The court has extended this deadline several times to allow the parties to
exchange information; thus, no response has been filed by either defendant. Some
formal discovery has begun.

     Advanta and its subsidiaries are involved in other legal proceedings,
claims and litigation, including those arising in the ordinary course of
business. Management believes that the aggregate liabilities, if any, resulting

                                       62
<PAGE>   64
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

from those actions will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated
financial position or results of operations of Advanta. However, as the ultimate
resolution of these proceedings is influenced by factors outside of Advanta's
control, it is reasonably possible that Advanta's estimated liability under
these proceedings may change.

     Advanta leases office space in several states under leases accounted for as
operating leases. Total rent expense for all of Advanta's locations was $9.4
million in 1999, $7.9 million in 1998, and $11.3 million in 1997. The future
minimum lease payments of all non-cancelable operating leases are as follows:

<TABLE>
<S>                                                           <C>
Year Ended December 31,
2000                                                          $ 6,807
2001                                                            6,339
2002                                                            5,446
2003                                                            5,064
2004                                                            5,040
Thereafter                                                     10,126
</TABLE>

NOTE 11.  MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SECURITIES

In December 1996, Advanta Capital Trust I (the "Trust"), a newly formed
statutory business trust established and wholly-owned by Advanta, issued $100
million of capital securities, representing preferred beneficial interests in
the assets of the Trust (the "capital securities"). Advanta used the proceeds
from the sale for general corporate purposes. The assets of the Trust consist of
$100 million of 8.99% junior subordinated debentures issued by Advanta due
December 17, 2026. The capital securities will be subject to mandatory
redemption under certain circumstances. These circumstances include the optional
prepayment by Advanta of the junior subordinated debentures at any time on or
after December 17, 2006 at an amount per capital security equal to 104.495% of
the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid distributions. This amount declines
ratably on each December 17 thereafter to 100% on December 17, 2016. The
obligations of Advanta with respect to the junior subordinated debentures, when
considered together with the obligations of Advanta under the indenture relating
to the junior subordinated debentures, the Amended and Restated Declaration of
Trust and the capital securities guarantee issued by Advanta will provide, in
the aggregate, a full and unconditional guarantee of payments of distributions
and other amounts due on the capital securities. Dividends on the capital
securities are cumulative, payable semi-annually in arrears, and are deferrable
at Advanta's option for up to ten consecutive semi-annual periods. Advanta
cannot pay dividends on its preferred or common stocks during deferments.
Dividends on the capital securities have been classified as minority interest in
income of consolidated subsidiary in the Consolidated Income Statements. The
Trust has no operations or assets separate from its investment in the junior
subordinated debentures. Separate financial statements of the Trust are not
presented because management has determined that they would not be meaningful to
investors.

NOTE 12.  CAPITAL STOCK

Class A Preferred Stock is entitled to 1/2 vote per share and a non-cumulative
dividend of $140 per share per year, which must be paid prior to any dividend on
the common stock. The redemption price of the Class A Preferred Stock is
equivalent to its par value.

     In 1995, Advanta sold 2,500,000 depositary shares each representing a
one-hundredth interest in a share of Stock Appreciation Income Linked Securities
("SAILS"). The SAILS constituted a series of Advanta's Class B Preferred Stock,
designated as 6 3/4% Convertible Class B Preferred Stock, Series 1995. On
September 15, 1999, all of the 1.4 million outstanding depositary shares, each
representing a one-hundredth interest in a share of SAILS, mandatorily converted
into 1.4 million shares of Class B Common Stock.

                                       63
<PAGE>   65
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     On February 20, 1998, Advanta purchased 7,882,750 shares of its Class A
Common Stock and 12,482,850 of its Class B Common Stock at $40 per share net,
and 1,078,930 of its depositary shares each representing a one-hundredth
interest in a share of SAILS, at $32.80 per share net, through the Tender Offer.

     In 1998, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 2.5
million shares of Advanta's Class A and Class B Common Stock and the formation
of an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP"). Through December 31, 1999, Advanta
had purchased 445,600 shares of Class B Common Stock and 1,405,000 shares of
Class A Common Stock at a total cost of $21.1 million. Of the total shares
purchased, 1,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock were purchased for Advanta's
ESOP.

NOTE 13.  BENEFIT PLANS

RESTRICTED STOCK PLANS

Advanta has adopted several management incentive plans designed to provide
incentives to participating employees to remain in the employ of Advanta and
devote themselves to its success. Under these plans, eligible employees were
given the opportunity to elect to take portions of their anticipated or target
bonus payments for future years in the form of restricted shares of common stock
(with each plan covering three performance years). To the extent that these
elections were made, or were required by the terms of the plans for executive
officers, restricted shares were issued to employees. The number of shares
granted to employees is determined by dividing the amount of future bonus
payments that the employee had elected to receive in stock by the market price
as determined under the incentive plans. The restricted shares are subject to
forfeiture prior to vesting should the employee terminate employment with
Advanta. Restricted shares vest 10 years from the date of grant. Vesting was and
may continue to be accelerated annually with respect to up to one-third of the
shares granted under the plan covering the particular performance year, based on
the extent to which the employee and Advanta met or meet their respective
performance goals for that plan performance year. When newly eligible employees
elect to participate in a plan, the number of shares issued to them with respect
to their target bonus payments for the relevant plan performance years is
determined based on the average market price of the stock for the 90 days prior
to eligibility. Compensation expense on restricted shares is recognized over the
vesting period of the shares. Compensation expense recognized in connection with
restricted shares was $3.8 million in 1999, $8.2 million in 1998 and $11.3
million in 1997. The following table summarizes restricted shares outstanding
and shares issued.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           1999                           1998
                                                        -------------------   ----------------------------
(SHARES IN THOUSANDS)                          ---------   WEIGHTED AVERAGE               WEIGHTED AVERAGE
                                               NUMBER OF   PRICE AT DATE OF   NUMBER OF   PRICE AT DATE OF
                                                SHARES         ISSUANCE        SHARES         ISSUANCE
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                            <C>         <C>                <C>         <C>
Restricted shares outstanding at December 31     1,750           $15            1,592           $20
Restricted shares issued in the year ended
  December 31                                    1,002           $11            1,234           $17
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     Advanta also grants shares of phantom stock to certain officers in lieu of
restricted shares. In 1999, there were 27,413 shares of phantom stock granted at
a price of $10.625. In 1998, there were 50,632 phantom stock shares granted at a
price of $10.625. Shares of phantom stock outstanding totaled 78,045 at December
31, 1999 and 50,632 at December 31, 1998. There were no phantom shares granted
before 1998. Compensation expense related to the appreciation on shares of
phantom stock was not material during 1999 or 1998.

STOCK OPTION PLANS

At December 31, 1999 Advanta had two stock option plans and accounts for these
plans following Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, under which no
compensation expense has been recognized.

                                       64
<PAGE>   66
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Had compensation cost for these plans been determined consistent with SFAS
123, Advanta's net income and earnings per share would have been reduced to the
following pro forma amounts:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               1999        1998       1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>         <C>
Net income
  As reported                                                 $49,818    $447,880    $71,625
  Pro forma                                                   $41,810     436,960     58,576
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Basic earnings per share
  As reported
     Combined                                                 $  1.99    $  16.65    $  1.52
     Class A                                                     1.95       16.62       1.45
     Class B                                                     2.02       16.68       1.57
  Pro forma
     Combined                                                 $  1.65    $  16.24    $  1.22
     Class A                                                     1.62       16.21       1.15
     Class B                                                     1.68       16.27       1.27
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diluted earnings per share
  As reported
     Combined                                                 $  1.96    $  15.71    $  1.50
     Class A                                                     1.93       15.69       1.43
     Class B                                                     1.99       15.73       1.54
  Pro forma
     Combined                                                 $  1.63    $  15.33    $  1.20
     Class A                                                     1.59       15.31       1.14
     Class B                                                     1.65       15.34       1.24
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions for the years ended December 31:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                  1999    1998    1997
                                  --------------------
<S>                               <C>     <C>     <C>
Dividend yield                      3%      3%      1%
Expected life (in years)           10      10      10
Expected volatility                51%     48%     40%
Risk-free interest rate           5.4%    5.7%    6.7%
</TABLE>

     Because SFAS 123 has not been applied to options granted prior to January
1, 1995, the resulting pro forma compensation cost may not be representative of
that to be expected in future years.

     During 1997 and 1998, Advanta changed the exercise price of certain options
granted during 1996 and 1997 to the market price on the date of the
modification. These modifications did not result in additional compensation
expense under the accounting prescribed by SFAS 123. Also in 1998, Advanta
amended the terms of options granted to employees who became employees of Fleet
LLC or whose employment was otherwise terminated in connection with the Consumer
Credit Card Transaction to extend the post-employment exercise period. In 1998,
Advanta accelerated vesting of 43.15% of outstanding options that were not
vested at the time of the Consumer Credit Card Transaction. See discussion in
Note 20 of charges to earnings relating to these modifications.

     Advanta's two stock option plans together authorize the grant to employees
and directors of options to purchase an aggregate of 10.2 million shares of
common stock. Advanta presently intends only to issue options to purchase Class
B Common Stock. Substantially all of the options outstanding at December 31,
1999 were options to purchase Class B Common Stock. Options generally vest over
a four-year period and expire 10 years

                                       65
<PAGE>   67
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

after the date of grant. Shares available for future grant were approximately
2.7 million at December 31, 1999 and 2.2 million at December 31, 1998.
Transactions under the plans for the three years ended December 31, 1999, were
as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   1999                           1998                           1997
                       ----------------------------   ----------------------------   ----------------------------
                       NUMBER OF   WEIGHTED AVERAGE   NUMBER OF   WEIGHTED AVERAGE   NUMBER OF   WEIGHTED AVERAGE
                        SHARES      EXERCISE PRICE     SHARES      EXERCISE PRICE     SHARES      EXERCISE PRICE
                       ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                    <C>         <C>                <C>         <C>                <C>         <C>
Outstanding at
  beginning of year      2,988           $22            3,934           $27            4,109           $25
Granted                  1,358            10            1,186            18              967            27
Exercised                   (8)            2           (1,471)           24             (774)           11
Terminated              (1,610)           23             (661)           21             (368)           33
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Outstanding at end of
  year                   2,728            15            2,988            22            3,934            27
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Options exercisable
  at year-end              722                          1,353                          2,003
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average fair
  value of options
  granted during the
  year                  $ 4.60                         $ 8.05                         $22.90
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 31, 1999.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
    (SHARES IN THOUSANDS)         OPTIONS OUTSTANDING                       OPTIONS EXERCISABLE
                   -------------------------------------------------   ------------------------------
                     NUMBER      WEIGHTED AVERAGE                        NUMBER
    RANGE OF       OUTSTANDING      REMAINING       WEIGHTED AVERAGE   EXERCISABLE   WEIGHTED AVERAGE
EXERCISE PRICES    AT 12/31/99   CONTRACTUAL LIFE    EXERCISE PRICE    AT 12/31/99    EXERCISE PRICE
                   -------------------------------------------------   ------------------------------
<C>                <C>           <S>                <C>                <C>           <C>
     1 to 10          1,004         9.1 years             $ 8                56            $ 9
    11 to 20          1,053         8.6                    16               192             17
    21 to 30            641         6.6                    22               445             22
    31 to 40             27         5.8                    38                27             38
    41 to 46              3         6.2                    46                 2             46
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Total          2,728                                                 722
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     During 1999 and 1998, Advanta issued stock appreciation rights to certain
directors of Advanta in exchange for or in lieu of options. At December 31,
1999, 1,230 rights were outstanding with a strike price of $4.75, 127,000 rights
were outstanding with a strike price of $10.75, 163,074 rights were outstanding
with a strike price of $12.33 and 233,675 rights were outstanding with a strike
price between $19.00 and $22.125. At December 31, 1998, 1,230 rights were
outstanding with a strike price of $4.75, 163,074 rights were outstanding with a
strike price of $12.33 and 233,675 rights were outstanding with a strike price
between $19.00 and $22.125. Total stock appreciation rights outstanding were
524,979 at December 31, 1999 and 397,979 at December 31, 1998. Compensation
expense related to stock appreciation rights was not material in 1999 or 1998.

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

Advanta has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which allows employees and
directors to purchase Class B Common Stock at a 15% discount from the market
price without paying brokerage fees. Advanta reports this 15% discount as
compensation expense and incurred expense of $162 thousand in 1999, $200
thousand in 1998, and $339 thousand in 1997. Shares issued under the plan are
issued at the average market price on the day of purchase.

                                       66
<PAGE>   68
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN

Advanta has a tax-deferred employee savings plan, which provides employees with
savings and investment opportunities, including the ability to invest in
Advanta's Class B Common Stock. The employee savings plan provides for
discretionary employer contributions equal to a portion of the first 5% of an
employee's compensation contributed to the plan. For the three years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, Advanta contributions equaled 100% of the
first 5% of participating employees' compensation contributed to the plan. The
expense for this plan totaled $2.7 million in 1999, $2.4 million in 1998, and
$3.5 million in 1997. All shares purchased by the plan in the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 were acquired from Advanta at the market price
on each purchase date or were purchased on the open market.

DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

Advanta offers an elective, nonqualified deferred compensation plan to qualified
executives and non-employee directors, which allows them to defer a portion of
their cash compensation on a pretax basis. The plan contains provisions related
to minimum contribution levels and deferral periods with respect to any
individual's participation. The plan participant makes irrevocable elections at
the date of deferral as to deferral period and date of distribution. Interest is
credited to the participant's account at the rate of 125% of the 10-year rolling
average interest rate on 10-Year U.S. Treasury Notes. Distribution from the plan
may be either at retirement or at an earlier date, and can be either in a lump
sum or in installment payments. Advanta has purchased life insurance contracts
with a face value of $55 million to fund this plan.

EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN

On September 10, 1998, Advanta's Board of Directors authorized the formation of
an Employee Stock Ownership Plan, covering all employees of Advanta who have
reached age 21 with one year of service. During 1998, the ESOP borrowed
approximately $12.6 million from Advanta and used the proceeds to purchase
approximately 1,000,000 shares of Advanta's Class A Common Stock. The ESOP loan
is repayable with an interest rate of 8% over 30 years. Advanta makes annual
contributions to the ESOP equal to the ESOP's debt service less dividends
received on unallocated shares by the ESOP. As the ESOP loan is repaid, shares
are allocated to active employees, based on the proportion of debt service paid
in the year. Advanta accounts for its ESOP in accordance with AICPA Statement of
Position 93-6, "Employer's Accounting for Employee Stock Ownership Plans."
Accordingly, unallocated shares are reported as unearned ESOP shares in the
balance sheet. As shares of common stock acquired by the ESOP are committed to
be released to each employee, Advanta reports compensation expense equal to the
current market price of the shares, and the shares become outstanding for
earnings per share computations. Dividends on allocated ESOP shares are recorded
as a reduction of retained earnings; dividends on unallocated ESOP shares are
used to fund debt service of the ESOP. ESOP compensation expense was $535
thousand for the year ended December 31, 1999 and $17 thousand for the year
ended December 31, 1998. At December 31, 1999 there were 965,229 unearned and
unallocated ESOP shares with a fair value of $17.6 million. At December 31,
1998, there were 998,513 unearned and unallocated ESOP shares with a fair value
of $13.2 million.

NOTE 14.  CAPITAL RATIOS

Advanta National Bank and Advanta Bank Corp. are wholly-owned subsidiaries of
Advanta. Advanta National Bank and Advanta Bank Corp. are subject to various
regulatory capital requirements administered by the federal banking agencies.
Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory --
and possibly additional discretionary -- actions by regulators that, if
undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the institutions' and
Advanta's financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the
regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the institutions must meet
specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of their assets,
liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory
accounting practices. The institutions' capital amounts and classification are
also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk
weightings and other factors.

                                       67
<PAGE>   69
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy
require the institution to maintain minimum amounts and ratios (set forth in the
table below) of total and Tier I capital (as defined in the regulations) to
risk-weighted assets (as defined), and of Tier I capital (as defined) to average
assets (as defined).

     As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, Advanta National Bank and Advanta Bank
Corp. met all capital adequacy requirements to which they were subject and were
categorized as well-capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt
corrective action. To be categorized as well-capitalized the institutions must
maintain minimum total risk-based capital, Tier I risk-based capital and Tier I
leverage ratios as set forth in the following table.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  TO BE WELL-
                                                                                  CAPITALIZED
                                                                                  UNDER PROMPT
                                                             FOR CAPITAL           CORRECTIVE
                                           ACTUAL         ADEQUACY PURPOSES    ACTION PROVISIONS
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                       AMOUNT    RATIO     AMOUNT    RATIO      AMOUNT     RATIO
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>        <C>      <C>        <C>       <C>        <C>
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1999
- ---------------------------
Total Capital (to Risk Weighted
  Assets)
  Advanta National Bank               $427,409   14.86%   $230,061   greater   $287,576   greater
                                                                     than or              than or
                                                                      equal                 equal
                                                                         to                    to
                                                                       8.0%                 10.0%
  Advanta Bank Corp.                   143,151   13.28      86,204   greater    107,755   greater
                                                                     than or              than or
                                                                      equal                 equal
                                                                         to                    to
                                                                       8.0%                 10.0%
Tier I Capital (to Risk Weighted
  Assets)
  Advanta National Bank               $414,359   14.41%   $115,030   greater   $172,546   greater
                                                                     than or              than or
                                                                      equal                 equal
                                                                         to               to 6.0%
                                                                       4.0%
  Advanta Bank Corp.                   128,193   11.90      43,102   greater     64,653   greater
                                                                     than or              than or
                                                                      equal                 equal
                                                                         to               to 6.0%
                                                                       4.0%
Tier I Capital (to Average Assets)
  Advanta National Bank               $414,359   18.18%   $ 91,193   greater   $113,991   greater
                                                                     than or              than or
                                                                      equal                 equal
                                                                         to               to 5.0%
                                                                       4.0%
  Advanta Bank Corp.                   128,193   27.86      18,406   greater     23,008   greater
                                                                     than or              than or
                                                                      equal                 equal
                                                                         to               to 5.0%
                                                                       4.0%
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1998
- ---------------------------
Total Capital (to Risk Weighted
  Assets)
  Advanta National Bank               $380,107   12.12%   $250,932   greater   $313,665   greater
                                                                     than or              than or
                                                                      equal                 equal
                                                                         to                    to
                                                                       8.0%                 10.0%
  Advanta Bank Corp.                    41,840   14.13      23,683   greater     29,604   greater
                                                                     than or              than or
                                                                      equal                 equal
                                                                         to                    to
                                                                       8.0%                 10.0%
Tier I Capital (to Risk Weighted
  Assets)
  Advanta National Bank               $370,281   11.80%   $125,466   greater   $188,199   greater
                                                                     than or              than or
                                                                      equal                 equal
                                                                         to               to 6.0%
                                                                       4.0%
  Advanta Bank Corp.                    38,139   12.88      11,842   greater     17,763   greater
                                                                     than or              than or
                                                                      equal                 equal
                                                                         to               to 6.0%
                                                                       4.0%
Tier I Capital (to Average Assets)
  Advanta National Bank               $370,281   17.13%   $ 86,458   greater   $108,074   greater
                                                                     than or              than or
                                                                      equal                 equal
                                                                         to               to 5.0%
                                                                       4.0%
  Advanta Bank Corp.                    38,139   16.10       9,474   greater     11,842   greater
                                                                     than or              than or
                                                                      equal                 equal
                                                                         to               to 5.0%
                                                                       4.0%
</TABLE>


NOTE 15.  DIVIDEND AND LOAN RESTRICTIONS

In the normal course of business, Advanta and its subsidiaries enter into
agreements, or are subject to regulatory requirements, that result in dividend
and loan restrictions.

     FDIC-insured banks are subject to certain provisions of the Federal Reserve
Act which impose various legal limitations on the extent to which banks may
finance or otherwise supply funds to certain of their affiliates. In particular,
Advanta National Bank and Advanta Bank Corp. are subject to certain restrictions
on any extensions of credit to, or other covered transactions, such as certain
purchases of assets, with Advanta or its affiliates. Advanta National Bank and
Advanta Bank Corp. are prevented by these restrictions from lending to Advanta
and its affiliates unless these extensions of credit are secured by U.S.
Government obligations or other specified collateral. Further, secured
extensions of credit are limited in amount: (a) as to Advanta Corp. or any
affiliate, to 10 percent of each bank's capital and surplus, and (b) as to
Advanta Corp. and all affiliates in the aggregate, to 20 percent of each bank's
capital and surplus.

                                       68
<PAGE>   70
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Under certain grandfathering provisions of the Competitive Equality Banking
Act of 1987, Advanta is not required to register as a bank holding company under
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, so long as Advanta and Advanta
National Bank continue to comply with certain restrictions on their activities.
These restrictions include limiting the scope of Advanta National Bank's
activities to those in which it was engaged prior to March 5, 1987. Since
Advanta National Bank was not making commercial loans at that time, it must
continue to refrain from making commercial loans -- which would include any
loans to Advanta or any of its subsidiaries -- in order for Advanta to maintain
its grandfathered exemption under the Bank Holding Company Act. Advanta has no
present plans to register as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding
Company Act.

     Advanta National Bank is also subject to various legal limitations on the
amount of dividends that can be paid to its parent, Advanta Corp. Advanta
National Bank is eligible to declare a dividend provided that it is not greater
than the current year's net profits plus net profits of the preceding two years.
In addition, dividends paid by either Advanta National Bank or Advanta Bank
Corp. would be prohibited if the effect thereof would cause the bank's capital
to be reduced below applicable minimum capital requirements. During 1998, the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency approved the payment of a special
dividend/return of capital of $1.3 billion from Advanta National Bank to Advanta
Corp. to effect the Tender Offer described in Note 9. As a result of this
special dividend/return of capital and the dividend restrictions described
above, Advanta National Bank will not be eligible to declare any dividends to
Advanta Corp. without prior regulatory approval until at least the first quarter
of 2001. Advanta National Bank paid no dividends to Advanta Corp. during 1999 or
1997. There were no dividends from Advanta Bank Corp. to Advanta Corp. during
1999, 1998 or 1997.

     Advanta's insurance subsidiaries are also subject to certain capital,
deposit and dividend rules and regulations as prescribed by state jurisdictions
in which they are authorized to operate. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the
insurance subsidiaries were in compliance with these rules and regulations.
Insurance subsidiaries paid dividends to Advanta Corp. of $1.2 million in 1999.
Dividends paid to Advanta Corp. in 1998 by insurance subsidiaries were $39
million, including an extraordinary dividend of $35 million that was approved in
advance by the applicable state regulators. There were no dividends paid to
Advanta Corp. by insurance subsidiaries in 1997.

     Total stockholders' equity of Advanta's banking and insurance affiliates
approximated $584 million at December 31, 1999, and $429 million at December 31,
1998. Of Advanta's total equity in these affiliates, $524 million was restricted
at December 31, 1999 and $406 million was restricted at December 31, 1998. At
January 1, 2000, $60 million of stockholders' equity of Advanta's banking and
insurance affiliates was available for payment of dividends under applicable
regulatory guidelines.

     In addition to restrictions at banking subsidiaries, certain non-bank
subsidiaries are subject to minimum equity requirements as part of
securitization agreements or financing facility agreements. The total minimum
equity requirement of non-bank subsidiaries was $35 million at December 31,
1999.

NOTE 16.  SEGMENT INFORMATION

Advanta's reportable segments as of December 31, 1999 were Advanta Mortgage,
Advanta Business Cards and Advanta Leasing Services. Each of these business
segments has separate management teams and infrastructures that offer different
products and services. Through February 20, 1998, Advanta also had an additional
reportable segment, Advanta Personal Payment Services.

     Effective January 1, 1999, Advanta Leasing Services and Advanta Business
Cards were considered separate segments due to the development of separate
management teams and infrastructures in each unit, whereas at December 31, 1998,
they were considered one combined segment, Advanta Business Services. Advanta
has restated the corresponding items of segment information for earlier periods.

     Advanta Mortgage makes nonconforming home equity loans directly to
consumers and through brokers. This business unit originates and services first
and second lien mortgage loans, including home equity lines of

                                       69
<PAGE>   71
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

credit, directly through subsidiaries of Advanta. In addition to servicing and
managing the loans it originates, Advanta Mortgage contracts with third parties
to service their nonconforming home equity loans on a subservicing basis.

     Advanta Business Cards offers MasterCard business credit cards to small
businesses using targeted direct mail and the Internet. This product provides
approved customers with access, through merchants, banks and ATMs, to an instant
unsecured revolving business credit line.

     Advanta Leasing Services offers flexible lease financing programs on
small-ticket equipment to small businesses. The primary products financed
include office machinery, security systems and computers. The commercial
equipment leasing business is generated primarily through third-party referrals
from manufacturers or distributors of equipment, as well as independent brokers,
direct mail marketing and telemarketing. The equipment is leased under
noncancelable leases with initial terms of generally one to five years.

     Prior to the Consumer Credit Card Transaction, Advanta offered consumer
credit cards through Advanta Personal Payment Services. This business segment
issued consumer credit cards nationwide using direct marketing techniques. As of
February 20, 1998, this segment had no operations, and the activity below
reflects operations through that date.

     The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those followed by
Advanta. Centrally incurred operating expenses are allocated to the segments
based on consumption, where practical, or based on average managed assets.
Centrally incurred interest expense is charged to the segments using a funds
transfer pricing methodology primarily based on average assets, and which also
reflects the impact of organization-wide interest rate risk management
strategies. Advanta evaluates performance based largely on the net income of the
respective business units.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             ADVANTA    ADVANTA
                                                 ADVANTA     BUSINESS   LEASING
                                                 MORTGAGE     CARDS     SERVICES    OTHER(1)      TOTAL
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
Noninterest revenues                            $  192,321   $ 84,288   $ 40,182   $    9,506   $  326,297
Interest revenue                                   133,367     35,798     11,524       65,537      246,226
Interest expense                                    89,619     14,541     10,940       52,576      167,676
Unusual charges(2)                                       0          0          0       16,713       16,713
Income tax (benefit) expense(3)                     (7,238)    14,830      1,958      (59,822)     (50,272)
Net (loss) income                                  (10,994)    22,829      3,031       34,952       49,818
Average managed receivables                      8,366,593    892,862    716,520       17,450    9,993,425
Total assets                                     1,841,647    387,440    233,913    1,226,662    3,689,662
Capital expenditures                                15,698      1,000      4,212        4,568       25,478
Depreciation and amortization                        6,715        923      3,998        6,871       18,507
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


                                       70
<PAGE>   72
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         ADVANTA
                                        PERSONAL                  ADVANTA    ADVANTA
                                         PAYMENT      ADVANTA     BUSINESS   LEASING
                                        SERVICES      MORTGAGE     CARDS     SERVICES    OTHER(1)       TOTAL
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>           <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
Noninterest revenues                   $    83,823   $  240,366   $ 53,334   $ 35,107   $    4,762   $   417,392
Interest revenue                            23,465      123,550     21,730     12,412       64,183       245,340
Interest expense                            33,352       76,056      9,983     10,871       54,013       184,275
Gain on transfer of consumer credit
  card business                            541,288            0          0          0            0       541,288
Unusual charges(4)                         125,072            0          0          0            0       125,072
Income tax expense (benefit)               (24,141)      10,667      4,952       (522)           0        (9,044)
Net income (loss)                          412,452       25,090     11,555     (1,217)           0       447,880
Average managed receivables              1,846,109    6,737,019    744,192    609,199       15,724     9,952,243
Total assets                                     0    1,794,491    340,878    132,573    1,453,478     3,721,420
Capital expenditures                         2,469       10,140        620      3,038       29,093        45,360
Depreciation and amortization                5,600        6,160      1,105      3,615        5,000        21,480
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
Noninterest revenues                   $   587,818   $  130,511   $ 25,481   $ 47,231   $   34,854   $   825,895
Interest revenue                           179,844       94,499     26,372     16,111      120,034       436,860
Interest expense                           130,351       51,825      8,687     11,386      122,309       324,558
Income tax expense (benefit)                16,042        1,107      1,577      6,279         (100)       24,905
Net income                                  22,877       33,316      2,956     11,770          706        71,625
Average managed receivables             11,356,944    3,918,240    507,423    555,633       31,810    16,370,050
Total assets                             3,498,212    1,018,244    275,418    236,510    1,627,531     6,655,915
Capital expenditures                        33,770       26,027      1,340      3,242       14,851        79,230
Depreciation and amortization               22,339        3,534        882      3,321        5,204        35,280
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) Other includes insurance operations and assets/investment activities not
    attributable to other segments.

(2) Unusual charges in 1999 represent charges associated with cost reduction
    initiatives in the first quarter and additional costs associated with
    products exited in the first quarter of 1998.

(3) Other includes a $50 million tax benefit in 1999 related to the former
    consumer credit card business. See Note 19.

(4) Unusual charges in 1998 represent severance and outplacement costs
    associated with workforce reduction, option exercise and other employee
    costs associated with the Consumer Credit Card Transaction/Tender Offer;
    expense associated with exited business/product; asset impairment; and
    equity losses related to exited business/product.

NOTE 17.  SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
OTHER REVENUES                                                    YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                               1999        1998        1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>         <C>
Equity securities gains (losses)(1)                           $30,391    $(41,750)   $(11,426)
Business card interchange income                               33,786      20,741      11,617
Consumer credit card interchange income                             0      11,881      85,208
Consumer credit card overlimit fees                                 0      16,233      46,447
Mortgage other (loss) income                                   (9,686)     22,945       4,535
Leasing other revenues                                         15,399      14,519      25,748
Insurance revenues, net                                         8,206      14,408      37,816
Other                                                           4,387       1,149      18,021
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total other revenues, net                                   $82,483    $ 60,126    $217,966
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) Equity securities gains (losses) represent changes in the fair value and
    realized gains on Advanta Partners investments.

                                       71
<PAGE>   73
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
OPERATING EXPENSES                                               YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                               1999        1998        1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>         <C>         <C>
Salaries and employee benefits                               $123,768    $152,706    $219,954
Marketing                                                      58,671      53,109      53,039
Professional/consulting fees                                   24,244      14,767      38,600
Equipment expense                                              21,039      23,381      37,712
Credit and collection expense                                  20,264      15,715      20,017
Occupancy expense                                              16,347      16,001      23,097
External processing                                            14,936      21,908      43,256
Telephone expense                                              11,091      12,428      21,262
Postage                                                         5,958       8,949      29,039
Amortization of credit card deferred origination costs, net     5,863      22,271      69,344
Credit card fraud losses                                          833       3,194      22,287
Other                                                          34,047      35,335      44,354
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total operating expenses                                   $337,061    $379,764    $621,961
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

NOTE 18.  NET INTEREST INCOME

The following table presents the components of net interest income:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              1999        1998        1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                         <C>         <C>         <C>
Interest income:
  Loans and leases                                          $122,861    $133,998    $ 278,568
  Trading investments                                          6,752      10,374            0
  Investments available for sale                              97,259      79,294      140,636
  Interest component of previously discounted cash flows      19,354      21,674       17,656
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total interest income                              246,226     245,340      436,860
Interest expense:
  Deposits                                                   101,386      85,935      150,164
  Debt                                                        61,940      87,900      161,295
  Other borrowings                                             4,350      10,440       13,099
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total interest expense                             167,676     184,275      324,558
Net interest income                                           78,550      61,065      112,302
Less: Provision for credit losses                            (42,647)    (67,193)    (210,826)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Net interest after provision for credit losses    $ 35,903    $ (6,128)   $ (98,524)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                       72
<PAGE>   74
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 19.  INCOME TAXES

Income tax (benefit) expense consisted of the following components:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                1999        1998       1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>         <C>
Current:
  Federal                                                     $ 15,500    $ 20,254    $ 5,953
  State                                                           (155)      2,470       (651)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total current                                         15,345      22,724      5,302
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred:
  Federal                                                      (65,290)    (44,777)    16,950
  State                                                           (327)     13,009      2,653
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total deferred                                       (65,617)    (31,768)    19,603
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total tax (benefit) expense                         $(50,272)   $ (9,044)   $24,905
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     The reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax to the consolidated
tax expense is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                               1999        1998        1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>         <C>          <C>
Statutory federal income tax                                 $   (159)   $ 153,593    $33,786
State income taxes, net of federal income tax benefit            (313)      10,061      1,302
Net operating losses                                          (49,956)           0          0
Insurance program income (expense)                                112       30,414     (8,707)
Tax credits                                                         0       (7,288)    (5,271)
Compensation limitation                                           175        4,725          0
Transfer of consumer credit card business (see Note 9)              0     (200,494)         0
Nontaxable investment income                                     (596)        (607)      (560)
Other                                                             465          552      4,355
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Tax (benefit) expense                              $(50,272)   $  (9,044)   $24,905
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     Deferred taxes are provided to reflect the estimated future tax effects of
the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and
liabilities and enacted tax laws. The net deferred tax asset (liability) is
comprised of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  DECEMBER 31,
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                1999         1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
Deferred tax liabilities                                      $(102,248)   $(80,566)
Deferred tax assets                                             194,593      44,541
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Net deferred tax asset (liability)                  $  92,345    $(36,025)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                       73
<PAGE>   75
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     A summary of deferred tax assets and liabilities follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  DECEMBER 31,
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                1999        1998
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
Deferred loan fees and costs                                  $ (6,149)   $ (5,167)
Allowance for loan losses                                       22,273      17,415
Net operating loss carryforwards                               182,437           0
Securitization income                                          (41,547)    (32,538)
Leasing income                                                 (19,009)    (16,092)
Deferred compensation                                            9,054      13,192
Noncash unusual charges                                         18,321           0
Other                                                            9,965     (12,835)
Valuation allowance                                            (83,000)          0
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Net deferred tax asset (liability)                  $ 92,345    $(36,025)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     The gain on the Consumer Credit Card Transaction in 1998 was not subject to
income tax and no tax provision was recorded. The Consumer Credit Card
Transaction also resulted in additional book/tax differences, which were
quantified during 1999 in connection with the filing of the 1998 tax return.
Such book/tax differences, when combined with certain less significant recurring
differences, have resulted in net operating loss carryforwards of approximately
$521 million. This amount is net of $96 million carried back to prior years, and
includes $500 million that pertains to losses incurred on the consumer credit
card portfolio after the date of the transaction. Of the total net operating
loss carryforwards, $502 million expire in 2018 and $19 million expire in 2019.
A deferred tax asset of $50 million, net of valuation allowance, resulting from
the net operating loss carryforwards was recorded as an income tax benefit in
the fourth quarter of 1999.

     Advanta has established a valuation allowance against these deferred tax
assets. In establishing the valuation allowance, management considered (1) the
level of expected future taxable income, (2) existing and projected book/tax
differences, (3) tax planning strategies available, and (4) the general and
industry specific economic outlook. Based on this analysis, management believes
the net deferred tax asset will be realized.

     The net deferred federal tax asset (liability) is presented net with
current federal income taxes receivable for financial reporting purposes, and is
included in other assets.

NOTE 20.  UNUSUAL CHARGES

In connection with the Consumer Credit Card Transaction more fully discussed in
Note 9, Advanta made major organizational changes during the first quarter of
1998 to reduce corporate expenses incurred in the past: (a) to support the
business contributed to Fleet LLC in the Consumer Credit Card Transaction, and
(b) associated with the business and products no longer being offered or not
directly associated with its mortgage, business card and leasing units. In
addition, in 1999, Advanta implemented a plan to exit the auto finance business
and to implement cost reduction initiatives throughout the organization
including the consolidation of support functions. Costs associated with these
changes include:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  CHARGED TO   12/31/98             CHARGED TO   12/31/99
                                       ACCRUED     ACCRUAL     ACCRUAL    ACCRUED    ACCRUAL     ACCRUAL
                                       IN 1998     IN 1998     BALANCE    IN 1999    IN 1999     BALANCE
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>        <C>          <C>        <C>       <C>          <C>
Employee costs associated with staff
  reductions                           $      0    $      0    $     0    $ 3,350    $ 2,528     $   822
Employee costs associated with
  Consumer Credit Card
  Transaction/Tender Offer               62,257      58,966      3,291          0        283       3,008
Expenses associated with exited
  businesses/products                    54,115      39,349     14,766     13,363      7,481      20,648
Asset impairment/disposal                 8,700       8,133        567          0        567           0
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total                        $125,072    $106,448    $18,624    $16,713    $10,859     $24,478
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                       74
<PAGE>   76
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

EMPLOYEE COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH STAFF REDUCTIONS

In the first quarter of 1999, Advanta recorded a $3.3 million charge for costs
associated with staff reductions. These expenses included severance and
outplacement costs associated with cost reduction initiatives and the
consolidation of support functions. There were 121 employees severed who were
entitled to benefits. This staff reduction was substantially complete by June
30, 1999.

EMPLOYEE COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH CONSUMER CREDIT CARD TRANSACTION/TENDER OFFER

In connection with the organizational changes in 1998, Advanta incurred
approximately $26.8 million of severance and related costs classified as
employee costs associated with the Consumer Credit Card Transaction/Tender
Offer. These expenses included severance and outplacement costs associated with
the workforce reduction, option exercise and re-measurement costs, and other
employee costs directly attributable to the Consumer Credit Card
Transaction/Tender Offer.

     In connection with these organizational changes, 255 employees who ceased
to be employed by Advanta were entitled to benefits, of which 190 employees were
directly associated with the business contributed to Fleet LLC and 65 employees
were associated with the workforce reduction.

     Additionally, during the first quarter of 1998, Advanta incurred
approximately $35.5 million of other compensation charges. This amount includes
$21.3 million attributable to payments under change of control plans and $14.2
million associated with the execution of the Tender Offer.

EXITED BUSINESSES/PRODUCTS

In the first quarter of 1999, Advanta implemented a plan to cease the
origination of auto loans and recorded a $3.4 million charge for costs
associated with exited businesses/products. The charges included severance and
outplacement costs for 22 employees in the auto origination group, and
professional fees associated with exited businesses/products not directly
associated with the mortgage, business card and leasing units. Advanta completed
the closing of the auto loan origination center and termination of related
employees during the second quarter of 1999. Advanta expects to pay a
substantial portion of the remaining costs during the year ended December 31,
2000.

     During the first quarter of 1998, Advanta implemented a plan to exit
certain businesses and product offerings not directly associated with its
mortgage, business card and leasing units. In connection with this plan,
contractual vendor commitments of approximately $10.0 million associated with
discontinued development and other activities were accrued. Advanta has
substantially completed the settlement of these contractual commitments.

     Advanta also has contractual commitments to certain customers, and
non-related financial institutions that are providing benefits to those
customers, under a product that will no longer be offered and for which no
future revenues or benefits will be received. In 1998, Advanta recorded a charge
of $22.8 million associated with this commitment, and an $8.3 million charge
associated with the write-down of assets associated with this program. In 1999,
an additional charge of $10.0 million was recorded based on a change in the
estimate of total expected costs for exited businesses. Advanta expects to pay a
substantial portion of these costs over the next 36 months. The actions required
to complete this plan include the settlement of contractual commitments and the
payment of customer benefits.

     In connection with the Consumer Credit Card Transaction/Tender Offer and
the other exited business and product offerings, Advanta also incurred $11.5
million of related professional fees and $1.5 million of other expenses related
to these plans.

ASSET IMPAIRMENT/DISPOSAL

In connection with Advanta's plans to reduce corporate expenses and exit certain
business and product offerings, certain assets were identified for disposal and
the carrying costs thereof were written off or written down to estimated
realizable value in 1998 resulting in a charge of $8.7 million. These assets
consisted

                                       75
<PAGE>   77
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

principally of leasehold improvements and various other assets. The disposal of
these assets has been completed.

NOTE 21.  CALCULATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE

The following table shows the calculation of basic earnings per share and
diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               1999        1998        1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>         <C>
Net income                                                    $49,818    $447,880    $ 71,625
  Less: Preferred A dividends                                    (141)       (141)       (141)
  Less: Preferred B dividends                                  (2,661)     (3,549)     (6,409)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income available to common shareholders                       $47,016    $444,190    $ 65,075
  Less: Class A dividends declared                             (2,471)     (2,615)     (7,997)
  Less: Class B dividends declared                             (4,896)     (4,589)    (13,754)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Undistributed earnings                                        $39,649    $436,986    $ 43,324
Basic shares
  Class A                                                       9,057      11,174      18,172
  Class B                                                      14,515      15,500      24,635
  Combined (1)                                                 23,572      26,674      42,807
Options A                                                           1           8          63
Options B                                                         202         103         532
Restricted shares Class A                                          36           0           0
Restricted shares Class B                                         118         138          99
Preferred B                                                         0       1,572           0
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diluted shares
  Class A                                                       9,094      11,182      18,235
  Class B                                                      14,835      17,313      25,266
  Combined (1)                                                 23,929      28,495      43,501
Basic earnings per share
  Class A                                                     $  1.95    $  16.62    $   1.45
  Class B                                                        2.02       16.68        1.57
  Combined (1)                                                   1.99       16.65        1.52
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diluted earnings per share
  Class A                                                     $  1.93    $  15.69    $   1.43
  Class B                                                        1.99       15.73        1.54
  Combined (1)                                                   1.96       15.71        1.50
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) Combined represents a weighted average of Class A and Class B earnings per
    share.

There were 14,211 shares of Advanta's Class B Convertible Preferred Stock
outstanding from January 1, 1999 through September 15, 1999 and 25,000 shares
outstanding during 1997, which were not included in the computation of diluted
earnings per share, because they were antidilutive for those periods. Each share
of Class B Convertible Preferred Stock was mandatorily converted into one share
of Class B Common Stock effective September 15, 1999.

     In 1999, there were 1.2 million restricted shares of Class B Common Stock
outstanding and 1.6 million options to purchase shares of Class B Common Stock
outstanding that were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per
share because they were antidilutive for the period. In 1998, there were 1.1
million restricted shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding and 2.7 million
options to purchase shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding that were not
included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because they were
antidilutive for the period.

                                       76
<PAGE>   78
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 22.  PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

ADVANTA CORP. (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    DECEMBER 31,
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 1999          1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>
ASSETS
Cash                                                          $    4,292    $   17,276
Commercial paper equivalent(1)                                   375,000       440,900
Investments                                                        7,820        20,592
Investments in and advances to bank subsidiaries                 543,276       446,533
Investments in and advances to non-bank subsidiaries             479,020       708,667
Other assets                                                     165,019        89,456
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total assets                                        $1,574,427    $1,723,424
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LIABILITIES
Accrued expenses and other liabilities                        $  100,542    $   37,218
Long-term debt                                                   884,254     1,125,902
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total liabilities                                      984,796     1,163,120
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Preferred stock                                                    1,010         1,010
Common stock                                                         287           267
Other stockholders' equity                                       588,334       559,027
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total stockholders' equity                             589,631       560,304
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total liabilities and stockholders' equity          $1,574,427    $1,723,424
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) Commercial paper equivalent refers to unsecured loans made to Advanta
    National Bank and Advanta Bank Corp. for terms less than 35 days in maturity
    which are not automatically renewable, consistent with commercial paper
    issuance.

     The parent company guarantees certain warehouse financing facilities,
commercial paper conduit facilities, and lease agreements of its subsidiaries.
At December 31, 1999, there were $22.3 million of lease obligations guaranteed
by the parent and $19.1 million of parent guarantees associated with warehouse
and commercial paper conduit financing facilities.

                                       77
<PAGE>   79
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

ADVANTA CORP. (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)
CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              1999        1998         1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                         <C>         <C>          <C>
INCOME:
  Dividends from bank subsidiaries(1)                       $      0    $ 553,715    $      0
  Dividends from non-bank subsidiaries(1)                      2,225        6,300      12,300
  Interest                                                    44,369       78,210      81,656
  Gain on transfer of credit card business                         0       48,944           0
  Other, net                                                  52,510       44,623      33,649
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total income                                        99,104      731,792     127,605
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EXPENSES:
  General and administrative                                  45,638       44,289      69,010
  Interest                                                    67,102       86,557      97,067
  Unusual charges                                              4,561       59,707           0
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total expense                                      117,301      190,553     166,077
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in
  subsidiaries                                               (18,197)     541,239     (38,472)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income tax benefit                                            22,327        8,566      20,677
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income (loss) before equity in undistributed net profit
  (loss) in subsidiaries                                       4,130      549,805     (17,795)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Equity in undistributed net profit (loss)of subsidiaries      45,688     (101,925)     89,420
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                                                  $ 49,818    $ 447,880    $ 71,625
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) Dividends from subsidiaries include only dividends from current year net
    income of subsidiaries. See Parent Company Only Condensed Statements of Cash
    Flows for total dividends received from subsidiaries.

     The Parent Company Only Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity is
the same as the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholder's Equity.

                                       78
<PAGE>   80
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

ADVANTA CORP. (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)
CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            1999         1998         1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>          <C>          <C>
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net income                                                $  49,818    $ 447,880    $  71,625
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used
in) provided by operating activities:
  Equity in net profit of subsidiaries                      (47,913)    (458,090)    (101,719)
  Dividends received from subsidiaries                        2,225      903,831       12,300
  Equity securities gains                                    (1,709)           0            0
  Depreciation and amortization                               2,066        6,880        5,083
  Gain on transfer of consumer credit card business               0      (48,944)           0
  Noncash unusual charges                                         0       11,974            0
  Change in other assets, interest-bearing deposits,
     accrued expenses and other liabilities                 (30,987)    (101,208)     (59,642)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities         (26,500)     762,323      (72,353)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INVESTING ACTIVITIES
  Net change in premises & equipment                         (2,199)       4,793       (8,793)
  Net change in commercial paper equivalents                 65,900     (440,900)           0
  Investments in subsidiaries                               (23,540)    (124,500)           0
  Return of investment from subsidiaries                     39,731      470,000            0
  Purchase of investments available for sale               (851,132)    (471,582)     (87,324)
  Proceeds from sales of investments available for sale       2,702      143,770       49,946
  Proceeds from maturing investments available for sale     850,000      327,200       25,000
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities          81,462      (91,219)     (21,171)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FINANCING ACTIVITIES
  Change in lines of credit                                       0            0      (40,000)
  Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt                  123,529       29,858      536,002
  Payments on redemption of long-term debt                 (365,177)    (294,026)    (359,482)
  Decrease (increase) in affiliate borrowings               187,806      339,822      (26,827)
  Issuance of stock                                              20        5,249       14,000
  Tender Offer                                                    0     (801,606)           0
  Stock buyback                                              (3,955)      (4,549)           0
  ESOP stock purchase                                             0      (12,569)           0
  Cash dividends paid                                       (10,169)     (10,894)     (28,301)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities         (67,946)    (748,715)      95,392
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net (decrease) increase in cash                             (12,984)     (77,611)       1,868
Cash at beginning of period                                  17,276       94,887       93,019
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash at end of period                                     $   4,292    $  17,276    $  94,887
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     In 1999, noncash transactions of the Parent Company included a $4.5 million
assumption of liabilities of subsidiaries and a $43.3 million return of
investment by subsidiaries through forgiveness of advances. In 1998, the noncash
transaction represented capital contributions to subsidiaries through the
forgiveness of advances of $143.5 million.

                                       79
<PAGE>   81
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 23.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The estimated fair values of Advanta's financial instruments are as follows at
December 31:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      1999                        1998
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             CARRYING        FAIR        CARRYING        FAIR
                                              AMOUNT        VALUE         AMOUNT        VALUE
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Financial assets:
  Cash                                      $   29,301    $   29,301    $   16,267    $   16,267
  Federal funds sold                           144,938       144,938       267,400       267,400
  Restricted interest-bearing deposits          93,688        93,688        80,028        80,028
  Trading investments                                0             0       501,563       501,563
  Investments available for sale               748,881       748,881       521,410       521,410
  Loan and lease receivables, net            1,449,624     1,534,106     1,107,427     1,157,618
  Retained interest-only strip                 115,641       115,641       209,096       209,096
  Contractual mortgage servicing rights         92,636        96,736        74,425        77,932
  Subordinated trust assets                    400,148       400,148       291,942       291,942
Financial liabilities:
  Demand and savings deposits               $  248,111    $  248,111    $  185,782    $  185,782
  Time deposits                              1,264,248     1,260,121     1,564,008     1,570,946
  Long-term debt                               788,508       771,560     1,030,147       989,088
  Other borrowings                             409,601       409,601        36,301        36,301
Off-balance sheet financial instruments --
  Asset/(liability):
     Interest rate swaps                    $        0    $   29,511    $        0    $   11,589
     Interest rate caps purchased                1,040         3,137            45           130
     Interest rate caps written                 (1,040)       (3,137)          (45)         (130)
     Put options purchased                        (986)          849             0             0
     Forward contracts                               0         3,867             0           365
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     The fair value of a financial instrument is the current amount that would
be exchanged between willing parties, other than in a forced liquidation. Fair
value is best determined based upon quoted market prices. However, in many
instances, there are no quoted market prices for Advanta's various financial
instruments. In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values
are based on estimates using present value or other valuation techniques. Those
techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the
discount rate and estimates of future cash flows. Accordingly, the fair value
estimates may not be realized in an immediate settlement of the instrument.
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107, "Disclosures about Fair
Value of Financial Instruments," excludes certain financial instruments and all
nonfinancial instruments from its disclosure requirements.

     Advanta used the following methods and assumptions in estimating fair value
disclosures for financial instruments:

CASH, FEDERAL FUNDS SOLD AND RESTRICTED INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSITS

For these short-term instruments, the carrying amount is a reasonable estimate
of the fair value.

INVESTMENTS

The fair values of trading investments and investment securities available for
sale are based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes or estimates using quoted
market prices for similar securities. For investments that are

                                       80
<PAGE>   82
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

not publicly traded, management has made estimates of fair value that consider
several factors including the investees' financial results, conditions and
prospects, and the values of comparable public companies.

LOAN AND LEASE RECEIVABLES, NET

The fair values of loan and lease receivables are estimated using quoted market
prices for securities backed by similar loans, adjusted for differences in loan
characteristics. The fair value for these loans includes the estimated value of
future discounted cash flows estimated as the excess of the weighted average
yield over the aggregate cost of funds plus an estimate of future credit losses
over the life of the receivables.

RETAINED INTEREST-ONLY STRIPS AND CONTRACTUAL MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS

The fair values of retained interest-only strips and contractual mortgage
servicing rights are estimated based on discounted cash flow analyses as
described in Note 1. Management has used the following assumptions in the
estimation of fair values of the retained interest-only strip from Advanta
Mortgage loan securitizations for the years ended December 31:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              1999    1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>     <C>
Assumed constant prepayment rates:
  Fixed rate loans                                              25%     29%
  Variable rate loans                                           37      43
Assumed loss rate (annualized)                                1.38    1.00
Assumed discount rate                                           15      14
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     For purposes of estimating the fair value of contractual mortgage servicing
rights, management has assumed a discount rate of 10% and constant prepayment
rates consistent with the retained interest-only strip assumptions.

SUBORDINATED TRUST ASSETS

Subordinated trust assets earn a variable rate, risk-adjusted return. These
assets are classified as trading securities, and are reported at estimated fair
value.

DEMAND AND SAVINGS DEPOSITS

The fair value of demand deposits, savings accounts, and money market deposits
is the amount payable on demand at the reporting date. This fair value does not
include any benefit that may result from the low cost of funding provided by
these deposits compared to the cost of borrowing funds in the market.

TIME DEPOSITS

The fair value of fixed-maturity certificates of deposit is estimated using
discounted cash flow analyses based on the rates currently offered for deposits
of similar remaining maturities.

LONG-TERM DEBT

The fair value of Advanta's long-term borrowings is estimated using discounted
cash flow analyses based on Advanta's current incremental borrowing rates for
similar types of borrowing arrangements.

OTHER BORROWINGS

The carrying amounts of borrowings under repurchase agreements and other
short-term borrowings maturing within ninety days approximate their fair values.
The other borrowings are all at variable interest rates and therefore the
carrying value approximates a reasonable estimate of the fair value.

                                       81
<PAGE>   83
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

INTEREST RATE SWAPS, INTEREST RATE CAPS, OPTIONS AND FORWARD CONTRACTS

The fair value of interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, options and forward
contracts is the estimated amount that Advanta would pay or receive to terminate
the agreement at the reporting date, taking into account current interest rates
and the current creditworthiness of the counterparty.

COMMITMENTS TO EXTEND CREDIT

There is no market value associated with Advanta's unused commitments to extend
credit, since any fees charged are consistent with the fees charged by other
companies at the reporting date to enter into similar agreements. Unused
commitments to extend credit were $2.6 billion at December 31, 1999 and $2.1
billion at December 31, 1998.

NOTE 24.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

In managing its interest rate risk, Advanta may use derivative financial
instruments. These instruments are used for the express purpose of managing
interest rate exposures and are not used for any trading or speculative
activities.

     The following table summarizes by notional amounts Advanta's derivative
instruments as of December 31:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 1999          1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>
Interest rate swaps                                           $2,975,086    $2,997,912
Interest rate caps written                                       409,278       268,633
Interest rate caps purchased                                     409,278       268,633
Put options purchased                                            156,000             0
Forward contracts                                                565,000       499,000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total                                               $4,514,642    $4,034,178
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     The notional amounts of derivatives do not represent amounts exchanged by
the counterparties and, thus, are not a measure of Advanta's exposure through
its use of derivatives. The amounts exchanged are determined by reference to the
notional amounts and the other terms of the derivatives contracts.

     Credit risk associated with derivatives arises from the potential for a
counterparty to default on its obligations. Advanta limits credit risk by only
transacting with highly creditworthy counterparties, requiring International
Swaps and Derivatives Association agreements for all interest rate swap and
interest rate option contracts, and maintaining collateral agreements with
substantially all counterparties. All derivative counterparties are associated
with organizations having securities rated as investment grade by independent
rating agencies. The Investment Committee, a management committee, controls the
list of eligible counterparties, setting of counterparty limits, and monitoring
of credit exposure. Advanta's credit exposure to derivatives, with the exception
of caps written, is represented by contracts with a positive fair value without
giving consideration to the value of any collateral exchanged (see Note 23). For
caps written, credit exposure does not exist since the counterparty has
performed its obligation to pay Advanta a premium payment.

INTEREST RATE SWAPS

Interest rate swap agreements generally involve the exchange of fixed and
floating rate interest payments without the exchange of the underlying notional
amount on which the interest payments are calculated. Based on its interest rate
sensitivity analyses, Advanta uses interest rate swaps to more effectively
manage the impact of fluctuating interest rates on its noninterest revenues and
cost of funds. In 1999, 1998 and 1997, Advanta used interest rate swaps to
effectively convert fixed rate debt and deposits to a LIBOR-based variable rate
and to effectively convert certain off-balance sheet variable securitizations to
a fixed rate.

                                       82
<PAGE>   84
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table summarizes by notional amounts Advanta's interest rate
swap activity by major category for the periods presented:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          RECEIVE         PAY
                                                         FIXED RATE    FIXED RATE      TOTAL
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>           <C>           <C>
Balance at 12/31/96                                      $  812,835    $  900,609    $1,713,444
  Additions                                                 967,250       472,496     1,439,746
  Net amortization                                                0      (142,894)     (142,894)
  Maturities                                               (136,835)      (10,500)     (147,335)
  Swaptions exercised                                             0      (153,000)     (153,000)
  Terminations                                             (598,250)            0      (598,250)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at 12/31/97                                      $1,045,000    $1,066,711    $2,111,711
  Additions                                                       0     1,948,046     1,948,046
  Net amortization                                           (4,000)     (380,533)     (384,533)
  Maturities                                               (249,000)            0      (249,000)
  Terminations                                              (54,790)     (211,812)     (266,602)
  Contributed to Fleet Credit Card LLC                     (161,710)            0      (161,710)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at 12/31/98                                      $  575,500    $2,422,412    $2,997,912
  Additions                                                 200,000       702,446       902,446
  Net amortization                                                0      (658,666)     (658,666)
  Maturities                                               (141,000)      (66,324)     (207,324)
  Terminations                                              (15,000)      (44,282)      (59,282)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at 12/31/99                                      $  619,500    $2,355,586    $2,975,086
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     The following table discloses Advanta's interest rate swaps by major
category, notional value, weighted average interest rates, and annual maturities
for the periods presented. Variable rates in the table represent the current
LIBOR-based rates.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 BALANCES MATURING IN:
                                          BALANCE AT   --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           12/31/99      2000       2001       2002       2003       2004       2005       2006
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Pay Fixed/Receive Variable:
 Notional Value                           $2,355,586   $353,818   $ 86,476   $137,986   $374,530   $324,348   $334,076   $744,352
 Weighted Average Pay Rate                     5.79%       5.70%      5.30%      5.90%      5.34%      6.23%      5.55%      6.01%
 Weighted Average Receive Rate                 6.47%       6.48%      6.18%      6.40%      6.48%      6.48%      6.48%      6.48%
Receive Fixed/Pay Variable:
 Notional Value                           $ 619,500    $309,000   $250,500   $ 60,000   $      0   $      0   $      0   $      0
 Weighted Average Receive Rate                 6.19%       5.76%      6.63%      6.60%         0%         0%         0%         0%
 Weighted Average Pay Rate                     6.24%       6.28%      6.19%      6.23%         0%         0%         0%         0%

Total Notional Value                      $2,975,086   $662,818   $336,976   $197,986   $374,530   $324,348   $334,076   $744,352
Total Weighted Average Rates on Swaps:
 Pay Rate                                      5.88%       5.97%      5.96%      6.00%      5.34%      6.23%      5.55%      6.01%
 Receive Rate                                  6.41%       6.14%      6.51%      6.46%      6.48%      6.48%      6.48%      6.48%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

INTEREST RATE OPTIONS

Interest rate options, which include caps and floors, are contracts that
transfer, modify or reduce interest rate risk in exchange for the payment of a
premium when the contract is initiated. In exchange for the premium payment,
these contracts require the seller (writer) to pay the purchaser at specified
future dates the amount by which a specified market interest rate exceeds the
cap rate or falls below the floor rate, multiplied against a notional amount.

                                       83
<PAGE>   85
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Advanta purchased interest rate caps as part of certain variable rate
receivable securitizations for credit enhancement purposes. In order to achieve
its desired interest rate sensitivity structure, Advanta has synthetically
altered the interest rate structure on certain off-balance sheet receivable
securitizations by writing interest rate caps to offset the purchased rate caps
attached to them. The premiums received or paid for writing or purchasing the
cap contracts with third parties are included in other assets and are amortized
to noninterest revenues over the life of the contract. Any obligations, which
may arise under these contracts, are recorded in noninterest revenues on an
accrual basis.

PUT OPTIONS

Put options provide the holder the right, but not the obligation, to sell the
underlying financial instrument at a specified exercise or strike price at a
specific point in time. Put options, therefore, protect Advanta from losses in a
rising interest rate environment, but allow for the full appreciation of
underlying assets should interest rates fall. Advanta regularly securitizes and
sells receivables. Advanta may choose to hedge the changes in the market value
of the index on which the securitization is priced, relating to the warehouse
and/or pipeline of receivables anticipated to be securitized, by purchasing put
options on the underlying index. The maximum term of hedges of anticipated loan
sales is seven months; the average term is four months. Premiums paid and gains
and losses on put options are deferred as other liabilities and included in the
measurement of the dollar basis of the loans sold. Deferred gains were $849
thousand and deferred premiums were $986 thousand at December 31, 1999. There
were no put options outstanding at December 31, 1998.

FORWARD CONTRACTS

Forward contracts are commitments to either purchase or sell a financial
instrument at a future date for a specified price and may be settled in cash or
through delivery of the underlying financial instrument. Advanta regularly
securitizes and sells receivables. Advanta may choose to hedge the changes in
the market value of its fixed rate loans and commitments designated for
anticipated securitizations by selling U.S. Treasury securities for forward
settlement. The maximum term of hedges of anticipated loan sales is seven
months; the average term is four months. Gains and losses from forward sales are
deferred as other liabilities and included in the measurement of the dollar
basis of the loans sold. Advanta had deferred gains of $5.9 million at December
31, 1999 and deferred losses of $3.8 million at December 31, 1998.

     Advanta may choose to hedge market value changes on its trading investments
with forward contracts. Gains and losses on forward contracts hedging trading
investments are recognized currently and reported in other revenues with the
gains and losses on trading investments.

                                       84
<PAGE>   86

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Stockholders of Advanta Corp.:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Advanta
Corp. (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and
1998, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
1999. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Advanta
Corp. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States.

                                                             ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
Philadelphia, PA
January 21, 2000

REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING

To the Stockholders of Advanta Corp.:

     The management of Advanta Corp. and its subsidiaries is responsible for the
preparation, content, integrity and objectivity of the financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States and as such must, by
necessity, include amounts based upon estimates and judgments made by
management. The other financial information was also prepared by management and
is consistent with the financial statements.

     Management maintains a system of internal controls that provides reasonable
assurance as to the integrity and reliability of the financial statements. This
control system includes: (l) organizational and budgetary arrangements which
provide reasonable assurance that errors or irregularities would be detected
promptly; (2) careful selection of personnel and communications programs aimed
at assuring that policies and standards are understood by employees; (3) a
program of internal audits; and (4) continuing review and evaluation of the
control program itself.

     The financial statements have been audited by Arthur Andersen LLP,
independent public accountants. Their audits were conducted in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States and considered
Advanta's system of internal controls to the extent they deemed necessary to
determine the nature, timing and extent of their audit tests. Their report is
printed herewith.

<TABLE>
<S>                             <C>                             <C>
/s/ Dennis Alter                /s/ Philip M. Browne            /s/ James L. Shreero
- ----------------------------    ----------------------------    ----------------------------
Chairman of the Board and       Senior Vice President and       Vice President, Finance and
  Chief Executive Officer          Chief Financial Officer        Chief Accounting Officer
</TABLE>

                                       85
<PAGE>   87

SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULES (UNAUDITED)

MATURITY OF TIME DEPOSITS OF $100,000 OR MORE

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              DECEMBER 31,
(IN THOUSANDS)                                                    1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>
Maturity:

  3 months or less                                              $115,171
  Over 3 months through 6 months                                  19,667
  Over 6 months through 12 months                                175,205
  Over 12 months                                                  50,878
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Total                                                 $360,921
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

COMMON STOCK PRICE RANGES AND DIVIDENDS

Advanta's common stock is traded on the National Market tier of The Nasdaq Stock
Market under the symbols ADVNB (Class B non-voting common stock) and ADVNA
(Class A voting common stock). Following are the high, low and closing sale
prices and cash dividends declared for the last two years as they apply to each
class of stock:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                         CASH
                                                                                       DIVIDENDS
QUARTER ENDED:                                            HIGH      LOW      CLOSE     DECLARED
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Class B:
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  March 1998                                             $31.25    $19.69    $21.00      $.076
  June 1998                                               24.25     17.50     19.88       .076
  September 1998                                          20.56      8.25     10.50       .076
  December 1998                                           12.00      5.25     11.06       .076

  March 1999                                             $12.31    $ 7.75    $ 8.94      $.076
  June 1999                                               14.75      7.59     13.56       .076
  September 1999                                          19.13     11.38     11.75       .076
  December 1999                                           15.88     10.44     14.06       .076
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Class A:
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  March 1998                                             $32.75    $21.00    $22.50      $.063
  June 1998                                               26.25     19.25     21.94       .063
  September 1998                                          22.75      9.38     12.88       .063
  December 1998                                           14.88      7.13     13.25       .063

  March 1999                                             $15.19    $10.31    $11.06      $.063
  June 1999                                               18.25      9.63     18.06       .063
  September 1999                                          23.94     14.63     14.63       .063
  December 1999                                           20.38     14.63     18.25       .063
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     At December 31, 1999, Advanta had approximately 805 holders of record of
Class B stock and 315 holders of record of Class A stock.

                                       86
<PAGE>   88
SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULES (UNAUDITED) -- CONTINUED

QUARTERLY DATA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)                                  1999
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              DECEMBER 31,    SEPTEMBER 30,    JUNE 30,    MARCH 31,
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                           <C>             <C>              <C>         <C>
Interest income                                 $ 60,526        $ 61,185       $ 59,201    $ 65,314
Securitization income (loss)                      (2,731)         51,360         41,116      34,769
Other revenues                                    38,678          48,198         55,233      59,674
                                              ------------------------------------------------------
  Total revenues                                  96,473         160,743        155,550     159,757
                                              ------------------------------------------------------
Interest expense                                  39,147          41,935         43,317      43,277
Provision for credit losses                       14,640          10,452          7,407      10,148
Operating expenses                                85,747          82,702         82,179      86,433
Minority interest in income of consolidated
  subsidiary                                       2,220           2,220          2,220       2,220
Unusual charges(2)                                10,000               0              0       6,713
                                              ------------------------------------------------------
  Total expenses                                 151,754         137,309        135,123     148,791
                                              ------------------------------------------------------
Pretax income (loss)                             (55,281)         23,434         20,427      10,966
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                                      $ 16,555(3)     $ 14,178       $ 12,312    $  6,773
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Basic earnings per share
  Class A                                       $    .67        $    .56       $    .48    $    .24
  Class B                                            .68             .57            .50         .26
  Combined(1)                                        .67             .57            .49         .25
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diluted earnings per share
  Class A                                       $    .65        $    .54       $    .48    $    .24
  Class B                                            .66             .56            .49         .26
  Combined(1)                                        .66             .55            .49         .25
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average shares outstanding
Basic
  Class A                                          8,992           8,984          8,976       9,280
  Class B                                         15,619          14,429         14,187      13,807
  Combined(1)                                     24,611          23,413         23,163      23,087
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average shares -- assuming dilution
Diluted
  Class A                                          9,042           9,030          9,009       9,282
  Class B                                         16,097          14,960         14,364      13,896
  Combined(1)                                     25,139          23,990         23,373      23,178
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                       87
<PAGE>   89
SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULES (UNAUDITED) -- CONTINUED

QUARTERLY DATA -- CONTINUED

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)                                  1998
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              DECEMBER 31,    SEPTEMBER 30,    JUNE 30,    MARCH 31,
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                           <C>             <C>              <C>         <C>
Interest income                                 $ 55,514        $ 56,539       $ 53,561    $ 79,726
Securitization income                             49,659          50,489         41,487      20,723
Gain on transfer of consumer credit card
  business                                             0               0              0     541,288
Other revenues                                    57,345          40,254         35,966     121,469
                                              ------------------------------------------------------
  Total revenues                                 162,518         147,282        131,014     763,206
                                              ------------------------------------------------------
Interest expense                                  41,340          39,165         36,226      67,544
Provision for credit losses                       19,972           6,414          6,846      33,961
Operating expenses                                92,419          78,019         72,245     137,081
Minority interest in income of consolidated
  subsidiary                                       2,220           2,220          2,220       2,220
Unusual charges(2)                                     0               0              0     125,072
                                              ------------------------------------------------------
  Total expenses                                 155,951         125,818        117,537     365,878
                                              ------------------------------------------------------
Pretax income                                      6,567          21,464         13,477     397,328
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                                      $  4,597        $ 15,025       $  9,471    $418,787
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Basic earnings per share
  Class A                                       $    .15        $    .57       $    .34    $  11.84
  Class B                                            .17             .58            .35       11.85
  Combined(1)                                        .16             .58            .35       11.84
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diluted earnings per share
  Class A                                       $    .15        $    .56       $    .34    $  11.04
  Class B                                            .17             .58            .35       11.04
  Combined(1)                                        .16             .58            .35       11.04
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average shares outstanding
Basic
  Class A                                          9,374          10,316         10,362      14,798
  Class B                                         13,811          14,166         14,161      20,480
  Combined(1)                                     23,185          24,482         24,523      35,278
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average shares -- assuming dilution
Diluted
  Class A                                          9,377          10,320         10,372      14,822
  Class B                                         13,817          14,194         14,330      23,093
  Combined(1)                                     23,194          24,514         24,702      37,915
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) See Note 1 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2) 1999 amounts included charges associated with cost reduction initiatives in
    the first quarter and additional costs associated with products exited in
    the first quarter of 1998. 1998 amounts included severance and outplacement
    costs associated with workforce reduction, option exercises and other
    employee costs associated with the Consumer Credit Card Transaction/Tender
    Offer; expense associated with exited business/product and asset impairment;
    and equity losses related to exited business/product.

(3) Net income in the fourth quarter of 1999 included a $50 million tax benefit
    related to the former consumer credit card business. See Note 19 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       88
<PAGE>   90
SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULES (UNAUDITED) -- CONTINUED

                   ALLOCATION OF ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
($ IN THOUSANDS)                                                           DECEMBER 31,
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            1999             1998              1997             1996             1995
                                        -------------    -------------    --------------    -------------    -------------
                                        AMOUNT     %     AMOUNT     %      AMOUNT     %     AMOUNT     %     AMOUNT     %
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>       <C>    <C>       <C>    <C>        <C>    <C>       <C>    <C>       <C>
Advanta Mortgage loans(1)               $21,743    52%   $20,092    60%   $  5,822     4%   $ 8,785    10%   $ 3,360     6%
Business cards                           14,663    35      6,916    21       6,899     5      2,643     3        977     2
Leases                                    3,110     7      2,695     8       2,899     2      1,598     2          0     0
Consumer credit cards                         0     0          0     0     118,420    86     76,084    85     36,889    69
Other loans                               2,331     6      3,734    11       3,733     3         74     0     12,268    23
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Total                           $41,847   100%   $33,437   100%   $137,773   100%   $89,184   100%   $53,494   100%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                        COMPOSITION OF GROSS RECEIVABLES

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
($ IN THOUSANDS)                                                      DECEMBER 31,
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  1999                1998                1997                1996                1995
                            ----------------    ----------------    ----------------    ----------------    ----------------
                              AMOUNT      %       AMOUNT      %       AMOUNT      %       AMOUNT      %       AMOUNT      %
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                         <C>          <C>    <C>          <C>    <C>          <C>    <C>          <C>    <C>          <C>
Advanta Mortgage loans(1)   $1,050,478    71%   $  829,819    74%   $  478,433    14%   $  376,260    14%   $  321,711    12%
Business cards                 275,095    19       150,022    13       140,399     4        72,348     3             0     0
Leases                         132,802     9       122,657    11       112,536     4       103,730     4        63,666     2
Consumer credit cards                0     0             0     0     2,579,890    77     2,045,219    78     2,338,280    86
Other loans                     21,930     1        17,862     2        40,978     1        20,835     1         9,276     0
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Total               $1,480,305   100%   $1,120,360   100%   $3,352,236   100%   $2,618,392   100%   $2,732,933   100%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) Includes mortgage loans for all years presented and auto loans beginning in
    1996.

             YIELD AND MATURITY OF INVESTMENTS AT DECEMBER 31, 1999

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
($ IN THOUSANDS)                                                       MATURING
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        AFTER ONE BUT            AFTER FIVE BUT
                             WITHIN ONE YEAR          WITHIN FIVE YEARS         WITHIN TEN YEARS           AFTER TEN YEARS
                         -----------------------   -----------------------   -----------------------   -----------------------
                         MARKET VALUE   YIELD(3)   MARKET VALUE   YIELD(3)   MARKET VALUE   YIELD(3)   MARKET VALUE   YIELD(3)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                      <C>            <C>        <C>            <C>        <C>            <C>        <C>            <C>
U.S. Treasury and other
  U.S. Government
  securities               $17,141        4.68%      $123,303       5.56%       $    0        0.00%      $      0       0.00%
State and municipal
  securities(1)                521        4.70            865       5.05         1,093        6.08            909       5.58
Other(2)                         0        0.00              0       0.00           612        5.49        542,012       6.66
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total investments
  available for sale       $17,662        4.68%      $124,168       5.56%       $1,705        5.87%      $542,921       6.66%
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) Yield computed on a taxable equivalent basis using a statutory rate of 35%.

(2) Equity investments and other securities without a stated maturity are
    excluded from this table.

(3) Yields are computed by dividing annualized interest by the amortized cost of
    the respective investment securities.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.

                                       89
<PAGE>   91

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     The text of the Proxy Statement under the captions "Election of Directors"
and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" are hereby
incorporated by reference, as is the text in Part I of this Report under the
caption, "Executive Officers of the Registrant."

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     The text of the Proxy Statement under the captions "Executive
Compensation," "Compensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation" and
"Election of Directors "-- Committees, Meetings and Compensation of the Board of
Directors", '-- Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation in
Compensation Decisions" and "-- Other Matters" are hereby incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     The text of the Proxy Statement under the captions "Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners" and "Security Ownership of Management" are hereby
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     The text of the Proxy Statement under the captions "Election of
Directors -- Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation in
Compensation Decisions" and "-- Other Matters" are hereby incorporated herein by
reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     The following Financial Statements, Schedules, and Other Information of the
Registrant and its subsidiaries are included in this Form 10-K:

<TABLE>
    <S>          <C>
    (a)(1)       Financial Statements.
    1.           Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1999 and 1998.
    2.           Consolidated Income Statements for each of the three years
                 in the period ended December 31, 1999.
    3.           Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity
                 for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
                 1999.
    4.           Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three
                 years in the period ended December 31, 1999.
    5.           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
    (a)(2)       Schedules.
                 Other statements and schedules are not being presented
                 either because they are not required or the information
                 required by such statements and schedules is presented
                 elsewhere in the financial statements.
</TABLE>

                                       90
<PAGE>   92
<TABLE>
    <S>          <C>
    (a)(3)       Exhibits
    3-a          Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Pre-Effective
                 Amendment No. 1 to the Registrant's Registration Statement
                 on Form S-3 (File No. 33-53475), filed June 10, 1994) , as
                 amended by the Certificate of Designations, Preferences,
                 Rights and Limitations of the Registrant's 6 3/4%
                 Convertible Class B Preferred Stock, Series 1995 (Stock
                 Appreciation Income Linked Securities (SAILS)) (incorporated
                 by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant's Current
                 Report on Form 8-K dated August 15, 1995, as further amended
                 by the Certificate of Designations, Preferences, Rights and
                 Limitations of the Registrant's Series A Junior
                 Participating Preferred Stock (incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 1 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
                 8-A, dated March 17, 1997.
    3-b          By-laws of the Registrant, as amended (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Current Report
                 on Form 8-K dated March 17, 1997).
    3-c          Rights Agreement, dated as of March 14, 1997, by and between
                 the Registrant and the Rights Agent, which includes as
                 Exhibit B thereto the Form of Rights Certificate
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the Registrant's
                 Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated March 17, 1997).
    4-a*         Trust Indenture dated April 22, 1981 between Registrant and
                 Mellon Bank, N.A., (formerly, CoreStates Bank, N.A.), as
                 Trustee, including Form of Debenture.
    4-b          Specimen of Class A Common Stock Certificate and specimen of
                 Class B Common Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 1 of the Registrant's Amendment No. 1 to Form 8
                 and Exhibit 1 to Registrant's Form 8-A, respectively, both
                 dated April 22, 1992).
    4-c          Trust Indenture dated as of November 15, 1993 between the
                 Registrant and The Chase Manhattan Bank (National
                 Association), as Trustee (incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 4 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
                 S-3 (No. 33-50883), filed November 2, 1993).
    4-d          Senior Trust Indenture, dated as of October 23, 1995,
                 between the Registrant and Mellon Bank, N.A., as Trustee
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
                 Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No.
                 33-62601), filed September 13, 1995).
    4-e          Indenture dated as of December 17, 1996 between Advanta
                 Corp. and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as trustee relating to
                 the Junior Subordinated Debentures. (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 4-g to the Registrant's Annual Report
                 on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996).
    4-f          Declaration of Trust dated as of December 5, 1996 of Advanta
                 Capital Trust I. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4-h
                 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                 ended December 31, 1996).
    4-g          Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust dated as of
                 December 17, 1996 for Advanta Capital Trust I. (incorporated
                 by reference to Exhibit 4-I to the Registrant's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996).
    4-h          Series A Capital Securities Guarantee Agreement dated as of
                 December 17, 1996. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4-j
                 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                 ended December 31, 1996).
    9            Inapplicable.
    10-a         Registrant's Stock Option Plan, as amended (incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 10-b to the Registrant's Annual Report
                 on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989).+
    10-b         Amended and Restated Advanta Corp. 1992 Stock Option Plan
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
                 Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                 ended June 30, 1996).+
</TABLE>

                                       91
<PAGE>   93

<TABLE>
<S>           <C>
10-c          Advanta Management Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10-c to the
              Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996).+
10-d*         Application for membership in VISA(R) U.S.A. Inc. and Membership Agreement executed by Colonial
              National Bank USA on March 25, 1983.
10-e*         Application for membership in MasterCard(R) International, Inc. and Card Member License Agreement
              executed by Colonial National Bank USA on March 25, 1983.
10-f*         Indenture of Trust dated May 11, 1984 between Linda Alter, as settlor, and Dennis Alter, as
              trustee.
10-f(i)       Agreement dated October 20, 1992 among Dennis Alter, as Trustee of the trust established by the
              Indenture of Trust filed as Exhibit 10-g (the "Indenture"), Dennis Alter in his individual
              capacity, Linda Alter, and Michael Stolper, which Agreement modifies the Indenture (incorporated
              by reference to Exhibit 10-g(i) to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No.
              33-58660), filed February 23, 1993).
10-g          Agreement dated as of March 5, 1998 between the Registrant and Olaf Olafsson (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10-g to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1997).+
10-h          Advanta Management Incentive Plan with Stock Election (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4-c
              to Amendment No. 1 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 33-33350),
              filed February 21, 1990).+
10-i          Advanta Corp. Executive Deferral Plan (incorporated by reference to the Exhibit 10-j to the
              Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995).+
10-j          Advanta Corp. Non-Employee Directors Deferral Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10-K to
              the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995).+
10-k          Advanta Management Incentive Plan With Stock Election II (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              10-o to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-2 (File No. 33-39343), filed March 8,
              1991).+
10-l          Amended and Restated Advanta Management Incentive Plan With Stock Election III, (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10-l to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1998).+
10-m          Life Insurance Benefit for Certain Key Executives and Directors (filed herewith).+
10-n          Amended and Restated Advanta Management Incentive Plan With Stock Election IV (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10-n to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1998).+
10-o          Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Advanta Partners LP, dated as of October
              1, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10-o to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the year ended December 31, 1996).
10-p          Agreement dated as of January 15, 1996 between the Registrant and William A. Rosoff (incorporated
              by reference to Exhibit 10-u to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1995).+
10-q          Pooling and Servicing Agreement, dated as of June 1, 1996, among Advanta Business Receivables
              Corp., Advanta Financial Corp. and First National Bank of Chicago, as Trustee (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10-q to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1997).
10-r          Agreement dated May 11, 1998 between the Registrant and Philip M. Browne (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10-r to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1998).+
</TABLE>

                                       92
<PAGE>   94
<TABLE>
    <S>          <C>
    10-s         Master Business Receivables Asset-Backed Financing Facility
                 Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1997, by and among Advanta
                 Business Service Corp., Advanta Leasing Receivables Corp.
                 III and The Chase Manhattan Bank (incorporated by reference
                 to Advanta Business Services Corp.'s Registration Statement
                 on Form S-1 (File No. 333-38575).
    10-t         Contribution Agreement, dated as of October 28, 1997, by and
                 between Advanta Corp. and Fleet Financial Group
                 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (c)(2) to the
                 Registrant's Schedule 13E-4, dated January 20, 1998), as
                 amended by the First Amendment to the Contribution
                 Agreement, dated as of February 10, 1998, by and among
                 Advanta Corp., Fleet Financial Group and Fleet Credit Card,
                 LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the
                 Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed March 6,
                 1998).
    10-u         Agreement dated July 27, 1998 between the Registrant and
                 George O. Deehan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10-u
                 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                 ended December 31, 1998).+
    10-v         Commercial Lease, dated September 28, 1995, by and between
                 Draper Park North, L.C. and Advanta Financial Corp., as
                 amended January 31, 1996 and May 20, 1996 (filed herewith).
    10-w         Lease Agreement, dated August 27, 1997 between San Diego
                 Development #1, LLC and Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA, as
                 amended October 20, 1998 (filed herewith).
    10-x         Amended and Restated Sale and Servicing Agreement, dated as
                 of August 31, 1999, among Advanta Home Equity Loan Owner
                 Trust 1998-MS1, as Issuer, Advanta Conduit Receivables Inc.,
                 as Depositor, Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA, Advanta National
                 Bank and Advanta Bank Corp., as Loan Originators, Advanta
                 Corp., as Transfer Obligor and Bankers Trust Company of
                 California, N.A., as Indenture Trustee (filed herewith).
    11           Inapplicable.
    12           Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges (filed
                 herewith).
    13           Inapplicable.
    16           Inapplicable.
    18           Inapplicable.
    21           Subsidiaries of the Registrant (filed herewith).
    22           Inapplicable.
    23           Consent of Independent Public Accountants (filed herewith).
    24           Powers of Attorney (included on the signature page hereof).
    27           Financial Data Schedule (filed herewith).
    28           Inapplicable.
    99           Inapplicable.
</TABLE>

- ---------------
*   Incorporated by reference to the Exhibit with corresponding number
    constituting part of the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-2
    (No. 33-00071), filed on September 4, 1985.

+   Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

     1.  A Report on Form 8-K was filed by the Company on October 25, 1999
regarding the resignation of one of the Company's executive officers.

     2.  A Report on Form 8-K was filed by the Company on October 26, 1999
regarding consolidated earnings of the Company and its subsidiaries for the
fiscal quarter ended September 30, 1999. Summary earnings and balance sheet
information as of that date were filed with such report.

     3.  A Report on Form 8-K was filed by the Company on November 30, 1999
regarding the Company's earnings guidance for the year 2000.

                                       93
<PAGE>   95

                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          Advanta Corp.

                                          By:     /s/ WILLIAM A. ROSOFF
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             William A. Rosoff, President and
                                             Vice Chairman of the Board

Dated: March 20, 2000

     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the undersigned does hereby
constitute and appoint Dennis Alter, William A. Rosoff, Philip M. Browne, James
L. Shreero and Elizabeth H. Mai, or any of them (with full power to each of them
to act alone), his or her true and lawful attorney in-fact and agent, with full
power of substitution, for him or her and on his or her behalf to sign, execute
and file an Annual Report on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999 relating to
Advanta Corp. and any or all amendments thereto, with all exhibits and any and
all documents required to be filed with respect thereto, with the Securities and
Exchange Commission or any regulatory authority, granting unto such
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do
and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in
and about the premises in order to effectuate the same as fully to all intents
and purposes as he or she might or could do if personally present, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that such attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of
them, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done.

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities indicated on the 20th day of March, 2000.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                   NAME                                TITLE
                   ----                                -----
<C>                                         <S>
             /s/ DENNIS ALTER               Chairman of the Board and
- ------------------------------------------  Chief Executive Officer
               Dennis Alter

          /s/ WILLIAM A. ROSOFF             President and Vice Chairman
- ------------------------------------------  of the Board
            William A. Rosoff

           /s/ PHILIP M. BROWNE             Senior Vice President and
- ------------------------------------------  Chief Financial Officer
             Philip M. Browne

           /s/ JAMES L. SHREERO             Vice President and Chief
- ------------------------------------------  Accounting Officer
             James L. Shreero

           /s/ ARTHUR P. BELLIS             Director
- ------------------------------------------
             Arthur P. Bellis

              /s/ MAX BOTEL                 Director
- ------------------------------------------
                Max Botel

        /s/ WILLIAM C. DUNKELBERG           Director
- ------------------------------------------
          William C. Dunkelberg

           /s/ DANA BECKER DUNN             Director
- ------------------------------------------
             Dana Becker Dunn
</TABLE>

                                       94
<PAGE>   96

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                   NAME                                TITLE
                   ----                                -----
<C>                                         <S>
            /s/ ROBERT C. HALL              Director
- ------------------------------------------
              Robert C. Hall

          /s/ JAMES E. KSANSNAK             Director
- ------------------------------------------
            James E. Ksansnak

            /s/ RONALD LUBNER               Director
- ------------------------------------------
              Ronald Lubner

            /s/ OLAF OLAFSSON               Director
- ------------------------------------------
              Olaf Olafsson

           /s/ MICHAEL STOLPER              Director
- ------------------------------------------
             Michael Stolper
</TABLE>

                                       95
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.M
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>LIFE INSURANCE BENEFIT KEY EXECUTIVES & DIRECTORS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10-m

As a taxable executive benefit, the Company pays the premiums for life insurance
policies on the lives of non-employee Directors and certain key executives. The
executive or Board member has the right to designate the beneficiary under the
applicable life insurance policy. Messrs. Alter and Rosoff are each covered by a
$5,000,000 policy. Mr. Deehan is covered by a $1,000,000 policy. Each
non-employee Director is covered by a $500,000 policy. All of the life insurance
policies are owned by the Company. Upon termination of employment, each
executive is entitled to acquire the insurance policy from the Company upon
payment to the Company of an amount equal to the cash value of the policy at
that time. The policies insuring the non-employee Directors are term life
insurance policies, on which there is no build-up in cash value.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.V
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>COMMERCIAL LEASE 9/28/95 DRAPER PARK NORTH
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                            10-V

                            SECOND AMENDMENT TO LEASE

         THIS SECOND AMENDMENT TO LEASE ("2ND AMENDMENT") dated this 20th DAY OF
MAY, 1996, is entered into by and between DRAPER PARK NORTH, L.C., a Utah
Limited Liability Company ("Landlord"), and ADVANTA FINANCIAL CORP., a Utah
corporation ("Tenant").

                                  WITNESSETH:

         WHEREAS, Landlord and Tenant entered into a Lease dated September 28,
1995, ("Lease") which is incorporated herein by reference;

         WHEREAS, Landlord and Tenant entered into a First Amendment to Lease
dated January 31, 1996 ("1ST Amendment") which is incorporated herein by
reference; and

         WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend certain terms and
conditions of the Lease as specifically indicated in this 2ND Amendment.
However, unless specifically amended herein, all terms and conditions of the
Lease and 1ST Amendment remain in full force and effect;

         NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises, representations
and covenants contained herein, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows.

         1. The recitals contained herein are hereby incorporated by reference.

         2. Article 1(a) and 1(b) shall be replaced in its entirety by the
following:

         (a) Landlord hereby leases to Tenant, and Tenant hereby leases from
Landlord, for the term and subject to the terms and conditions herein, to each
and all of which Landlord and Tenant hereby mutually agree, those certain
Occupied and Unoccupied premises (collectively "Premises", unless otherwise
specifically noted), as identified on Exhibit A attached hereto, which includes
35,822 RENTABLE SQUARE FEET OF OCCUPIED PREMISES (34,090 Useable; approx. 5.08%
load factor), as determined by final space plan. The location of the Premises is
commonly known as: 11850 Election Dr., Draper, UT 84020.

         (b) Tenant shall also have the right herein to lease AN ADDITIONAL
14,803 RENTABLE SQUARE FEET OF "UNOCCUPIED PREMISES" (14,088 Useable; 5.08% load
factor), as more specifically outlined in Article 4(a)(ii) herein. Finally,
Tenant shall have a "Right of First Refusal" to further add to the Premises and
Unoccupied Premises identified in this Lease, provided that such Right of First
Refusal applies only to vacant and unrented space in the same building as the
Premises and further provided that Tenant execute within five (5) business days,
of written notice from Landlord, a lease for additional space containing the
same terms and conditions which have been agreed to by the prospective tenant
other than Tenant (Advanta).
<PAGE>   2
         3. Article 2(a). Initial Term is replaced in its entirety by the
following:

         (a) Initial Term. The Lease term shall be five (5) years and shall
commence MAY 1, 1996 ("Commencement Date"). However, if Landlord fails to
deliver possession within thirty (30) days of the Commencement Date, Tenant
shall have the right to terminate this Lease without any further liability to
Landlord or Tenant, in which event Landlord shall refund to Tenant within sixty
(60) days any advanced Rents and Security Deposit paid by Tenant.

         4. Article 4(a)(i) and (ii) shall be replace in its entirety by the
following:

                  (i) BASE RENT FOR OCCUPIED PREMISES. Base Rent for Occupied
         Premises shall be $ 2,606,050.50, ($14.55 PER SQ. FT. X 35,822 RENTABLE
         SQ. FT. X 5 YRS.), payable as follows: $43,434.18 PER MONTH payable in
         advance each month on or before the 1ST day of each month during the
         duration of the Lease, with the first such monthly rental payments
         being due upon the execution of the Lease. Base Rent for Occupied
         Premises includes $3.30 per sq. ft. for Operating Expenses as more
         specifically defined in Article 7 herein.

                  (ii) BASE RENT FOR UNOCCUPIED PREMISES. Further, in order to
         accommodate Tenant's potential need for additional space, Tenant shall
         have the option to rent an additional 14,803 Rentable sq. ft. upon
         payment of the Base Rent for Unoccupied Premises. Base Rent for
         Unoccupied Premises shall be $ 546,230.70 ($7.38 PER SQ. FT. X 14,803
         UNOCCUPIED SQ. FT. X 5 YRS.), payable as follows: $ 9,103.85 PER MONTH
         payable in advance each month on or before the 1ST day of each month
         during the duration of the Lease, with the FIRST month rental payment
         being due upon execution of the Lease, subject to the following:

                           1. Tenant shall receive a discount of fifty (50%)
                  percent of the Base Rent for Unoccupied Premises only for
                  months 2 - 5 of the Lease.

                           2. Base Rent for Unoccupied Premises includes $1.86
                  per sq. ft. for Operating Expenses as more specifically
                  defined in Article 7 herein, which amount includes a
                  mutually-agreed reduction to Tenant for anticipated Operating
                  Expenses not applicable to such Unoccupied Premises.

                           3. Tenant may terminate its option rights for
                  additional Premises herein by providing 120 days written
                  notice to Landlord, following which Tenant's obligation to pay
                  further Base Rent of Unoccupied Premises shall cease herein.

                           4. Upon exercising Tenant's option herein, Tenant may
                  possess the Unoccupied Premises pursuant to the same terms and
                  conditions of the Lease (i.e.; Tenant Improvements, Moving
                  Allowance, Base Rent for Occupied Premises, 6 non-reserved
                  parking stalls per 1,000 rentable sq. ft. of Occupied
                  Premises, etc.) in proportion to the balance of time remaining
                  on the initial term of the Lease.

                                        2
<PAGE>   3
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Lease dated the day
and year first above written.

TENANT,                                 LANDLORD,

ADVANTA FINANCIAL CORP.                 DRAPER PARK NORTH, L.C.



By:  /s/ John L. Richards                 By:  /s/ Scott M. Waldron
     --------------------                      --------------------
     John L. Richards, President               Scott M. Waldron, Manager

                                       3
<PAGE>   4
                            FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE

         THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE ("AMENDMENT") dated this 31st DAY OF
JANUARY, 1996, is entered into by and between DRAPER BUSINESS PARK, L.C., a Utah
Limited Liability Company ("Landlord"), and ADVANTA FINANCIAL CORP., a Utah
corporation ("Tenant").

                                  WITNESSETH:

         WHEREAS, Landlord and Tenant entered into a Lease dated September 28th,
1995, ("Lease") which is incorporated herein by reference; and

         WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend certain terms and
conditions of the Lease as specifically indicated in this Amendment. However,
unless specifically amended herein, all terms and conditions of the Lease remain
in full force and effect;

         NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises, representations
and covenants contained herein, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows.

         1. The recitals contained herein are hereby incorporated by reference.

         2. Article 2(a). Initial Term is replaced in its entirety by the
following:

         (a) Initial Term. The Lease term shall be five (5) years and shall
commence APRIL 15, 1996 ("Commencement Date"). In order to allow Tenant's
possession by the Commencement Date, the Premises shall be ready by APRIL 1,
1996, for systems and furniture installation by Tenant. In the event that the
Premises is not ready for systems and furniture installation by APRIL 1, 1996,
Landlord shall provide one (1) day of free Base Rent for each day the Premises
are not ready, provided that Landlord, its agents or employees, is solely or
substantially the cause of such delay. However, if Landlord fails to deliver
possession within thirty (30) days of the Commencement Date, Tenant shall have
the right to terminate this Lease without any further liability to Landlord or
Tenant, in which event Landlord shall refund to Tenant within sixty (60) days
any advanced Rents and Security Deposit paid by Tenant.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Lease dated the day
and year first above written.

TENANT,                                 LANDLORD,

ADVANTA FINANCIAL CORP.                 DRAPER PARK NORTH, L.C.



By:  /s/ John L. Richards                 By:  /s/ Scott M. Waldron
     --------------------                      --------------------
     John L. Richards, President               Scott M. Waldron, Manager
<PAGE>   5
                                COMMERCIAL LEASE

         THIS LEASE dated this 28th DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 1995, is entered into by
and between DRAPER PARK NORTH, L.C., a Utah Limited Liability Company
("Landlord"), and ADVANTA FINANCIAL CORP., a Utah corporation ("Tenant").

1. PREMISES.

         (a) Landlord hereby leases to Tenant, and Tenant hereby leases from
Landlord, for the term and subject to the terms and conditions herein, to each
and all of which Landlord and Tenant hereby mutually agree, those certain
Occupied and Unoccupied premises (collectively "Premises", unless otherwise
specifically noted), highlighted on Exhibit A attached hereto, which include
APPROXIMATELY 35,000 RENTABLE SQUARE FEET OF OCCUPIED PREMISES (the exact square
footage and load factor shall be determined by final space plan; said square
footage shall not be less than 35,000 square feet). The location of the Premises
is commonly known as: 11850 Election Dr., Draper, UT 84020.

         (b) Tenant shall also have the right herein to lease AN ADDITIONAL
APPROXIMATE 15,000 SQUARE FEET OF "UNOCCUPIED PREMISES" as more specifically
outlined in Article 4(a)(ii) herein. Finally, Tenant shall have a "Right of
First Refusal" to further add to the Premises and Unoccupied Premises identified
in this Lease, provided that such Right of First Refusal applies only to vacant
and unrented space in the same building as the Premises and further provided
that Tenant execute within five (5) business days, of written notice from
Landlord, a lease for the additional space containing the same terms and
conditions which have been agreed to by the prospective tenant other than Tenant
(Advanta).

         (c) For purposes of this Lease, the Premises shall be measured in
accordance with the Building Owners and Management Association (BOMA) Method,
American National Standard (ANSI Z65.1-1980, reaffirmed 1989) of floor
measurement. Landlord shall provide, upon Tenant's request, the calculations
which show how the Total Rentable Area of the Building and Rentable and Useable
Area of the Premises were derived.

         (d) In addition, the Premises shall include the appurtenant right to
use, in common with others, the site, parking and landscaped areas. Landlord
shall provide Tenant 6 NON-RESERVED PARKING STALLS PER 1,000 RENTABLE SQ. FT. OF
OCCUPIED PREMISES (approximately 210 non-reserved parking stalls at the
Commencement Date of this Lease) in the adjacent parking lots of the Premises;
one (1) of the above parking stalls to be reserved stalls per each 4,500 square
feet of Occupied Premises designated by Tenant.

         (e) Acceptance of Premises. Unless otherwise notified by Tenant within
thirty (30) days of taking possession, by entry hereunder Tenant accepts the
Premises as being in the condition in which Landlord is obligated to deliver the
Premises. Tenant shall at the end of the term and any extension herein surrender
to Landlord the Premises and all alterations, additions and improvements thereto
in the same condition as when received; ordinary wear and tear, damage by fire,
earthquake, or act of God excepted. Landlord has no liability and has made no
representation to alter, improve, repair, or paint the Premises or any part
thereof, except as specified in Article 2(c) & 6 herein.
<PAGE>   6
         (f) Landlord understands and agrees that Tenant intends to be open for
regular business during the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Monday through
Saturday. In addition, Tenant shall have 24-hour access to the Premises.

2. TERM, OPTION, TENANT IMPROVEMENTS.

         (a) Initial Term. The Lease term shall be five (5) years and shall
commence FEBRUARY 15, 1996 ("Commencement Date"). In order to allow Tenant's
possession by the Commencement Date, the Premises shall be ready by FEBRUARY 1,
1996, for systems and furniture installation by Tenant. In the event that the
Premises is not ready for systems and furniture installation by February 1,
1996, Landlord shall provide one (1) day of free Base Rent for each day the
Premises are not ready, provided that Landlord, its agents or employees, is
solely or substantially the cause of such delay. However, if Landlord fails to
deliver possession within thirty (30) days of the Commencement Date, Tenant
shall have the right to terminate this Lease without any further liability to
Landlord or Tenant, in which event Landlord shall refund to Tenant within sixty
(60) days any advanced Rents and Security Deposit paid by Tenant.

         (b) Option. Provided that Tenant is not in default under this Lease,
within one-hundred eighty (180) days of expiration of this Lease or any
extension period herein and by written notice to Landlord, Tenant shall have the
right to renew this Lease for three (3) additional periods of two (2) years
each. Tenant shall possess the Premises during the option period upon the same
terms and conditions of this Lease, except that Base Rent under Article 4(a)
herein will be adjusted for the option period(s) by the proportionate increase
in the Consumer Price Index (CPI), using the Commencement Date of this Lease as
the base period. Base Rent during any option period(s) shall never decrease,
even if the CPI decreases.

         (c) Tenant Improvements, Space Planning and Moving Allowance. At
execution of this Lease, Landlord shall commence the building design,
construction and installation of agreed-upon Tenant Improvements requested by
Tenant ("Tenant Improvements"). Landlord shall provide Tenant $21.00 PER
RENTABLE SQUARE FOOT OF OCCUPIED PREMISES (approximately $735,000) for Tenant
Improvements, regardless of the actual costs thereof. It is understood and
agreed that Tenant is solely responsible for any costs of Tenant Improvements
above $21.00 per rentable sq. ft. of Occupied Premises. Any unexpended Tenant
Improvements allowance shall be refunded to Tenant on a prorata basis over the
Lease term. Tenant shall have the right to review and approve the bids for
Tenant Improvements. The Tenant Improvements shall include all improvements to
the Premises, but exclude, at no cost to Tenant, those items specifically the
responsibility of Landlord as identified in the Base Building Improvements,
incorporated herein and attached hereto as Exhibit B. LANDLORD SHALL FURTHER
PROVIDE TENANT $1.50 PER RENTABLE SQ. FT OF OCCUPIED PREMISES FOR MOVING
ALLOWANCE UPON TENANT'S TAKING OCCUPANCY, REGARDLESS OF TENANT'S ACTUAL COST,
WHICH SHALL BE PAID TO TENANT WITHIN SIXTY (60) DAYS OF THE COMMENCEMENT DATE.

         (d) Substantial Completion of Tenant Improvements. The Premises shall
be deemed complete upon substantial completion. "Substantial Completion" shall
mean when (i) installation of Tenant Improvements has occurred to Tenant's
reasonable satisfaction, (ii) building services are accessible to the Premises,
(iii) Landlord's Architect/Contractor shall have issued a Certificate of
Substantial Completion with respect to Premises or that portion of the Building

                                        2
<PAGE>   7
within which they are contained, whether or not Substantial Completion of the
building itself shall has occurred, and (iv) issuance of a Certificate of
Occupancy. Substantial Completion shall be deemed to have occurred
notwithstanding a requirement to complete non-substantial "punchlist" work.
Landlord shall use its best efforts to advise Tenant of Substantial Completion
at least 30 days prior to such date, but failure to give such notice shall not
constitute a default by Landlord.

3. NON-OCCUPANCY OF IMPROVED SPACE.

         In the event Tenant does not occupy the Premises and fails to pay Rents
as required in Article 4 of this Lease, all reasonable and verifiable Tenant
Improvements become due and payable upon invoicing by Landlord. Further, such
invoicing by Landlord does not waive any other rights or remedies Landlord may
have against Tenant for failure to occupy.

4. RENT.

         (a) Base Rent.

                  (i) BASE RENT FOR OCCUPIED PREMISES. Base Rent for Occupied
         Premises shall be approximately $2,546,250.00, ($14.55 PER SQ. FT. X
         35,000 RENTABLE SQ. FT. AND BASE RENT OF OCCUPIED PREMISES SHALL BE
         DETERMINED BY THE FINAL SPACE PLAN), payable as follows: $42,437.50 PER
         MONTH payable in advance each month on or before the 1st day of each
         month during the duration of the Lease, with the first such monthly
         rental payments being due upon the execution of the Lease. Base Rent
         for Occupied Premises includes $3.30 per sq. ft. for Operating Expenses
         as more specifically defined in Article 7 herein.

                  (ii) BASE RENT FOR UNOCCUPIED PREMISES. Further, in order to
         accommodate Tenant's potential need for additional space, Tenant shall
         have the option to rent an additional 15,000 square feet of space upon
         payment of the Base Rent for Option Premises. Base Rent for Unoccupied
         Premises shall be APPROXIMATELY $553,500.00, $661,500.00, ($7.38 PER
         SQ. FT. X 15,000 UNOCCUPIED SQ. FT. APPROXIMATELY; THE EXACT SQ. FT.
         AND BASE RENT SHALL BE DETERMINED BY THE FINAL SPACE PLAN), payable as
         follows: $9,225 PER MONTH payable in advance each month on or before
         the 1st day of each month during the duration of the Lease, with the
         FIRST month rental payment being due upon execution of the Lease,
         subject to the following:

                           1. Tenant shall receive a discount of fifty percent
                  (50%) of the Base Rent for Unoccupied Premises only for months
                  2 - 5 of the Lease.

                           2. Base Rent for Unoccupied Premises includes $1.86
                  per sq. ft. for Operating Expenses as more specifically
                  defined in Article 7 herein, which amount includes a
                  mutually-agreed reduction to Tenant for anticipated Operating
                  Expenses not applicable to such Unoccupied Premises.

                                        3
<PAGE>   8
                           3. Tenant may terminate its option rights for
                  additional Premises herein by providing 120 days written
                  notice to Landlord, following which Tenant's obligation to pay
                  further Base Rent of Unoccupied Premises shall cease herein.

                           4. Upon exercising Tenant's option herein, Tenant may
                  possess the Unoccupied Premises pursuant to the same terms and
                  conditions of the Lease (i.e.; Tenant Improvements, Moving
                  Allowance, Base Rent for Occupied Premises, 6 non-reserved
                  parking stalls per 1,000 rentable sq. ft. of Occupied
                  Premises, etc.) in proportion to the balance of time remaining
                  on the initial term of the Lease.

                  (iii) Any partial months shall be prorated accordingly. All
         Base Rent for Occupied Premises, Base Rent for Unoccupied Premises, and
         Additional Rent (collectively "Rents") shall be paid as follows, unless
         otherwise directed in writing: Draper Park North, L.C.; Attn: Scott
         Waldron; 5200 South Main; Murray, UT 84107

         (b) Additional Rent. All obligations payable by Tenant under this Lease
other than Base Rent are called "Additional Rent". Unless otherwise provided,
Additional Rent shall be paid with the next monthly installment of Base Rent
upon invoicing from Landlord.

         (c) Interest, Late Charges, Costs and Attorneys' Fees. If Tenant fails
to pay within ten (10) days of the date due any Rents which Tenant is obligated
to pay under this Lease, the unpaid amount shall bear interest at ten (10%)
percent per annum. Tenant acknowledges that any late payments of Rents shall
cause Landlord to lose the use of that money and incur costs and expenses not
contemplated under this Lease, including without limitation administrative,
collection and accounting costs, the exact amount of which is difficult to
ascertain. Therefore, in addition to interest, any payments not received by
Landlord within ten (10) days from the date it is due, Tenant shall also pay
Landlord a late charge equal to five (5%) percent of the late Rents. Further,
as Additional Rent, Tenant shall be liable to Landlord for litigation or other
enforcement proceeding costs and attorneys' fees actually and reasonably
incurred as a result of late payments or non-payments. Acceptance of any
interest, late charge, costs or attorneys' fees shall not constitute a waiver of
any default by Tenant nor prevent Landlord from exercising any other rights or
remedies under this Lease or at law.

5. USE.

         (a) The Premises shall be used for banking (including but not limited
to retail banking), general office and warehouse, assembly, equipment, testing
and development, and distribution purposes and no other, unless consented to in
writing by Landlord, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld. Tenant
shall not do or permit to be done in or about the Premises anything which is
prohibited by or in any way in conflict with (in the case of hazardous
materials, Tenant shall notify Landlord of any such materials and shall ensure
that any such hazardous material is property controlled, safeguarded, and
disposed of) any and all laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations now
in force or which may hereafter be enacted or

                                        4
<PAGE>   9
promulgated or which is prohibited by the standard form of fire insurance
policy, or which will increase the existing rate of or affect any fire or other
insurance upon the Building or any of its contents, or cause a cancellation of
any insurance policy covering the Building or any part thereof or any of its
contents. Tenant shall not do or permit anything to be done in or about the
Premises which will in any way violate Rules or Regulations reasonably
promulgated by Landlord throughout this Lease, obstruct or interfere with the
rights of other tenants, or use or allow the Premises to be used for any
improper, immoral, unlawful or objectionable purpose, nor shall Tenant cause,
maintain or permit any nuisance, in, on or about the Premises or commit or
suffer to be committed any waste in, on or about the Premises.

         Landlord agrees to disclose to Tenant, or Tenant's agent, any
information known by Landlord regarding the condition of the Premises, including
but not limited to, relevant soil conditions, presence of hazardous or
contaminated substances, PCB transformers, or other toxic substances.

         (b) Tenant shall not use the name of the Building in which the Premises
are located, in connection with any business carried on in said Premises (except
as Tenant's address) without written consent of Landlord.

         (c) Tenant shall not manufacture, assemble or store materials inside
the common areas outside of Building.

6.       LANDLORD'S SERVICES.

         Landlord, at its sole expense, is only responsible to maintain the roof
and structural elements of the Premises, including the party wall. All other
repairs, maintenance, insurance, taxes and property management for the Premises,
the building(s) and common areas shall be provided by Landlord and be the
responsibility of Landlord, but shall be reimbursed by Tenant through payment of
Operating Expenses as more fully outlined in Article 7 herein.

7.       OPERATING EXPENSES - REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE, INSURANCE, TAXES AND
         PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (EXCLUDES ELECTRIC AND GAS).

         Since the Premises is part of a larger building or group of buildings
having common expenses and needs, Tenant agrees to pay for Operating Expenses as
part of Base Rent $3.30 per rentable square foot per year for Occupied Premises
and $1.86 per rentable square foot per year for Unoccupied Premises. Further,
Tenant agrees to pay as Base Rent any allowed Operating Expenses Escalation as
more specifically defined herein, subject to the Cap as provided for in Article
7(b)(iv) herein. For purposes of this Lease, the following definitions, terms
and conditions apply:

         (a) Definitions.

                  "Operating Expenses" - Operating Expenses include the expenses
         for all reasonable and necessary repairs, maintenance, insurance, taxes
         and property

                                       5
<PAGE>   10
*management for the operation and management of the Premises and the building(s)
and common areas of Draper Park North, L.C. For purposes of this Lease,
Operating Expenses specifically excludes electric and gas expenses which are the
sole responsibility and cost of the Tenant.

         "Operating Expenses Escalation" - Operating Expenses Escalation allows
the Landlord to recover increases, subject to the Cap as explained herein, in
Operating Expenses (attributable to the Premises, the building(s) and common
areas of Draper Park North, L.C.) by increasing prorata the rate (i.e., $3.30
per sq. ft for Occupied Premises and $1,86 per sq. ft. for Unoccupied Premises)
for Operating Expenses. Operating Expenses Escalation is the difference between
Tenant's prorata share of the Operating Expenses for the Base Year and Tenant's
prorata share of Operating Expenses for the calendar year in question. Operating
Expenses Escalation does not include Real Estate Taxes.

         "Real Estate Taxes" means real estate taxes levied or assessed against
the Premises, building(s) and common areas as finally determined to be legally
payable by legal proceedings or otherwise after taking into account any
available discount, excluding any interest or penalty for late payment and any
transfer, sales, use, or rent taxes. "Special Assessments" may be included with
Real Estate Taxes to the extent that the Special Assessment benefits all tenants
of a building(s) equally in proportion to each tenant's rentable sq. ft in the
building(s); however, excluding any special assessment incurred or paid by
Landlord in lieu of a capital expenditure.

         "Real Estate Taxes Escalation" - Real Estate Taxes Escalation allows
the Landlord to recover increases in Real Estate Taxes (attributable to the
Premises, the building(s) and common areas of the Draper Park North, L.C.) by
passing through a prorata share of such tax increases.

         "Prorata Share" - Operating Expenses Escalation and Real Estate Taxes
Escalation shall be calculated to establish a Prorata Share for each tenant of
Draper Park North, L.C. by dividing the sq. ft. of each tenant's Premises by
the total rentable sq. ft. of all tenants' Premises.

(b)      Operating Expenses Escalation.

         (i) Operating Expenses Escalation is intended to assure that Tenant
pays for Tenant's share of all inflationary-type increases in the costs of
operating and maintaining the Premises, building(s) and common areas over the
costs of the Base Year (as hereinafter defined). For purposes of Operating
Expenses Escalation, "Base Year" means calendar year 1996. In addition to the
Base Rent, Tenant shall pay the Operating Expenses Escalation (beginning January
1997 as more fully described herein).

                  In Landlord's and Tenant's mutual and reasonable discretion,
Operating Expenses for the Base Year shall be adjusted, as necessary, to a level
of 95% occupied

                                        6
<PAGE>   11
Landlord's building(s) in Draper Park North at cost levels for an entire year.
This adjustment shall include: (a) when building systems are under warranty
during the Base Year, an adjustment for the cost of service contracts and other
expenses that would have been incurred in the absence of such warranties; (b) an
adjustment for all other expenses that are not incurred if the Building is new
and start-up discounts or similar savings have been achieved; and (c)
adjustments for all other atypical costs that occur or do not occur during the
Base Year other than those costs which would occur in the Base Year in the
ordinary course of business. The purpose of these adjustments is to include in
the Operating Expenses for the Base Year all reasonable cost components that
occur or are likely to occur in later years.

                  If at any time during the Lease Term, less than 95% of the
rentable sq. ft. of the building(s) is occupied by tenants, the Operating
Expenses for such calendar year shall be reasonably determined to be an amount
equal to the expenses that would normally be expected to be incurred if such
occupancy had been 95% of the total rentable sq. ft. of the building(s). The
only expenses which shall be adjusted in this manner shall be variable expenses,
otherwise includable as Operating Expenses, where the amount is directly related
to the level of occupancy or square foot area receiving a particular service.

                  If a new category of Operating Expenses is incurred after the
Base Year, the first full year's expense for such items shall be added to the
Operating Costs for the Base Year commencing with the first full calendar year
that such expense is incurred, so that Tenant shall only be required to pay
subsequent increases in such expense. The expense incurred for such items during
the first year shall be subject to the adjustments described in the immediately
preceding paragraphs of this sub-section.

                  For the first full calendar year following the Base Year, the
Operating Expenses Escalation shall be billed as a one-time charge at the close
of the year and shall be paid by Tenant within sixty (60) days after receipt of
the bill. For the second full calendar year following the Base Year, and all
subsequent full or partial calendar years during the Lease, Tenant shall pay
Landlord each month, on account as Base Rent, an amount equal to one twelfth
(1/12) of the prior year's Operating Expenses Escalation, less any non-recurring
expenses (hereinafter "Operating Expenses Escalation Paid on Account").

                  Landlord shall provide Tenant with a bill for the Operating
Expenses Escalation after the close of each calendar year. Tenant shall, within
thirty (30) days of the Tenant's receipt of such bill, pay Landlord the
difference between the Operating Expenses Escalation Paid On Account and the
final amount due as set forth in such bill. If for any calendar year the
Operating Expenses Escalation Paid on Account exceeds the actual Operating
Expenses Escalation, the excess shall be treated as a prepayment of the next due
installment of Base Rent and Operating Expenses Escalation Paid on Account.

         (ii) Operating Expenses shall be limited to the following reasonable
and

                                        7
<PAGE>   12
necessary expenses which are paid or incurred (as permitted pursuant to
generally accepted accounting principals, consistently applied) for operating
and maintaining the Premises, the building(s) and common areas:

                  (1) Cleaning Expenses - All expenses for routine cleaning,
         including public areas, atriums, elevators, rest rooms and windows.
         Cleaning expenses shall include, but not be limited to maintenance of
         cleaning equipment, supplies, contract service and trash removal.
         Because of Tenant's banking operations, Tenant shall have the right to
         select the cleaning agent/personnel required hereunder, which cleaning
         agent/personnel may need to be bonded. Tenant shall pay as additional
         rent the additional costs of having a bonded cleaning agent/personnel.

                  (2) General - All expenses for general repair and maintenance,
         including contracted services, elevator, electrical, roof, plumbing,
         fire and life safety expenses, and other building maintenance supplies.

                  (3) Roads, Grounds and Security - Expenses related to exterior
         maintenance (e.g., landscaping, snow removal, parking lot repairs, site
         signage and lighting) and expenses for security.

                  (4) Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning - Heating,
         ventilation and air conditioning expenses for labor and supplies to
         operate and maintain air conditioning, heating and ventilating systems,
         including the cost of contracted services. No replacement costs for
         major components of the heating, ventilation or air conditioning
         systems or energy costs are included in this category.

                  (5) Insurance - All expenses for insurance of the Premises,
         building(s) and common areas.

                  (6) Salaries - All salaries, wages, medical, surgical, union
         and general welfare benefits (including group life insurance), and
         pension payments of persons employed by the Landlord, however, not
         above the level of property manager, to the extent such employees are
         directly engaged in the repair, operations and maintenance of the
         Premises, building(s) and common areas, together with payroll taxes,
         workers' compensation insurance premiums, uniforms and related expenses
         pertaining to such employees, to the extent such expenses are
         competitive and commercially reasonable.

                  (7) Management Fee - A management fee which in no event shall
         exceed three (3.0%) percent of the gross receipts from the building(s),
         as adjusted below. Management Fees for the Base Year and the Lease Term
         shall be computed as if the vacant areas of the building(s) were 95%
         rented at the Tenant's Base Rent, including reasonably anticipated
         amounts for escalations and other rents, without regard to rent
         abatements or other concessions, that would

                                       8
<PAGE>   13
         have been collected had the building(s) been fully occupied. After the
         Base Year, management fees shall be computed by substituting the actual
         base rents, including reasonably anticipated amounts for escalations
         and other rents, without regard to rent abatements or other concessions
         of tenants, for so long as such other tenants occupy areas which were
         vacant during the Tenant's Base Year.

                  (8) Utilities - Expenses for utilities servicing the common
         areas, including electricity, gas fuel oil, stream, water, and storm
         water/sewer; however, a tenant's overtime use of such utilities shall
         not be considered part of the Operating Expenses, but rather shall be
         separately charged to the specific tenant incurring such overtime
         utilities. Further, for purposes of this Lease, Operating Expenses
         specifically excludes electric and gas expenses which are the sole
         responsibility and cost of the Tenant.

                  (9) Landlord Reasonable Diligence - Landlord shall exercise
         reasonable diligence, no later than twenty-four (24) hours after
         receiving actual notice of a problem, in providing services (repairs,
         maintenance, snow removal, etc.) under this Lease.

         (iii) Exclusions/Deductions. By way of illustration and not limitation,
Operating Expenses shall not include, among other expenses or costs, any
expenses or costs incurred or paid by Landlord for the following items:

                  (1) Capital expenditures, including any capital replacement,
         capital repair or capital improvement made to the Premises, building's
         and common areas and any other expense which would be deemed to be a
         capital expenditure under generally accepted accounting principles,
         consistently applied. Replacement of an item or of a major component of
         an item and major repairs to such items in lieu of replacement shall
         each be considered a capital expenditure if the original item or a
         subsequent improvement to such item was, or could have been,
         capitalized.

                  Capital expenditures of $1,000.00 or less may be included in
         Operating Expenses. For purposes of this clause, a group of
         expenditures related to the same capital project shall be considered a
         single expenditure.

                  (2) Depreciation or amortization of the building(s) or its
         contents or components;

                  (3) Expenses for the preparation of space or other work which
         Landlord performs for any tenant or prospective tenant of the
         building(s);

                  (4) Expenses for repairs or other work which is caused by
         fire, windstorm, casualty or any other incurable occurrence, including
         costs subject to Landlord's insurance deductible;

                                       9
<PAGE>   14
                  (5) Expenses incurred in leasing or obtaining new tenants or
         retaining existing tenants, including leasing commissions, legal
         expenses, advertising or promotion;

                  (6) Legal expenses incurred in enforcing the terms of any
         lease;

                  (7) Interest, amortization or other costs, including legal
         fees, associated with any mortgage, loan or refinancing of the
         Premises, building(s) and common areas;

                  (8) Expenses incurred for any necessary replacement of any
         item to the extent that it is covered under warranty, provided warranty
         is honored and is effective;

                  (9) The cost of any item or service which Tenant separately
         reimburses Landlord or pays to third parties, or that Landlord provides
         selectively to one or more tenants of the building(s), other than
         Tenant, whether or not Landlord is reimbursed by such other tenant(s).
         This category shall include the actual cost of any special electrical,
         heating, ventilation or air conditioning required by any tenant that
         exceeds normal building standards;

                  (10) Accounting and legal fees relating to the ownership,
         construction, leasing, sale or any litigation relating to the Building,
         the Common Area Facilities or the Land;

                  (11) Any interest or penalty incurred due to the late payments
         of any Operating Expenses;

                  (12) Any amount paid to an entity or individual related to
         Landlord which exceeds the amount which would be paid for similar goods
         or services on an arm's-length basis between unrelated parties;

                  (13) The cost of correcting defects in the construction of the
         Premises, building(s) and common areas; repairs resulting from ordinary
         wear and tear shall not be deemed to be defects;

                  (14) The initial cost or the replacement cost of any permanent
         landscaping, or the regular landscaping maintenance for any property
         other than the Land;

                  (15) Costs of complying with any governmental laws, rules,
         regulations, or other requirements applicable to the Premises,
         building(s) and common areas;

                  (16) Any ground rent, air space rent or other rent incurred
         for the real

                                       10
<PAGE>   15
         property that the Premises, building(s) and common areas sit upon;

                  (17) Any cost incurred to test, survey, cleanup, contain,
         abate, remove or otherwise remedy Hazardous Materials, or asbestos
         containing materials from the Premises, building(s) and common areas,
         including any damages or future claims asserted against Landlord in
         connection with the same;

                  (18) Any personal property taxes of the Landlord for equipment
         or items not used directly in the operation or maintenance of the
         Premises, building(s) or common areas;

                  (19) Except for management fees, all expenditures pertaining
         to the administration of the Premises, building(s) and common areas,
         including payroll and payroll-related expenses associated with
         administrative and clerical personnel; general office expenditures;
         other administrative expenditures (including expenditures for travel,
         entertainment, dues, subscriptions, donations, data processing, errors
         and omissions insurance, automobile allowances, charitable
         contributions, political donations and professional fees of any kind)
         unless enumerated as Operating Expenses;

                  (20) Rentals and other related expenses, if any, incurred in
         leasing capital items;

                  (21) Any costs or expenses for sculpture, paintings, or other
         works of art, including, costs incurred with respect to the purchase,
         ownership, leasing, repair, and/or maintenance of such works of art;

                  (22) Contributions to reserves for Operating Expenses;

                  (23) The cost of overtime or other expense to Landlord in
         performing work expressly provided in this Lease to be borne at
         Landlord's expense;

                  (24) All expenses directly resulting from the negligence or
         willful misconduct of the Landlord, its agents, servants or other
         employees;

                  (25) All bad debt loss, rent loss, or reserve for bad debt or
         rent loss;

                  (26) Any other cost or expense which, under generally accepted
         accounting principles consistently applied, would not be considered to
         be Operating Expenses; and

                  (27) Any additional costs incurred in order to operate or
         maintain the Premises, building(s) or common areas or costs directly
         incurred by the Landlord due to the nature of business conducted by any
         tenant(s) within the Building which would not customarily be incurred
         in an office building, including,

                                       11


<PAGE>   16
         however not limited to, retail or food service tenants.

         (iv) The Cap. Notwithstanding any provision of this Lease to the
contrary, Tenant shall not be obligated to pay for any annual increases in
Operating Expenses per rentable sq. ft. for the Premises greater than four (4%)
percent per year, accumulative, of the Operating Expenses per rentable sq. ft.
for the Premises for the immediately preceding calendar year (the "Cap"). Such
increase, if any, shall be paid as Operating Expenses Escalation during each
calendar year, after the Base Year ('96). As an example, if the Base Year ('96)
adjusted Operating Expenses for Occupied rentable sq. ft., as calculated under
subsection 7(b)(i) herein, was $3.50 per Occupied rentable sq. ft. (an increase
of $.20 per sq. ft. from 1996 contracted rate for Occupied Premises), then the
following could apply for the 1997 calendar year Operating Expenses Escalation
provision:

<TABLE>
<S>                                                                      <C>
Contracted Operating Expenses per Occupied Rentable sq. ft.              $ 3.30
          X 4.% Cap, Accumulative                                           .04
                                                                         ------
OPERATING EXPENSES ESCALATION ALLOWED FOR 1997                           $ .132
</TABLE>

                  As indicated, only $.132 would be allowed per sq. ft. as
Operating Expenses Escalation for Occupied Premises for the 1997 calendar year.
The difference of $.068 (.20 - .132) per sq. ft. could not be recovered by
Landlord in 1997 calendar year, but the Cap described herein is accumulative
resulting in the $.068 difference potentially being recovered in later years of
the Lease.

(c)      Real Estate Tax Escalation.

         (i) This real estate tax escalation provision requires Tenant to pay
Tenant's Prorata Share of increases in Real Estate Taxes from that of the Base
Tax Year. In addition to the Base Rent, Tenant shall pay the Real Estate Taxes
Escalation.

         (ii) "Tax Year" means the full fiscal period for each levied or
assessed Real Estate Tax.

         (iii) "Base Tax Year" means the later to occur of (i) the first Tax
Year which falls entirely within the Lease Term and for which Real Estate Taxes
are levied or assessed, or (ii) the first Tax Year of the Lease Term during
which the Building is 100% fully assessed and 100% fully taxed as a 100%
completed structure.

         (iv) "Base Real Estate Taxes" means Real Estate Taxes for the Base Tax
Year, provided that if the Building is not at least 95% leased and occupied,
the Base Real Estate Taxes shall mean a fair and reasonable estimate of the Real
Estate Taxes that would have been incurred for the Base Year if the Building had
been 95% leased and occupied during the Base Year.


                                       12
<PAGE>   17
         (iv) For the first Tax Year following the Base Tax Year, the Real
Estate Tax Escalation shall be billed as a one-time charge at the close of the
year and shall be paid by Tenant within thirty (30) days after receipt of the
bill. Commencing with the second Tax Year following the Base Tax Year, and all
subsequent Tax Years, no sooner than sixty (60) days prior to the earliest due
date of the tax bill to the taxing authority, Tenant shall pay Landlord, on
account, within thirty (30) days after receiving an invoice therefore, an amount
not to exceed the Real Estate Taxes Escalation for the prior Tax year (the "Real
Estate Taxes Escalation Paid on Account").

                  For all subsequent years of the Lease Term, at the close of
each Tax Year, and after the applicable tax bills have been paid by Landlord,
Landlord shall provide Tenant with an invoice for the Real Estate Taxes
Escalation, including copies of the receipted Real Estate Tax bills. Tenant
shall, within thirty (30) days of the Tenant's receipt of such invoice, pay
Landlord the difference between the Real Estate Taxes Escalation Paid on Account
and the final amount due as set forth in such invoice.

                  If for any Tax Year the Real Estate Taxes Escalation Paid on
Account exceeds the Real Estate Taxes Escalation, the excess shall be: (i)
applied to reduce the Operating Expenses Escalation due pursuant to this Lease;
(ii) treated as a prepayment of the next due installments of Base Rent, and/or
Operating Expenses Escalation Paid on Account; or (iii) refunded to Tenant
within sixty (60) days, at Tenant's option.

         (v) This Real Estate Taxes Escalation provision is intended to assure
that Tenant pays Tenant's Prorata Share of ordinary increases in Real Estate
Taxes due to ordinary jurisdiction-wide increases in tax rates and changes in
the Premises, building(s) and common areas' assessments due to changes in local
market values. It is understood and agreed that the Base Rent shall include all
such Real Estate Taxes applicable to the Premises, building(s) and common areas
at normal tax rates and assessment levels as of the Base Tax Year. Accordingly:

             (1) Tenant shall not be responsible for any increase in Real
         Estate Taxes which results solely from the creation of additional
         rentable area on the Land or in the building(s) or from improvements or
         alterations made by Landlord or other tenants.

                 Tenant shall pay the full amount of any increase in Real
         Estate Taxes which are solely due to improvements to the Premises made
         by Tenant which are considered to be above-standard. If Tenant seeks to
         dispute any increase in Real Estate Taxes on its improvements, the
         burden of proof with respect thereto shall fall solely upon Tenant and
         Landlord shall reasonably cooperate with Tenant and give the necessary
         authority to challenge any such assessment on Landlord's behalf, and
         Tenant shall bear the full cost and expense of any such challenge.

             (2) If (i) there is a tax abatement program or other reduction in
         effect


                                       13
<PAGE>   18
         at any time during the Lease Term which reduces Real Estate Taxes, or
         (ii) Real Estate Taxes are "phased in" during the Lease Term, Real
         Estate Taxes for the Base Tax Year shall be adjusted so that they are
         computed on the same basis as Real Estate Taxes for the Tax Year(s)
         during which the tax abatement or phase-in is in effect. If following
         the termination of this Lease, Landlord receives any Real Estate Tax
         refund(s) allocable to the Premises covering Tenant's tenancy under
         this Lease, then Landlord shall within sixty (60) days thereof pay to
         Tenant an equal amount of such refund(s).

                 For example, if Real Estate Taxes for the Base Tax Year are
         reduced by 50% as part of a tax abatement program and Real Estate Taxes
         are reduced by 25% for the next Tax Year (year 2) and are not reduced
         at all for the following Tax Year (year 3), for purposes of computing
         the increase for year 2, the Base Year Real Estate Taxes shall be
         recomputed as if there were a 25% abatement in effect, and for
         purposes of computing the increase for year 3, the Base Real Estate
         Taxes shall be computed as if there were no abatement in effect.

             (3) If Tenant desires, Tenant may bring appropriate proceedings in
         Landlord's name or Tenant's name or both for contesting any assessment
         for any Tax Year during the Lease Term. The net amount of taxes
         recovered as a result of such proceedings (e.g., the amount recovered
         after payment of all sums necessary to attain such recovery) shall be
         shared between Landlord and Tenant with Tenant receiving Tenant's
         Prorata Share thereof. Landlord shall cooperate with Tenant with
         respect to the proceedings so far as is reasonably necessary.
         Notwithstanding the above, Landlord may but is not obligated to, in its
         sole discretion, contest any tax assessment if Landlord so determines.

             (4) Any increase in Real Estate Taxes for the Premises, building(s)
         or common areas resulting from a refinancing or sale of the Premises,
         building(s) or common areas shall be added to the Base Real Estate
         Taxes.

             (5) Other adjustments shall be made to the Real Estate Taxes
         Escalation as necessary in order to preserve the intent of this
         Subsection.

(d)      Escalation General Provisions.

         (i) Landlord shall maintain accurate books and records for the
Operating Expenses and Real Estate Taxes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles consistently applied, and shall keep copies of the actual
paid bills, canceled checks and copies of any applicable contracts for each year
including the Base Year, for the duration of the Lease Term, as extended, and
for three (3) years thereafter. Upon request and at Tenant's sole expense,
Landlord shall provide Tenant with copies of such books and records. However,
adjustments to Operating Expenses and Real Estate Taxes shall be made as
provided in the Lease. The Operating Expenses and Real Estate Taxes, including
such books and records, may be audited by Tenant or Tenant's authorized


                                       14
<PAGE>   19
         representative during normal business hours, upon reasonable prior
         notice to Landlord and at Tenant's sole expense. If Tenant challenges
         Landlord's computations of the Base Year's Operating Expenses, Real
         Estate Taxes, or the amount of the Operating Expenses Escalation or
         Real Estate Taxes Escalation, Tenant shall give Landlord written notice
         stating Tenant's objections. If Tenant's audit of the Operating
         Expenses or Real Estate Taxes for the Base Year or any subsequent year
         indicates that Tenant was overcharged for the Operating Expenses
         Escalation or Real Estate Taxes Escalation, Landlord shall promptly
         repay all such overpayments to Tenant and make any necessary adjustment
         to the Base Year. If Tenant's audit of the Operating Expenses, or Real
         Estate Taxes for the Base Year, or any subsequent year, indicates that
         Tenant was overcharged by an amount which is greater than five (5%) of
         the amount which should have been paid by Tenant, Landlord shall
         promptly reimburse Tenant for Tenant's audit fees and audit costs
         incurred.

                  (ii) The escalation payments for the last year of the Lease
         shall be based upon the number of actual months Tenant occupied the
         Premises during that year and shall be prorated accordingly.

                  (iii) If there is a change in ownership of the Premises,
         building(s) or common areas, Landlord agrees to make available complete
         copies of all records affecting Operating Expenses and Real Estate
         Taxes to the subsequent owner.

         (e) Tenant's Negligence. If damage to the Premises, building(s) or
common areas, including Landlord supplied Tenant Improvements, is caused by the
Tenant's, including Tenant's agents and employees', negligence or willful
misconduct, Tenant shall be responsible for all repairs related thereto.

8.       ALTERATIONS.

         (a) Tenant will not make or suffer to be made any alterations,
additions, fixtures or improvements (in excess of $1,000) to or of the Premises
or any part thereof, or attach any fixtures or equipment thereto, without first
obtaining Landlord's written approval which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Any alterations, additions, fixtures or improvements (except the initial Tenant
Improvements) to the Premises consented to by Landlord shall be made by Tenant
at Tenant's sole cost and expense, and any contractor selected by Tenant to make
the same shall be subject to Landlord's prior written approval. All alterations,
additions, fixtures and improvements temporary in character, made in or upon the
Premises by Tenant, shall remain the property of Tenant provided that such
alterations, additions, fixtures and improvements can be and are removed at the
end of the term or any extension hereof without damage to the Premises. However,
to the extent that Tenant fails to remove the temporary alterations, additions,
fixtures and improvements at the end of the term or any extension hereof, such
property shall become Landlord's property and remain on the Premises without
compensation to Tenant, unless Landlord requests that Tenant remove any such
alterations, additions or improvements, excluding Tenant Improvements outlined
in Article 2(c) herein.


                                       15
<PAGE>   20
         (b) Any alteration, addition, fixture or improvement shall, when
completed, be of such a character as not to lessen the value of the Premises or
such improvements as may be then located thereon. Any alteration, addition,
fixture or improvement shall be made promptly and in a good workmanlike manner
and in compliance with all applicable permits and authorizations and building
and zoning laws and with all other laws, ordinances, orders, rules, regulations
and requirements of all federal, state and municipal governments, departments,
commissions, boards and offices. The costs of any such alteration, addition,
fixture or improvement, excluding Tenant Improvements outlined in Article 2(c)
herein, shall be paid by Tenant, so that the Premises be free of liens for
services performed, labor and material supplied or claimed to have been
supplied. Before any alternation, addition, fixture or improvement shall be
commenced, excluding Tenant Improvements outlined in Article 2(c) herein, Tenant
shall pay the amount of any increase in premiums on insurance policies (provided
for herein) on account of endorsements to be made thereon covering the risk
during the course of such alteration, addition, fixture or improvement and the
increase value of the Premises.

9.        PERSONAL PROPERTY.

         Tenant may place suitable trade signs or other personal property of
Tenant not permanently affixed on the Premises. Such personal property must be
removed at the end of the term and any extensions of this Lease or upon Tenant's
failing to have possession of the Premises. Placement of signs on the exterior
of the building and on any monument, including the type, size and lighting of
the signs, must be approved in writing by Landlord prior to their installation,
which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. To the extent that
governmental approval is necessary for signage, Landlord shall reasonably
cooperate with Tenant in respect thereto at Tenant's sole expense.

10.      LIENS.

         Tenant shall keep the Premises and the Building free from any
mechanics' and/or materialmen's liens or other liens arising out of any work
performed, materials furnished or obligations incurred by Tenant. Tenant shall
notify Landlord in writing at least seventy-two (72) hours before any work or
activity is to commence on the Premises which may give rise to such liens to
allow Landlord to post and keep posted on the Premises any notices which
Landlord may deem to be proper for the protection of Landlord and the Premises
from such liens.

11.      DESTRUCTION OR DAMAGE.

         (a) If the Premises is partially damaged by fire, earthquake, or other
Act of God, Landlord shall repair the same at Landlord's expense, subject to the
provisions of this Article and provided such repairs can, in Landlord's
reasonable opinion, be made within 60 days. During such repairs, this Lease
shall remain in full force and effect, except that if there shall be damage to
the Premises and such damage is not the result of the negligence or willful
misconduct of Tenant or Tenant's employees, an abatement of Rents shall be
allowed Tenant for such portion of Premises and period of time as the Premises
was unusable by Tenant.


                                       16
<PAGE>   21
         (b) If in Landlord's reasonable opinion the partially damaged Premises
can be repaired, but not within 60 days, the Landlord may elect, upon written
notice to Tenant within ten (10) days of such damages, to repair such damages
over a longer time period and continue this Lease in full force and effect, but
with Rents partially abated as provided in Article 11(a). In the event such
repairs cannot be made within sixty (60) days, Tenant shall have the option to
terminate this Lease, without any liability to Landlord, provided that notice is
given to Landlord within ten (10) days of receipt of Landlord's notice stated in
this paragraph.

         (c) If the partially damaged Premises is to be repaired under this
Article, Landlord shall repair such damages to the Premises itself, and to the
Tenant Improvements supplied by Landlord herein. Tenant shall be responsible for
its equipment, furniture and fixtures, and Tenant Improvements made by Tenant
located on the Premises.

         (d) If in Landlord's reasonable opinion, the Premises is totally or
substantially destroyed by fire or other casualty, this Lease shall
automatically terminate, unless otherwise mutually agreed in writing by the
parties hereto.

         (e) If the partially or totalling damaged Premises was caused by a
negligent act or omission of Tenant, Tenant shall pay Landlord the difference
between the actual cost of rebuilding and any insurance proceeds received by
Landlord.

12.      SUBROGATION.

         Landlord and Tenant shall each, prior to Tenant's taking possession or
immediately after the execution of this Lease, procure from each of the insurers
under all policies of fire, theft, public liability, workmen's compensation and
other insurance now or hereafter existing during the term and any extension
hereof and purchased by either of them insuring or covering the Premises and/or
Building or any portion thereof or operations therein, a waiver of all rights of
subrogation which the insurer might otherwise, if at all, have against the
other.

13.      INDEMNIFICATION.

         (a) Tenant shall indemnify, defend, and hold Landlord harmless from any
damage to any property or injury to or death of any person arising from the use
of the Premises by Tenant, its agents, employees and invitees, except such as is
caused solely by reason of the gross negligence or willful act of Landlord, its
agents or employees. The foregoing indemnity obligation of Tenant shall include
reasonable attorney's fees, investigation costs and all other reasonable costs
and expenses incurred by Landlord from the first notice that any claim or demand
is to be made or may be made. The provisions of this Article shall survive this
Lease's termination with respect to any damage, injury or death occurring prior
to such termination.

         (b) Landlord shall indemnify, defend, and hold Tenant harmless from any
damage to any property or injury to or death of any person arising from the use
of the Premises by Landlord, its agents, employees and invitees, except such as
is caused solely by reason of the gross negligence or willful act of Tenant, its
agents or employees. The foregoing indemnity


                                       17
<PAGE>   22
obligation of Landlord shall include reasonable attorney's fees, investigation
costs and all other reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Tenant from the
first notice that any claim or demand is to be made or may be made. The
provisions of this Article shall survive this Lease's termination with respect
to any damage, injury or death occurring prior to such termination.

14.      COMPLIANCE WITH LEGAL REQUIREMENTS

         (a) Tenant shall, at no cost or expense to Landlord, promptly comply
with all laws, statutes, ordinances and governmental rules, regulations or
requirements now in force or which may hereafter be in force, with the
requirements of any board of fire underwriters or other similar body now or
hereafter constituted, with any direction or occupancy certificate issued
pursuant to any law by any public officer or officers, as well as the provisions
of all recorded documents affecting the Premises, insofar as any thereof relate
to or affect Tenant's obligations under the lease or its use and occupancy of
the Premises, excluding requirements related to or affected by construction of
the Premises and Tenant Improvements made by or for Tenant, and excluding any
matter which is the responsibility of the Landlord pursuant to Article 14(b)
herein.

         (b) Landlord shall, at no cost or expense to Tenant, promptly comply
with all laws, statutes, ordinances and governmental rules, regulations or
requirements, including but not limited to the Americans With Disabilities Act
("ADA"), now in force or which may hereafter be in force, as well as the
provisions of all recorded documents affecting the Premises, insofar as any
thereof relate to or affect Landlord's obligations under this Lease, or its
ownership of the Premises, building(s) or common areas. Further, Landlord
represents that to the best of Landlord's knowledge, information and belief, the
Premises is substantially free from environmental contamination by hazardous
substances, except as may be noted in the Phase I environmental report prepared
by Wasatch Environmental, a copy of which shall be provided to Tenant upon
request.

15.      INSURANCE.

         (a) Comprehensive General Liability. Tenant shall maintain a
Comprehensive General Liability policy including all coverages normally provided
by an "Extended Liability Endorsement." Such policies shall specifically name
Landlord as an additional insured and shall include a cross-liability
endorsement. Landlord may, at its discretion, request evidence of such insurance
and products insurance.

         The minimum limits of liability acceptable are:

         (i)      $1,000,000 Combined Single Limit for
                  Bodily Injury and Property Damage,
                                 or
         (ii)     $1,000,000 Bodily Injury and
                  $1,000,000 Property Damage.

         (b) Premises Insurance. Landlord shall insure the Premises, including
Landlord


                                       18
<PAGE>   23
supplied Tenant Improvements as deemed necessary in Landlord's sole discretion.
Tenant shall pay for such insurance as outlined in Article 7 herein.

         (c) Tenant's Additional Insurance. Tenant may, at its sole cost and
expense, cause all equipment, machinery, furniture and fixtures, personal
property, and Tenant Improvements supplied by Tenant from time to time used or
intended to be used in connection with the operation and maintenance of the
Premises, to be insured by Tenant against loss or damage by fire and other
casualty. Landlord is in no way liable for any uninsured Tenant's property,
except as caused by Landlord's negligence or willful misconduct.

16.      ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING.

         In the event Tenant should desire to assign this Lease or sublet the
Premises, Tenant shall give Landlord written notice of such desire at least
forty-five (45) days in advance of the date on which Tenant desires to make such
assignment or sublease. Landlord shall then have a period of fifteen (15) days
following receipt of such notice within which to notify Tenant in writing that
Landlord elects either (i) to terminate this lease as of the date so specified
by Tenant, in which event Tenant will be relieved of all further obligations
hereunder, or (ii) to permit Tenant to assign or sublet such space, subject to
prior written approval of the proposed assignee by Landlord, such consent not to
be unreasonably withheld so long as the use of the Premises by the proposed
assignee would be a permitted use and the proposed assignee is of sound
financial condition as reasonably determined by Landlord. If Landlord should
fail to notify Tenant in writing of such election within said fifteen (15) day
period, Landlord shall have deemed to have consented to such assignment or
sublease. Failure by Landlord to approve a proposed assignee shall not cause a
termination of this Lease. Any rents or other consideration realized by Tenant
under any such sublease and assignment in excess of the Rents hereunder, after
amortization of the reasonable costs of extra tenant improvements for which
Tenant has paid and reasonable subletting and assignment costs, shall be divided
and paid ninety percent (90%) to Landlord and ten percent (10%) to Tenant. Upon
assignment or subletting by Tenant, approved by Landlord, Tenant shall be
relieved of any obligation under this Lease. Any assignment or subletting which
conflicts with the provisions hereof shall be void.

         Notwithstanding the above, to the extent that Tenant has more than
fifty (50%) percent direct common ownership with Tenant's proposed assignee or
sublessee, Tenant shall be allowed to assign or sublease this Lease subject
only, in the case of an assignment, to Tenant's proposed assignee executing,
with Landlord, an assumption agreement agreeing to be fully bound to the terms
and conditions of this Lease.

17.      RULES.

         Tenant shall faithfully observe and comply with all Rules and
Regulations reasonably promulgated by Landlord, in writing and after reasonable
notice, during the term or any extensions of this Lease. Landlord shall not be
responsible to Tenant for the non-performance by other Building tenants, or
adjacent buildings' tenants, of any of said Rules and Regulations.


                                       19
<PAGE>   24
However, in the event of such non-performance by other tenants, Landlord shall,
upon Tenant's request, make reasonable efforts to require such other tenants to
perform.

18.      ENTRY BY LANDLORD.

         Subject to United States Government security requirements if and as
applicable, the Landlord may enter the Premises and/or Building at reasonable
hours and upon 24 hours written notice to Tenant to (a) inspect the same, (b)
show the same to prospective purchasers, lenders or tenants, (c) determine
whether Tenant is complying with all of Tenant's obligations hereunder, (d) post
notices of non-responsibility or (e) make repairs required of Landlord under
this Lease, repairs to adjoining space or utility service, or make repairs,
alterations or improvements to the Building, provided that all such work shall
be done as promptly as possible and with as little interference to Tenant as
reasonably possible. Tenant hereby waives any claim for damages for any injury
or inconvenience to or interference with Tenant's business, any loss of
occupancy or quiet enjoyment of the Premises or any other loss occasioned by
such entry, unless caused by the reckless or intentional acts of Landlord or its
agents. Landlord shall at all times have and retain a key to unlock all doors
in, on or about the Premises (excluding Tenant's vaults, safes and similar areas
designated in writing by Tenant). In the event of an emergency, Landlord shall
have the right to use any and all means which Landlord may deem proper to enter
the Premises, without notice, for the limited purpose of abating, as possible,
said emergency. Such emergency entrance shall not be deemed to be a forcible or
unlawful entry or a detainer of the Premises or an eviction, actual or
constructive, of Tenant from the Premises. Notwithstanding Landlord's entering
the Premises without notice in the case of an emergency, Landlord shall contact
Tenant's Designated Representative (as identified below) regarding such
emergency entry as soon as possible following such emergency entry. Tenant's
Designated Representative is Duane Thurber, who may be contacted at (801)
254-6879, or such other person as Tenant my designate hereafter in writing.

19.      EVENTS OF DEFAULT.

         The occurrence of any one or more of the following events ("Events of
Default") shall constitute a breach of this Lease by Tenant: (a) if Tenant fails
to pay Rents when and as the same becomes due and payable and such failure
continues for more than ten (10) days, or (b) if Tenant fails to pay any other
sum when and as the same becomes due and payable and such failure continues for
more than ten (10) days; or (c) if Tenant fails to perform or observe any
material term or condition of this Lease, such failure continues for more than
thirty (30) days after written notice from Landlord, and Tenant does not within
such period begin with due diligence and dispatch the curing of such default,
or, having so began, thereafter fails or neglects to complete with due diligence
and dispatch the curing of such default; or (d) if Tenant shall make a general
assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall admit in writing its inability
to pay its debts as they become due or shall file a petition in bankruptcy, or
shall be adjudicated as bankrupt or insolvent, or shall file a petition seeking
any reorganization, arrangement, composition, readjustment, liquidation,
dissolution or similar relief under any present or future statute, law or
regulation, or shall file any answer admitting or shall fail timely to contest
the


                                       20
<PAGE>   25
material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, or
shall seek or consent to or acquiesce in the appointment of any trustee,
receiver or liquidator of Tenant or any material part of its properties; or (e)
if within 60 days after the commencement of any proceeding against Tenant
seeking any reorganization, arrangement, composition, readjustment, liquidation,
dissolution or similar relief under any percent or future statute, law or
regulation, such proceeding shall not have been dismissed, or if, within 60 days
after the appointment without the consent or acquiescence of Tenant, of any
trustee, receiver or liquidator of Tenant or of any material part of its
properties, such appointment shall not have been vacated; or (f) vacation or
abandonment of the Premises for a continuous period in excess of fifteen (15)
days, provided that Tenant is otherwise in default or (g) if this Lease or any
estate of Tenant hereunder shall be levied upon under any attachment or
execution and such attachment or execution is not vacated within ten (10) days.

20.      TERMINATION UPON TENANT'S DEFAULT.

         If an Event of Default shall occur, Landlord at any time thereafter may
give a written termination notice to Tenant, and on the date specified in such
notice (which shall not be less than fifteen (15) days for all non-Rents related
defaults or five (5) days for Rents related defaults after Notice under Article
36 herein) Tenant's right to possession shall terminate and this Lease shall
terminate, unless on or before such date all Rents, arrearages and other sums
due by Tenant under this Lease, including reasonable costs and attorneys' fees
actually incurred by or on behalf of Landlord, shall have been paid by Tenant
and all other Events of Default by Tenant shall have been fully cured to the
reasonable satisfaction of Landlord. To the extent that Tenant needs
confirmation from Landlord of Tenant's having cured any noticed Event of Default
or needs an extension to cure such noticed Event of Default, it is incumbent on
Tenant to request and receive from Landlord confirmation that a noticed Event of
Default has been cured or that an extension to cure has been granted. Landlord
is under no unsolicited duty to notify Tenant that an Event of Default has been
cured, nor is Landlord under any duty to grant an extension to cure an Event of
Default. Upon such termination, Landlord may recover from Tenant:

         (a) the worth at the time of award of the unpaid Rents which had been
earned at the time of termination; plus

         (b) the worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid
Rents which would have been earned after termination until the time of award
exceeds the amount of such Rents loss that Tenant proves could have been
reasonably avoided; plus

         (c) the worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid
Rents for the balance of the term of this Lease after the time of award exceeds
the amount of such Rents loss that Tenant proves could be reasonably avoided by
Landlord through mitigation of its damages; and plus

         (d) any other amount necessary to compensate Landlord for all damages
proximately caused by Tenant's failure to perform its obligations under this
Lease or which in the ordinary


                                       21
<PAGE>   26
course of things would be likely to result therefrom, or by applicable law.

         The "worth at the time of award" of the amounts referred to in clauses
(a) and (b) above is computed by allowing interest at the rate of 10% per annum
from the time amounts were due to the time of award. The "worth at the time of
award" of the amount referred to in clause (c) above means the present value of
the monthly sum of the unpaid Rents under this Lease. In determining the present
value of such unpaid Rents, the parties agree that the discount rate shall be
equal to the prime rate of interest as published in the Wall Street Journal as
of the time of award. Failure of Landlord to declare any default immediately
upon occurrence thereof, or delay in taking any action in connection therewith,
shall not waive such default, but Landlord shall have the right to declare any
such default at any time thereafter. However, nothing herein limits Landlord's
duty to reasonably mitigate Landlord's damages.

21.      TERMINATION UPON LANDLORD'S DEFAULT; TENANT'S RIGHT TO CURE LANDLORD'S
         DEFAULT.

         (a) Any default by Landlord of any of its obligations under this Lease
that remain reasonably uncured, for more than thirty (30) days after having
received written notice of default from Tenant shall entitle Tenant to elect to
terminate this Lease, without any further liability for Landlord or Tenant.

         (b) Notwithstanding the above, upon Landlord failing to cure or
reasonably object to a noticed default of its obligations under this Lease,
Tenant may, but is under no obligation to, reasonably satisfy such noticed
default. To the extent that Tenant invokes such self-help, Tenant may withhold
from Rents such amount actually and reasonably paid to cure such uncured and
unobjected to Landlord default, provided that Tenant provide to Landlord
evidence of such actual and reasonable amounts paid. In no event is Tenant
allowed attorneys' fees, costs or interest under this provision.

22.      CONTINUATION AFTER DEFAULT.

         Even though Tenant has defaulted this Lease and abandoned the Premises,
this Lease shall continue in effect as long as Landlord does not terminate
Tenant's right to possession, and Landlord may enforce all of its rights and
remedies under this Lease, including the right to recover the Rents as they
become due under this Lease, subject to Landlord reasonably mitigating any
damages. Acts of maintenance or preservation or efforts to relet the Premises or
the appointment of a receiver upon initiative of Landlord to protect Landlord's
interest under this Lease shall not constitute a termination of Tenant's right
to possession. If any fixture, equipment, improvement, installation or
appurtenance shall be required to be removed from the Premises and/or Building
by Tenant, then Landlord (in addition to all other rights and remedies) may, at
its election by written notice to Tenant, deem that the same has been abandoned
by Tenant to Landlord, or Landlord may remove and store the same and restore the
Premises to its original condition at the expense of Tenant, as Additional Rent
to be paid within ten (10) days after written notice to Tenant of such expense.


                                       22
<PAGE>   27
23.      LANDLORD'S RIGHT TO CURE DEFAULTS.

         All terms and provisions to be performed by Tenant under this Lease
shall be at its sole cost and expense and without any abatement of Rents. If
Tenant falls to pay any sum of money, other than Rents, required hereunder or
fails to perform any other act required hereunder and such failure continues for
thirty (30) days after notice by Landlord, Landlord may, but shall not be
obligated, and without waiving or releasing Tenant from any obligations of
Tenant, make any such payment or perform any such act on Tenant's part to be
made or performed as provided in this Lease. All sums paid by Landlord and all
incidental costs shall be deemed Additional Rent hereunder and shall be payable
within ten (10) days of written notice of such sums paid.

24.      OTHER RELIEF.

         The remedies provided for in this Lease are in addition to any other
remedies available to Landlord or Tenant at law or in equity by statute or
otherwise.

25.      ATTORNEYS' FEES.

         In the event either party places the enforcement of this Lease, or any
part thereof, or the collection of any Rents, or recovery of the possession of
the Premises, or files suit upon the same, then the prevailing party shall
recover its reasonable attorneys' fees and costs.

26.      EMINENT DOMAIN.

         If all or any part of the Premises shall be taken or conveyed as a
result of the exercise of the power of eminent domain, this Lease shall
terminate as to the part so taken as of the date of taking, and, in the case of
a partial taking, either Landlord or Tenant shall have the right to terminate
this Lease as to the balance of the Premises by written notice to the other
within 30 days after such date; provided, however, that a condition to the
exercise by Tenant of such right to terminate shall be that the portion of the
Premises taken or conveyed shall be of such extent and nature as substantially
to handicap, impede or impair Tenant's use of the balance of the Premises. In
the event of any taking, Landlord shall be entitled to any and all compensation,
damages, income, rent awards or any interest therein whatsoever which may be
paid or made in connection therewith, and Tenant shall have no claim against
Landlord for the value of any unexpired term of this Lease or otherwise,
provided that Tenant shall be entitled to any and all compensation, damages,
income, rent or awards paid for or on account of Tenant's moving expenses, trade
fixtures, equipment and any leasehold improvements in the Premises, the cost of
which was borne by Tenant, to the extent of the then unamortized value of such
improvements for the remaining term of the Lease. In the event of a taking of
the Premises which does not result in a termination of this Lease, the monthly
rental herein shall be apportioned as of the date of such taking so that
thereafter the rent to be paid by Tenant shall be in the ration that the area of
the Premises not so taken bears to the total area of the Premises prior to such
taking.


                                       23
<PAGE>   28
27.      SUBORDINATION & NONDISTURBANCE.

         This Lease, at Landlord's option and subject to Landlord's proposed
form, shall be subordinate to any ground lease, mortgage, deed of trust, or any
other hypothecation for security now or hereafter placed upon the Building and
to any and all advances made on the security thereof and to all renewals,
modification, consolidations, replacements and extensions thereof.
Notwithstanding such subordination, Tenant's right to quiet possession of the
Premises shall not be disturbed if Tenant is not in default and so long as
Tenant shall pay the rent and observe and perform all of the provisions of the
Lease, unless this Lease is otherwise terminated pursuant to its terms. If any
mortgagee, trustee or ground lessor shall elect to have this Lease prior to the
lien of its mortgage, deed or trust or ground lease, and shall be deemed prior
to such mortgage deed of trust or ground lease, whether this Lease is dated
prior or subsequent to the date of said mortgage, deed of trust or ground lease
or the date of recording thereof, Tenant agrees to execute any reasonable
documents required (in the form substantially similar to the sample documents
attached hereto as Exhibits C & D) to effectuate such subordination or to make
this Lease prior to the lien of any mortgage, deed of trust or ground lease, so
long as Landlord is not in material default and such mortgagee, trustee or
ground lessor agrees not to disturb Tenant's quiet enjoyment of the Premises.

28.      NO MERGER.

         The voluntary or other surrender of this Lease by Tenant, or a mutual
cancellation thereof, shall not work a merger, and shall, at the option of
Landlord terminate all or any existing subleases or subtenancies, or may, at the
option of Landlord, operate as an assignment to it of any or all such subleases
or subtenancies.

29.      SALE.

         In the event the original Landlord hereunder, or any successor owner of
the Premises, building(s) or common areas, shall sell or convey the Premises,
building(s) or common areas, all liabilities and obligations on the part of the
original Landlord, or such successor owner, under this Lease accruing thereafter
shall terminate and Tenant shall attorn to such new owner, provided such new
owner expressly agrees to assume all such liabilities and obligations of such
original Landlord, or such successor owner, from the date the Premises is sold
or conveyed.

30.      ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE.

         At any time and from time to time but on not less than ten (10) days
prior written request by Landlord, Tenant will execute, acknowledge and deliver
to Landlord, promptly upon request, a certificate certifying (a) that this Lease
is unmodified and in full force and effect (or, if there have been
modifications, that this Lease is in full force and effect, as modified, and
stating the date and nature of each modification), (b) the date, if any, to
which rental and other sums payable hereunder have been paid, (c) that no notice
has been received by Tenant of any default which has not been cured, except as
to defaults specified in said certificate and (d) such other


                                       24
<PAGE>   29
matters as may be reasonably requested by Landlord. Any such certificate may be
relied upon by any prospective purchaser, mortgagee or beneficiary under any
deed or trust of the Building or any part thereof. So long as the above
representations are accurate, the failure of Tenant so to deliver such
certificate within the time specified above shall be deemed to be a material
breach of this Lease and shall entitle Landlord without notice to terminate this
Lease.

31.      NO LIGHT, AIR OR VIEW EASEMENT.

         Any diminution or reduction of light, air or view by any structure
erected on lands adjacent to the Building shall in no way affect this Lease or
impose any liability on Landlord.

32.      HOLDING OVER.

         If, without objection by Landlord, Tenant holds possession of the
Premises after expiration of the term or any extension period of this Lease,
Tenant shall become a tenant from month to month upon the terms herein
specified, but at a monthly Base Rent equivalent to 110% of the Base Rent at the
end of the term or extension period pursuant to Article 4, payable in advance on
or before the 1st day of each month. All Additional Rent shall also apply. Each
party shall give the other notice at least one month prior to the date of
termination of such monthly tenancy of its intention to terminate such tenancy.

33.      ABANDONMENT.

         If Tenant shall abandon or surrender the Premises, or be dispossessed
by process of law or otherwise, any personal property belonging to Tenant and
left on the Premises shall be deemed to be abandoned, at the option of Landlord,
except such property as may be mortgaged to Landlord.

34.      SECURITY DEPOSIT.

         Tenant has deposited with Landlord upon execution of this Lease a
security deposit equal to a month's full rental payment ("Security Deposit").
The Deposit shall be held by Landlord as security for the faithful performance
by Tenant of all of the provisions of this Lease to be performed or observed by
Tenant. In the event Tenant fails to perform or observe any of the provisions of
this Lease to be performed or observed by it, then, at the option of the
Landlord, Landlord may (but shall not be obligated to do so) apply the Deposit,
or so much thereof as may be necessary to remedy such default or to repair
damages to the Premises caused by Tenant. In the event Landlord applies any
portion of the Deposit to remedy any such default or to repair damages to the
Premises caused by Tenant, Tenant shall pay to Landlord, within thirty (30) days
after written demand for such payment by Landlord, all monies necessary to
restore the Deposit up to the original amount. Any portions of the Deposit
remaining upon termination of this Lease shall be returned within thirty (30)
days.


                                       25
<PAGE>   30
35.      WAIVER.

         All waivers by Landlord must be in writing and signed by Landlord. The
waiver by Landlord of any term or conditions herein shall not be deemed to be a
waiver of any subsequent breach of the same or any other agreement, condition or
provision herein contained, nor shall any custom or practice which may develop
between the parties in the administration of the terms hereof be construed to
waive or to lessen the right of Landlord to insist upon the performance by
Tenant in strict accordance with said terms. The subsequent acceptance of Rents
hereunder by Landlord shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach
by Tenant of any term or conditions of this Lease, other than the failure of
Tenant to pay the particular Rents so accepted, regardless of Landlord's
knowledge of such preceding breach at the time of acceptance of such Rents.

36.      NOTICES.

         All notices and demands which may or are required to be given by either
party to the other hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have
been fully given when deposited in the United States mail, certified or
registered, postage prepaid, and addressed as follows: to Tenant at ADVANTA
FINANCIAL CORP., ATTN: JOHN L. RICHARDS, PRESIDENT, 11850 ELECTION DR., DRAPER
UT 84020, or to such other place as Tenant may from time to time designate in a
notice to Landlord; to Landlord at DRAPER BUSINESS PARK, L.C., ATTN: SCOTT
WALDRON, 5200 SOUTH MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, 84107 or to such other
place as Landlord may from time to time designate in a notice to Tenant, or in
the case of Tenant, delivered to Tenant at the Premises. Tenant hereby appoints
as its agent to receive the service of all dispossessory or distraint
proceedings and notices hereunder the person in charge of or occupying the
Premises at the time, and if no person shall be in charge of or occupying the
same, then service may be made by attaching same on the main entrance of the
Premises.

37.      COMPLETE AGREEMENT.

         There are no oral agreements between Landlord and Tenant affecting this
Lease, and this Lease supersedes and cancels any and all previous negotiations,
arrangements, brochures, agreements and understandings, if any, between Landlord
and Tenant with respect to the subject matter of this Lease. This Lease may not
be altered, changed or amended, except by an instrument in writing signed by
both parties hereto.

38.      CORPORATE AUTHORITY.

         If Tenant signs as a corporation, each of the persons executing this
Lease on behalf of Tenant does hereby covenant and warrant that (a) Tenant is a
duly authorized and validly existing corporation, (b) Tenant has and is
qualified to do business in Utah, (c) the corporation has full right and
authority to enter into this Lease, and (d) each person executing this Lease on
behalf of the corporation is authorized to do so.


                                       26
<PAGE>   31
39.      GUARANTEE OF LEASE.

         Tenant guarantees to occupy the Premises, subject to the terms and
conditions of this Lease. Any failure to occupy the Premises does not release
the Tenant from the obligation of paying Rents or any other terms set forth
herein.

40.      MISCELLANEOUS.

         (a) The words "Landlord" and "Tenant" as used herein shall include the
plural as well as the singular. If there be more than one Tenant, the
obligations hereunder imposed upon Tenant shall be joint and several.

         (b) Time is of the essence on this Lease and each and all of its terms
and conditions.

         (c) The terms and conditions herein shall apply to and bind the heirs,
executors, administrators, successors and assigns of the parties hereto.

         (d) The captions of this Lease are solely to assist the parties and are
not a part of the terms or conditions of this Lease.

         (e) This Lease shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
the laws of the State of Utah, and is deemed to be executed within the State of
Utah.

41.      SEVERABILITY.

         If any term of provision of this Lease, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, shall to any extent be invalid or unenforceable, the
remainder of this Lease, or the application of such provision to persons or
circumstances other than those as to which it is invalid or unenforceable, shall
not be affected thereby, and each provision of this Lease shall be valid and
shall be enforceable to the extent permitted by law.

42.      BROKERS.

         Tenant is represented by CB Commercial. Landlord is represented by
Prime Commercial, Inc. Agreed-upon commissions shall be due and payable by
Landlord 50% upon execution, and 50% upon Tenant taking possession.


                                       27
<PAGE>   32
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Lease dated the day
and year first above written.

TENANT,                                   LANDLORD,

ADVANTA FINANCIAL CORP.                   DRAPER PARK NORTH, L.C.


By: /s/ John L. Richards                      By: /s/ Scott M. Waldron
    --------------------------------          ----------------------------------
    John L. Richards, President               Scott M. Waldron, Manager


                                       28
<PAGE>   33
                                    EXHIBIT A

LOT 2, PROPOSED PLAT OF REYNOLDS INDUSTRIAL PARK:

Beginning at a point South 89 deg. 46'37" East along the section line 958.59
feet from the North quarter corner of Section 25, Township 3 South, Range 1
West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian; and running thence South 89 deg. 46' 37" East
along the section line 203.93 feet; thence South 09 deg. 21'26" East 178.49
feet; thence South 89 deg., 46'37" East 407.75 feet to the true point of
beginning; thence South 00 deg. 04'00" West 487.00 feet to the North right of
way line of Election Road; thence South 89 deg. 46' 37" East along the North
line of said Election Road 377.32 feet to a point of curvature; thence along the
arc of a 41.00 foot radius curve to the left through a central angle of 97
deg. 18'23" a distance of 69.63 feet to a point of tangency; thence North 7 deg.
05'00" West along the West right of way line of said Election Road 444.39 feet;
thence North 89 deg. 46' 37" West 362.80 feet to the point of beginning.
<PAGE>   34

                               CONTINUING GUARANTY

         In consideration of, and as an inducement for the granting, execution
and delivery of the foregoing Lease attached hereto and made a part hereof,
dated SEPTEMBER 28, 1995 ("Lease"), by and between DRAPER PARK NORTH, L.C.
("Landlord") and ADVANTA FINANCIAL CORPORATION ("Tenant"), and other good and
valuable consideration given by Landlord to the undersigned guarantor, ADVANTA
CORP. ("Guarantor") hereby guarantees to Landlord (herein including its
successors and assigns) the full and prompt payment of all Rents by the Tenant
(herein including its successors and assigns); and the Guarantor (herein
including its successors and assigns) hereby covenants and agrees to and with
the Landlord that if Tenant shall be in default under the Lease, the Guarantor
will forthwith pay such Rents to the Landlord, including, without limitation,
all costs and reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by the Landlord as a result of
Tenant's default and enforcement of this Guaranty.

         This Guaranty is an absolute and unconditional Guaranty of payment. It
is enforceable against the Guarantor, upon ten (10) days written notice of
Tenant's default, without the necessity of legal suit or proceedings whatsoever
on Landlord's part against the Tenant, or acceptance of this Guaranty. Any other
notice or demand to which the Guarantor might otherwise be entitled is hereby
expressly waived. The Guarantor hereby expressly agrees that the validity of
this Guaranty and the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall not be
terminated, affected or impaired by reason of the assertion or the failure to
assert by the Landlord against Tenant of any of Landlord's rights or remedies
under the Lease.

         This Guaranty shall be a continuing Guaranty, and the liability of the
Guarantor shall not be effected or impaired by reason of any assignment or
extension of the Lease, or by reason of any modification, waiver or change in
any terms and conditions of the Lease, or by reason of any dealings between
Landlord and Tenant, whether or not notice is given to the Guarantor. Any
written notice or contact with Guarantor shall be addressed to:

         Advanta Corp.
         Attn: General Counsel
         Five Horsham Business Center
         300 Welsh Road
         Horsham, PA 19044-2209

         Notwithstanding the preceding paragraphs, at the expiration of the
Lease and any extensions or holdovers, and providing that Tenant is in full
compliance with all obligations under the Lease, Guarantor's obligations under
this Guaranty shall automatically terminate.

         DATED: March 12, 1996

GUARANTOR: ADVANTA CORP.


/s/ John J. Crowe, Jr.
- ------------------------
Vice President
<PAGE>   35
STATE OF PA            )                                NOTARIAL SEAL
                       )                        BETTY VAN SANT, NOTARY PUBLIC
                       :ss                     HORSHAM TWP., MONTGOMERY COUNTY
                       )                     MY COMMISSION EXPIRES FEB. 22, 1999
COUNTY OF  MONTGOMERY  )


         On this 14 day of March, 1996 before me a Notary Public, personally
appeared John J. Crowe, Jr., who represented to me to be the _________________
of Advanta Corp., a _______________, that executed the within and foregoing
instrument, and acknowledged said instrument to be the free and voluntary act
and deed of said corporation, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, and
on oath stated that he/she had the capacity and was duly authorized to execute
said instrument.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunder set my hand and official seal on
the day first above written.


                             /s/ BETTY VAN SANT
                             -------------------------------
                             NOTARY PUBLIC


                                       2
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.W
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>LEASE AGREEMENT 9/27/97  SAN DIEGO DEVELOPMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                               Exhibit 10-W

                       FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT

         THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT, dated as of October 20,1998,
is entered into by and between SAN DIEGO DEVELOPMENT #1, LLC, a Colorado limited
liability company, having an office at 4582 South Ulster Street Parkway, Denver,
Suite 403, CO 80237 ("Landlord") and ADVANTA MORTGAGE CORP. USA, a Delaware
corporation, having an office at 200 Tournament Drive, Suite 103, Horsham, PA
19044 ("Tenant").

                                   Recitals:

                  i. Landlord and Tenant entered into a written lease agreement,
dated August 27, 1997 (the "Lease"). (Initially capitalized terms not otherwise
defined herein have the same meaning as in the Lease.)

                  ii. Landlord and Tenant desire to amend the Lease in the
manner and form hereinafter set forth.

                  C. Advanta Corp., a Delaware corporation ("Guarantor") is the
guarantor of Tenant's obligations under the Lease by the terms of a Corporate
Guaranty (the "Guaranty").

         NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, Landlord and
Tenant hereby agree as follows:

         a. As provided above, the parties acknowledge that the sole tenant
under the Lease is Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA and that the references on page 1
of the Lease to "ADVANTA CORP., a Delaware corporation" and " collectively" are
typographical errors and are hereby deleted.

         b. Landlord has delivered all floors of the Leased Premises Tenant
Ready and Substantial Completion has occurred and, notwithstanding anything to
the contrary set forth in the Lease, the Rent Commencement Date shall mean
October 15, 1998. Upon the execution hereof, Tenant shall pay to Landlord
$79,046.19 attributable to the Minimum Rent for the period October 15 through
October 31, 1998; no late interest charges shall be applicable to Tenant's
payment of such installment of Minimum Rent. Tenant has not exercised any right
to

<PAGE>   2
terminate the Lease under Section 2(e) and has no further rights to terminate
the Lease under Section 2(e); Landlord has no obligation to pay Tenant's
Holdover Costs under the provisions of Section 2(e).

                  c. The addresses of Landlord and Tenant under Section 42 are
hereby amended by deletion in their entirety and substitution of the following
in lieu thereof:

                                    if intended for Tenant after occupancy:

                                      President
                                      Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA
                                      Welsh & McKean Roads
                                      Springhouse, PA 19477
                                      FAX NO. (215) 323-4844

                                    with a copy to:

                                      General Counsel
                                      Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA
                                      Welsh & McKean Roads
                                      Springhouse, PA 19477
                                      FAX NO. (215) 444-5915

                                    with a copy to:

                                      Vice President, Advanta Corporate Services
                                      200 Tournament Drive
                                      Horsham, PA 19044
                                      FAX NO. (215) 674-1442

                                    if intended for Landlord:

                                      San Diego Development #1, LLC
                                      c/o Miller Global-Pauls
                                      3950 Lewiston Street
                                      Aurora, CO 80011
                                      FAX NO. (303) 371-1465




<PAGE>   3
                                  with a copy to:
                                    Lawrence J. Donovan, Jr.
                                    Isaacson Rosenbaum Woods & Levy, PC
                                    633 Seventeenth Street, Suite 2200
                                    Denver, CO 80202
                                    FAX NO. (303) 292-3152

         d. Section 43(b) is hereby amended by deletion of subsections (1) and
(2) and substitution of the following in lieu thereof:

                  "(1) (i) Without demand or notice, to reenter and take
possession of the Leased Premises or any part thereof and repossess the same as
of Landlord's former estate and expel Tenant and those claiming through or under
Tenant and remove the effects of both or either, without being deemed guilty of
any manner of trespass and without prejudice to any remedies for arrears of rent
or preceding breach of covenants or conditions. Should Landlord elect to
reenter, as provided in this subparagraph (1), or should Landlord take
possession pursuant to legal proceedings or pursuant to any notice provided for
by law, Landlord may, from time to time, without terminating this Lease, relet
the Leased Premises or any part thereof, either alone or in conjunction with
other portions of the Building of which the Leased Premises are a part, in
Landlord's or Tenant's name but for the account of Tenant, for such term or
terms (which may be greater or less than the period which would otherwise have
constituted the balance of the term of this Lease) and on such commercially
reasonable conditions and upon such other terms (which may include concessions
of free rent and alteration and repair of the Leased Premises) as Landlord, in
its discretion, may determine and Landlord may collect and receive the rents
therefor, which rights include the rights of Landlord under Section 1951.4 of
the California Civil Code. In the event that Landlord elects to avail itself of
the remedy provided by this subparagraph (1), Landlord shall not unreasonably
withhold its consent to an assignment or subletting of the Leased Premises
subject to the reasonable standards for Landlord's consent as are contained in
this Lease. In addition, in the event Tenant has entered into a sublease which
is valid under the terms of this Lease, Landlord may also, at its option, cause
Tenant to assign to Landlord the interest of Tenant under said sublease,
including, but not limited to, Tenant's right to payment of rent as it becomes
due. Landlord shall in no way be responsible or liable for any failure to relet
the Leased Premises, or any part thereof, or for any failure to collect any rent
due upon such reletting. No such reentry or taking possession of the Leased
Premises by Landlord shall be construed as an election on Landlord's part to
terminate this Lease unless a written notice of such intention be given to
Tenant. No notice from Landlord hereunder or under a forcible entry and detainer
statute or sim-

<PAGE>   4

ilar law shall constitute an election by Landlord to terminate this Lease unless
such notice specifically so states. Landlord reserves the right following any
such reentry and/or reletting to exercise its right to terminate this Lease by
giving Tenant such written notice, in which event the Lease will terminate as
specified in said notice.

                  (ii) If Landlord elects to take possession of the Leased
Premises as provided in this subparagraph (1) without terminating the Lease,
Tenant shall pay to Landlord (a) the rent and other sums as herein provided,
which would be payable hereunder if such repossession had not occurred, less (b)
the net proceeds, if any, of any reletting of the Leased Premises after
deducting all of Landlord's commercially reasonable expenses incurred in
connection with such reletting, including, but without limitation, all
repossession costs, brokerage commissions, legal expenses, attorneys' fees,
expenses of employees, alteration, remodeling, and repair costs and expenses of
preparation for such reletting. If, in connection with any reletting, the new
lease term extends beyond the existing Term or the premises covered thereby
include other premises not part of the Leased Premises, a fair apportionment of
the rent received from such reletting and the expenses incurred in connection
therewith, as provided aforesaid, will be made in determining the net proceeds
received from such reletting. In addition, in determining the net proceeds from
such reletting, any rent concessions will be apportioned over the term of the
new lease. Tenant shall pay such amounts to Landlord monthly on the days on
which Minimum Rent and Additional Rent and all other amounts owing hereunder
would have been payable if possession had not been retaken and Landlord shall be
entitled to receive the same from Tenant on each such day; or

                  (2) To give Tenant written notice of intention to terminate
this Lease on the date of such given notice or on any later date specified
therein and, on the date specified in such notice, Tenant's right to possession
of the Leased Premises shall cease and the Lease shall thereupon be terminated,
except as to Tenant's liability hereunder as hereinafter provided, as if the
expiration of the term fixed in such notice were the end of the Term herein
originally demised. In the event this Lease is terminated pursuant to the
provisions of this subparagraph (2), Tenant shall remain liable to Landlord for,
and Landlord shall have the right to recover from Tenant, an amount equal to (i)
the worth at the time of the award of the unpaid Minimum Rent and Additional
Rent which had been earned at the time of termination, (ii) the worth at the
time of award of the amount by which the unpaid Minimum Rent and Additional Rent
which would have been earned after termination until the time of award exceeds
the amount of such rental loss that Tenant proves could have been reasonably
avoided; (iii) the worth at the time of the award by which the unpaid Minimum
Rent and Additional Rent for the balance of the Term after the time of the award
exceeds the amount of such rental loss that Tenant proves could
<PAGE>   5
be reasonably avoided; and (iv) any other amount necessary to compensate
Landlord for all the detriment proximately caused by Tenant's failure to perform
its obligations under this Lease or which in the ordinary course of things would
be likely to result therefrom, including, but not limited to, the cost of
recovering possession of the Leased Premises, commissions and other expenses of
reletting, including necessary repair, demolition and renovation of the Leased
Premises to the condition required to be in at the expiration of the Term, the
cost of rectifying any damage to the Leased Premises occasioned by the act or
omission of Tenant, reasonable attorneys fees and any other reasonable costs;
and (v) at Landlord's election, such other amounts in addition to or in lieu of
the foregoing as may be permitted by law. "Worth at the time of award" as used
in clauses (i) and (ii) above, shall be computed at the rate provided in
Paragraph 4(c) above. As used in clause (iii) above, "worth at the time of
award" shall be computed by discounting the amount at the discount rate of the
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco at the time of the award plus 1%."

         e. If there is any conflict between the terms of this Amendment and the
terms of the Lease, the terms of this Amendment govern. The Lease as hereby
amended is in full force and effect, is hereby ratified and affirmed by the
parties, and is binding upon the parties in accordance with its terms.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have entered into this First
Amendment effective as of August 27, 1997, having executed this Lease on the
dates set forth in the following notarizations. This First Amendment may be
executed in counterparts, each of which (or any combination of which) when
signed by all of the parties shall be deemed an original, but all of which when
taken together shall constitute but one agreement. Any one or more of such
duplicate signature pages may be removed from any one or more of such
counterparts and annexed to other counterparts and duplicate signature pages to
form a completely executed original Lease.

                         LANDLORD:

                         SAN DIEGO DEVELOPMENT #1, LLC, a Colorado
                         limited liability company

                         By: SD 1, LLC, a Colorado limited liability company,
                             Member

                             By: The Pauls Corporation, LLC, a Colorado


<PAGE>   6

                              limited liability company, Its Manager and
                              Member

                              By: /s/ William B. Pauls
                              William B. Pauls, Manager

                    By:       GE Investment Realty Partners III
                              Limited Partnership, a Delaware
                              limited partnership, Member

                              By: /s/ Bradford Barrett


          By:       MGA Real Estate Associates, LLLP, a Colorado
                    limited liability limited partnership, Member


By: /s/ Gregory Pohle
                                   Authorized Signatory


<PAGE>   7
STATE OF COLORADO           )
                            ) SS.
CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER   )


     The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this 25 day of
January, 1999, by William B. Pauls, as Manager of The Pauls Corporation, LLC,
a Colorado limited liability company, as Manager and Member of SD #1, LLC,
a Colorado limited liability company, a Member of San Diego Development
#1, LLC, a Colorado limited liability company.

          Witness my hand and official seal.

          My commission expires: July 31, 2001
                                 ----------------------

                                 /s/ Virginia H. Lucky
                                 -----------------------
                                 Notary Public



STATE OF CALIFORNIA      )
                         )SS.
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES    )


     The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this 27th day
of January, 1999, by B. Bradford Barrett, as President of GE Investment
Realty Partners III Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership,
a Member of SD #1, LLC, a Colorado limited liability company, a Member
of San Diego Development #1, LLC, a Colorado limited liability company.

          Witness my hand and official seal.

          My commission expires: November 6th, 1999
                                ------------------------


                                /s/ Laura Haver
                                ------------------------
                                Notary Public



STATE OF COLORADO                )
                                 )SS.

CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER        )




[seal]      LAURA HAVER
        Commission #1076795
     Notary Public - California
          Los Angeles County
    My Comm. Expires Nov. 6, 1999





<PAGE>   8
     The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this 5th day of
February, 1999, by Greg Poule as authorized signatory of MGA Real Estate
Associates, LLLP, a Colorado limited liability limited partnership, a member of
San Diego Development #1, LLC, a Colorado limited liability company.

     Witness my hand and official seal.

     My commission expires: 6/28/2001

                                   /s/ Barbara A. Stephenson
                                   -------------------------------------
                                   Notary Public

signatures and notarizations continued on next page


                                                                          [SEAL]
<PAGE>   9
                                        TENANT:

                                        ADVANTA MORTGAGE CORP. USA,
                                        a Delaware corporation


                                        By: /s/ John J. Crowe, Jr.
                                            ------------------------------------
- ------------
                                        Title: Vice President
                                              ----------------------------------
- ------------

[Corporate Seal]                Attest: /s/ Michele A. Stevenson
                                       -----------------------------------------
                                       Assistant Secretary

STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA       )
                                : ss.
COUNTY OF MONTGOMERY        )

     On this the 13th day of January, 1999, before me the subscriber, a notary
public in and for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, personally appeared John J.
Crowe, Jr., who acknowledged himself to be the Vice President of ADVANTA
MORTGAGE CORP. USA, a Delaware corporation, and that he as such Vice President,
being authorized to do so, executed the foregoing instrument for the purpose
therein contained by signing the name of the corporation by himself as Vice
President.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and official seal.

[Notary Seal]                            /s/ Patricia D. Kelly
- --------------------                     ---------------------------------------

                                         Notary Public

                                         My Commission Expires:
- --------------------                                           ------------

                                         [NOTARIAL SEAL
                                          PATRICIA D. KELLY, Notary Public
                                          Lower Gwynedd Twp., Montgomery Co.
                                          My Commission Expires Aug. 27, 2001]
<PAGE>   10
The undersigned, as "Guarantor" under that "Corporate Guaranty" entered into as
of August 27, 1997, hereby consents to the terms of the Guaranty and
acknowledges and agrees that Guarantor shall guaranty the Lease as amended by
the First Amendment in accordance with the terms of the Guaranty.

                                            ADVANTA CORP.


                                            By: /s/ Christopher S. Derganc
                                               ------------------------------

                                            Title: SVP
                                                -----------------------------

[Corporate Seal]                            Attest: /s/ Susan Giusti
                                                -----------------------------
                                                 Assistant Secretary

STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA    )
                              : ss.
COUNTY OF MONTGOMERY     )

     On this the 13th day of January, 1999, before me the subscriber, a notary
public in and for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, personally appeared
Christopher S. Derganc, who acknowledged himself to be the Sr. V.P. of ADVANTA
CORP., a Delaware corporation, and that he as such Sr. V.P., being authorized to
do so, executed the foregoing instrument for the purpose therein contained by
signing the name of the corporation by himself as Sr. Vice President.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and official seal.

[Notarial Seal]                         /s/ Patricia D. Kelly
                                            ------------------------------
                                            Notary Public
                                            My Commission Expires:
                                                                  --------

- --------------                             [NOTARIAL SEAL
                                            PATRICIA D. KELLY, Notary Public
                                            Lower Gwynedd Twp., Montgomery, CO.
                                            My Commission Expires Aug. 27, 2001]



<PAGE>   11
                                      LEASE



                                     between

                         SAN DIEGO DEVELOPMENT #1, LLC,
                 a Colorado limited liability company, Landlord

                                       and

                           ADVANTA MORTGAGE CORP. USA,
                         a Delaware corporation, Tenant


<PAGE>   12
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Paragraph           Caption                                                Page
1.                  Leased Premises .........................................  1

2.                  Term; Rent Commencement Date; Conditions Precedent ......  2

3.                  Options to Extend .......................................  4

4.                  Minimum Rent ............................................  4

5.                  Assessments Under Declaration ...........................  6

6.                  Real Estate Taxes .......................................  7

7.                  Plans and Specifications ................................  9

8.                  Construction; Landlord's Work; Landlord's Improvements .. 11

9.                  Timing of Landlord's Work ............................... 11

10.                 Landlord's .............................................. 12

11.                 Landlord's Financial Condition .......................... 12

12.                 Tenant's Work ........................................... 12

13.                 Landlord's Contribution for Tenant's Work ............... 13

14.                 Manner of Tenant's Work ................................. 13

15.                 Construction Cooperation ................................ 14

16.                 Landlord Delay; Tenant Delay/Governmental Inducements ... 14

17.                 Use and Occupancy of Leased Premises .................... 14

18.                 Hazardous Materials ..................................... 14

19.                 Tenant's Signs .......................................... 15

20.                 Intentionally Omitted ................................... 15

21.                 Utilities ............................................... 15





                                       i
<PAGE>   13
22.  Maintenance and Repair ................................................  16

23.  Alterations ...........................................................  17

24.  Tenant's Trade Fixtures ...............................................  20

25.  Surrender of Leased Premises ..........................................  20

26.  Property in the Leased Premises .......................................  21

27.  Landlord's Access to Leased Premises ..................................  21

28.  Zoning, Land Use Regulations, Utilities and Compliance with Laws,
     Ordinances, and Requirements of Public Authorities ....................  21

29.  Assignment and Subletting .............................................  23

30.  Holdover ..............................................................  24

31.  Indemnification of Landlord and Tenant ................................  25

32.  Liability Insurance ...................................................  25

33.  Fire and All Risk Insurance ...........................................  27

34.  Intentionally Omitted .................................................  30

35.  General Insurance Requirements ........................................  30

36.  Damage or Destruction .................................................  30

37.  Eminent Domain ........................................................  32

38.  Subordination, Recognition, Non-Disturbance and Attornment ............  35

39.  Quiet Enjoyment .......................................................  37

40.  Condition of Title ....................................................  38

41.  Recording; Delivery of Title Report ...................................  38

42.  Notices, Payment of Rent ..............................................  38

43.  Tenant's Default ......................................................  40

44.  Intentionally Omitted .................................................  42




                                       ii
<PAGE>   14
45.       Landlord's Default .............................................    42

46.       Remedies Cumulative ............................................    44

47.       No Waiver ......................................................    44

48.       Waiver of Jury Trial ...........................................    44

49.       Unavoidable Delays .............................................    44

50.       Relationship of Parties ........................................    45

51.       Estoppel Certificates ..........................................    45

52.       Broker .........................................................    46

53.       Covenants to Run with the Land; Binding Effect .................    46

54.       Choice of Law ..................................................    46

55.       Entire Agreement; Interpretation ...............................    46

56.       Invalidity of Certain Provisions. ..............................    46

57.       Captions .......................................................    46

58.       Definitions ....................................................    47

59.       Arbitration ....................................................    51

60.       Limitation on Landlord Liability ...............................    51

61.       Guaranty .......................................................    51


                                      iii
<PAGE>   15
                                    EXHIBITS


Exhibit "A"         -       Legal Description of Leased Premises
Exhibit "B"         -       Guaranty
Exhibit "C"         -       Permitted Exceptions
Exhibit "D"         -       Final Plans and Specifications
Exhibit "E"         -       Tenant's Plans and Specifications
Exhibit "F"         -       Landlord's Improvements portion of Tenant's Work
Exhibit "G"         -       Form of Subordination, Nondisturbance and Attornment
                            Agreement


                                       iv
<PAGE>   16
                                      LEASE


         THIS LEASE made this 27th day of August, 1997, between SAN DIEGO
DEVELOPMENT #1, LLC, a Colorado limited liability company, having an office at
4582 South Ulster Street Parkway, Denver, Suite 403, CO 80237 ("Landlord") and
ADVANTA MORTGAGE CORP. USA, a Delaware corporation, and ADVANTA CORP., a
Delaware corporation, having offices at 200 Tournament Drive, Suite 103,
Horsham, PA 19044 (collectively "Tenant").


                                   WITNESSETH:



         1. Leased Premises. Landlord does hereby demise and let unto Tenant
and Tenant does hereby lease and take from Landlord for the term and upon the
conditions set forth in this Lease:

                  ALL THAT CERTAIN Lot or piece of ground located on Rancho
Bernardo Road, in the County of San Diego, State of California, commonly known
as lot 63, 4S Ranch and which is more particularly described on EXHIBIT "A",
attached hereto (the "Leased Premises"), the same being a subdivided lot within
the business park known as "4S Ranch" (the "Park").

                  TOGETHER WITH the building to be erected thereon, of 3 stories
and approximately 130,000 gross square feet, having approximately 127,000
rentable square feet (the "Building") and parking structure; and

                  TOGETHER WITH the rights and easements to use, in common with
others, those easements established for the benefit of owners and occupants
under the Declaration; and

                  TOGETHER WITH and UNDER AND SUBJECT TO the benefit of all
rights, appurtenances, privileges, easements, rights of ingress or egress,
licenses or hereditaments, now or hereafter belonging or appertaining to the
Leased Premises;

                  TOGETHER WITH and UNDER AND SUBJECT TO the benefit and burden
of the easements, covenants and restrictions contained in that certain
Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions of 4-S Ranch Business
Park, as amended, as described in item 12 of EXHIBIT "C" hereto (the
"Declaration");

                  SUBJECT, however, to all restrictions, rights, easements or
agreements specifically listed on EXHIBIT "C" hereto.
<PAGE>   17

         2.       Term, Rent Commencement Date; Conditions Precedent.

                  (a) Length of Term. The initial term of this Lease (the
"Initial Term") shall commence on the date hereof ("Commencement Date") and
shall continue to and include the date ("Expiration Date") which is the last day
of the tenth (10th) Lease Year (as defined in subparagraph (c) below). If Tenant
shall elect to extend the Initial Term for one or more Renewal Periods pursuant
to Paragraph 3 below, the term of this Lease (the "Term") shall mean the Initial
Term together with each Renewal Period for which Tenant has exercised a Renewal
Option and the Expiration Date shall be the last day of the last Renewal Period
for which Tenant has exercised a Renewal Option.

                  (b) Rent Commencement Date Defined. The "Rent Commencement
Date" shall mean the date on which Tenant's rental obligation for the entire
Leased Premises commences, which shall be the later of (i) the 96th calendar day
following the date on which Landlord has delivered all floors of the Leased
Premises "Tenant Ready" as hereinafter defined, or (ii) the date on which
Substantial Completion, as hereinafter defined, has occurred.

                  (c) Lease Year Defined. The first "Lease Year" shall be the
period of twelve (12) consecutive calendar months from the Rent Commencement
Date. The first Lease Year shall commence on the Rent Commencement Date if the
Rent Commencement Date is the first day of a calendar month or, if not, on the
first day of the first calendar month immediately following the Rent
Commencement Date (and for purposes of payment of Rent such partial month period
from the Rent Commencement Date to the first of the calendar month shall be
deemed part of the first Lease Year). Each subsequent Lease Year shall commence
on the anniversary of the commencement date of the first Lease Year.

                  (d) No Obligations Prior to Rent Commencement. Tenant shall
not be obligated to pay any Additional Rent due hereunder or to perform any of
Tenant's obligations hereunder during the period between the Commencement Date
and the Rent Commencement Date, with the exception of Tenant's obligations
hereunder which this Lease expressly provides shall arise prior to the Rent
Commencement Date.

                  (e) Delay in Completion.

                           (A) If Landlord has failed to commence construction
of the Building (as evidenced by Landlord obtaining a permit permitting grading
and commencing site grading in accordance with the Final Plans and
Specifications) by October 15, 1997 (the "Construction Deadline"), then either
party shall have the right to deliver notice to the other of its intention to
terminate this Lease; provided, however, that Landlord shall have a right to
terminate under this Section 2(e)(A) only if Landlord has failed to commence
construction as a result of the failure of the governmental authorities to issue
a grading permit or as a result of governmental authorities issuance of a direct
order preventing such grading for reasons beyond Landlord's control. If the
notice of intent to terminate is delivered by Landlord to Tenant, this Lease
shall terminate fifteen (15) days after Tenant's receipt of such notice, unless
Landlord and Tenant can agree in writing on an extension of the Construction
Deadline. If Tenant delivers notice to Landlord that Tenant intends to terminate
this Lease

                                       2

<PAGE>   18
and, within fifteen (15) days following receipt of such notice Landlord fails to
commence construction, then Tenant shall have a right thereafter to immediately
terminate this Lease by notice given to Landlord but such termination notice
shall only be deemed effective if actually received by Landlord prior to the
commencement of construction.

                  (B) Following commencement of construction, if Landlord
discontinues construction of Landlord's Work for one-hundred twenty (120)
consecutive days for reasons other than Unavoidable Delay (but excluding Tenant
Delay), then Tenant shall have the right to deliver notice to Landlord of its
intention to terminate this Lease. If Tenant delivers such notice and Landlord
fails to recommence construction within fifteen (15) days following receipt of
such notice, Tenant shall have a right thereafter to immediately terminate this
Lease by notice to Landlord, but such termination notice shall only be deemed
effective if actually received by Landlord prior to the recommencement of
construction.

                  (C) If the Tenant Ready Date (as hereinafter defined) has not
occurred on or before September 1, 1998, which deadline shall be extended by any
Tenant Delay ("Completion Deadline"), and Tenant is unable to substantially
complete Tenant's Work by November 28, 1998, then: Tenant shall have the right
to receive a Rent credit against Rent first due following the Rent Commencement
Date, equal the product of: (a) the number of days the Tenant Ready Date is
delayed beyond the Completion Deadline, or the number of days beyond November
28, 1998 that Tenant is unable to substantially complete Tenant's Work,
whichever is less, multiplied by (b) Tenant's Holdover Costs. "Tenant's Holdover
Costs" shall mean an amount, calculated on a daily basis, equal to amount by
which the holdover rental payments for the Existing Premises for the period of
such delay exceed the Minimum Rent rate applicable during the first Lease Year;
to the extent that Tenant is not permitted to holdover in any portion of the
Existing Premises and obtains substitute space for temporary occupancy purposes,
the commercially reasonable out-of-pocket costs of moving to and renting such
temporary space shall be considered "holdover rental payments" under the
foregoing calculation. The "Existing Premises" shall mean and refer to office
space being leased by Tenant under the leases applicable to such space as of the
date hereof: approximately 53,907 rentable square feet at 16875 West Bernardo
Drive, approximately 50,868 rentable square feet at 16855 West Bernardo Drive,
and approximately 3,200 rentable square feet at 16835 West Bernardo Drive.

                  (D) If none of the Leased Premises has been made available in
a Tenant Ready condition to permit Tenant to commence Tenant's Work by September
1, 1999 (which deadline shall be extended by Tenant Delay), Tenant shall have a
right to terminate this Lease by notice delivered to Landlord on or before
September 10, 1999; if this Lease is terminated in accordance with the foregoing
provision, this Lease shall be deemed to have expired in accordance with its
terms and Landlord and Tenant shall be relieved of liability for all obligations
arising thereafter under this Lease.

                  (E) The remedies provided in this Paragraph 2(e) shall be
Tenant's sole remedies for delays in completion of Landlord's Work; in no event
shall Landlord be liable for direct, actual, or consequential damages or lost
profits arising from such delay and Tenant shall have no right to terminate this
Lease as a result of such delay except as provided in this Paragraph 2(e).

                                       3
<PAGE>   19
                           (F) If Landlord is delayed in delivering any portion
of the Leased Premises Tenant Ready as a result of Tenant Delay or is delayed in
Substantial Completion of Landlord's Work as a result of Tenant Delay, Tenant's
obligation to pay Minimum Rent under Paragraph 4(b) shall commence on the date
that such obligations would have occurred but for such Tenant Delay.

                  3. Options to Extend. The Term of this Lease may be extended
by Tenant, at Tenant's sole option ("Renewal Option"), for two (2) consecutive
periods of five (5) years each (each, a "Renewal Period," and collectively,
"Renewal Periods"), from and after the expiration of the Initial Term by giving
Landlord prior written notice of the exercise of the Renewal Option elected by
Tenant not less than twelve (12) months before the end of the Initial Term or
six (6) months before the end of the then current Renewal Period, as the case
may be. If Tenant exercises a Renewal Option, all of the terms and provisions of
this Lease applicable during the Initial Term (including the Additional Rent
payable hereunder) shall be applicable to the Renewal Period in question without
execution of an extension or renewal lease but the Minimum Rent shall be
determined in accordance with Paragraph 4(b) below and Landlord shall have no
obligation to complete additional improvements or provide a tenant finish
allowance to Tenant.

                  4. Minimum Rent.

                  (a) Initial Term. Tenant agrees to pay to Landlord as minimum
rent ("Minimum Rent"), commencing on the Rent Commencement Date (except as
otherwise provided in Paragraph 2, above or elsewhere in this Lease) and
continuing through the remainder of the Initial Term, payable on the first day
of each month in advance (except that if the Rent Commencement Date is other
than the first of a month, the first monthly installment of Minimum Rent will be
pro-rated on a per diem basis, and the last installment of Minimum Rent will be
due and payable on the Expiration Date) as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                  Year                  Monthly Minimum Rent
                  ----                  --------------------
<S>                                     <C>
                  First                 $153,152.00
                  Second                $157,747.00
                  Third                 $162,479.00
                  Fourth                $167,353.00
                  Fifth                 $172,374.00
                  Sixth                 $177,545.00
                  Seventh               $182,871.00
                  Eighth                $188,358.00
                  Ninth                 $194,008.00
                  Tenth                 $199,829.00
</TABLE>

                  (b) Renewal Terms. Tenant agrees to pay as monthly Minimum
Rent during each of the Renewal Terms, if exercised by Tenant, an amount,
payable on the first day of each month in advance, determined in accordance with
the following provisions:

                                       4
<PAGE>   20
                  (A) The monthly Minimum Rent for the first Lease year of the
applicable Renewal Term shall equal the greater of (x) 103% of the monthly
Minimum Rent applicable during the last month of the month preceding the
commencement of the respective Renewal Term, and (z) the Fair Market Rental
Value for the Leased Premises.

                  (B) The monthly Minimum Rent for each Lease Year of the
respective Renewal Term following the first Lease Year shall be an amount equal
to 103% of the monthly Minimum Rent applicable to the immediately preceding
Lease Year (so that the annual Minimum Rent shall increase by 3% each Lease
Year following the first Lease Year).

                  (C) If Tenant exercises its Renewal Option by notice in
accordance with Paragraph 3, Landlord shall give Tenant written notice of
Landlord's determination of Fair Market Rental Value by the later of (x) the
first business day of the eleventh month preceding the Renewal Term for which
Minimum Rent is to be determined, and (y) 30 days following receipt of Tenant's
notice exercising its Renewal Option under Paragraph 3 above. If Tenant notifies
Landlord within thirty (30) days after receipt of Landlord's determination of
Fair Market Rental Value that Tenant disputes such determination, Fair Market
Rental Value shall be determined according to the procedures set forth in
subparagraph E below. If Tenant does not notify Landlord that it disputes
Landlord's determination of Fair Market Rental Value within the time period
herein provided, Tenant shall be deemed to have accepted such determination.

                  (D) The "Fair Market Rental Value" for the Leased Premises
shall mean: the monthly payment based on the annual amount per square foot
(exclusive of Additional Rent) that a willing tenant would pay and a willing
landlord would accept following arms-length negotiations with respect to an
"Assumed Lease" (as defined below) under the circumstances as of the
determination. "Assumed Lease" means (i) a lease of a "Comparable Building" for
a term equal to the Renewal Term, scheduled to commence at the time such Renewal
Term is scheduled to commence; and (ii) taking into consideration and making
adjustment to reflect allowances and concessions (provided, however, that such
assumption shall not obligate Landlord to pay any allowances or contributions or
to complete any Landlord Work). "Comparable Building" shall mean any first class
suburban office building in the Rancho Bernardo area which is of a size and
quality reasonably comparable to the Leased Premises; provided that, to the
extent such comparable buildings are not identical, appropriate adjustments
shall be made to adjust for differences in the size, location, age, efficiency
of floorplate, quality of buildings, and type and amount of parking between such
other buildings and the Leased Premises.

                  (E) Whenever it is necessary to determine Fair Market Rental
Value for purposes of this Lease, Landlord and Tenant shall confer and attempt
to agree as to such Fair Market Rental Value. If either party concludes after
conferring with the other that agreement is unlikely to be reached it shall
notify the other of such conclusion and each party shall, within fifteen days
after the date of such notice, notify the other party of the name of a qualified
appraiser selected by such party to participate in the determination of Fair
Market Rental Value, and the two appraisers so selected, within thirty (30) days
after their selection, shall select a third qualified appraiser to participate
in such determination; if they are unable to agree on a third appraiser, the
selection shall be made by the highest

                                        5
<PAGE>   21
officer in the San Diego chapter of the American Institute of Real Estate
Appraisers, or its successor, who is a qualified appraiser. Within fifteen (15)
days of selection of the third appraiser, each of the two appraisers selected by
Landlord and Tenant shall state, in writing, the appraiser's determination of
the Fair Market Rental Value supported by the reasons therefor and shall make
counterpart copies for each of the other appraisers, under an arrangement for
simultaneous exchange of the determinations. The role of the third appraiser
shall be to select whichever of the two proposed resolutions most closely
approximates the third appraiser's own determination of the Fair Market Rental
Value. The third appraiser shall have no right to propose a middle ground or any
modifications of either of the two proposed resolutions. The resolution the
third appraiser chooses as the most closely approximating the third appraiser's
determination shall constitute the determination of Fair Market Rental Value and
shall be final and binding upon the parties. For purposes of this subparagraph
the term "qualified appraiser" means a person who has been designated by the
American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers as a M.A.I. (Member Appraisal
Institute) (or its equivalent) and who has been for at least the four most
recent years a M.A.I. in good standing, who has for at least the four most
recent years been regularly engaged in appraising commercial real estate in the
San Diego metropolitan area, who has no financial interest in either party to
this Lease, is not related by blood or marriage to any officer or director of
either party and has not been an officer or director of either party. If either
party fails to notify the other of such party's choice of a qualified appraiser,
the qualified appraiser selected by the notifying party shall make the
determination of Fair Market Rental Value. The Fair Market Rental Value
determined in accordance with the procedures described above shall be final and
binding on both parties, absent fraud or flagrant disregard of the standards set
forth in this Lease by one or more of the appraisers. Each party shall pay the
costs of the appraiser selected by it and share the cost of the third appraiser.
In the event of a failure, refusal or inability of any appraiser to act, the
appraiser shall appoint a successor, but in the case of the third appraiser, a
successor shall be appointed in the same manner as provided above with respect
to appointment of the original third appraiser. Any decision on procedures and
interpretations of the standards set forth herein in which the appraisers for
Landlord and Tenant concur shall be binding and conclusive upon the parties,
except that such appraisers shall not attempt by themselves to mutually
ascertain the Fair Market Rental Value.

                  (c) Late Interest. In any case where: (i) any installment of
Minimum Rent or Additional Rent is not paid when the same is due, or (ii) any
other sum or charge which is owing from Tenant to Landlord hereunder, is not
paid within fifteen (15) days after the same is due and payable or within any
cure period applicable thereto, whichever is later, then such amount shall
thereafter bear interest at an annual rate (the "Interest Rate") which is equal
to three percent (3%) over the "prime rate" then being quoted in the Money Rates
section (or similar section if renamed or eliminated) of The Wall Street Journal
or, if such publication is not in existence, the prime rate published in a
similar national business-oriented newspaper or publication.

         5. Assessments - Under Declaration. Tenant will pay when due, to the
party or parties entitled thereto, all assessments owing for periods following
the Rent Commencement Date through the Expiration Date with respect to the
Leased Premises under the Declaration; Tenant shall provide evidence of payment
to Landlord for each such

                                       6
<PAGE>   22
payment on or prior to the date such payments are due. Such assessments will be
pro-rated between Landlord and Tenant on a per diem basis for any period
preceding the Rent Commencement Date or following the Expiration Date
constituting part of an assessment period.


                  6. Real Estate Taxes.

                           (a) Real Estate Taxes Defined. The term "Real Estate
Taxes" shall mean all ad valorem real estate taxes which may be assessed,
levied, or imposed upon the Leased Premises for any period during the Initial
Term and the Renewal Period from and after the Rent Commencement Date and all
other assessments, fees and other governmental charges and levies, of any kind
or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, assessments, fees, levies
and charges imposed for public improvements or benefits, or for public services
such as fire protection, street, sidewalk and road maintenance or refuse
removal, and interest on unpaid installments) which may be levied, assessed or
imposed, or become liens upon or arise out of the use, occupancy, ownership, or
possession of the Leased Premises, and which accrue during or are allocable to
the Term. "Real Estate Taxes" shall include amounts required to be paid under
the Bond issued under the 1915 Act for Improvement of 4S Ranch, District 89-1
("89-1 Bond"), and supplemental taxes or assessments pursuant to the California
Revenue and Taxation Code, but shall not include building permit fees, utility
tap fees and similar one time fees incurred in connection with the initial
construction of the Building and related improvements. Tenant shall pay to the
Escrow Agent monthly, on each date on which a payment of Minimum Rent is due,
1/12 of such amount as the Escrow Agent from time to time estimates will be
required to pay all Real Estate Taxes required to be paid. The Escrow Agent's
estimates shall be based on the amounts actually payable or, if unknown, on the
amounts actually paid for the year preceding that for which such payments are
being made. Any deficiencies shall be promptly paid by Tenant to the Escrow
Agent on demand. When the Escrow Agent has received from Tenant or on its
account funds sufficient to pay the same, the Escrow Agent shall pay such Real
Estate Tax bills. If the amount paid by Tenant in any year exceeds the aggregate
required, such excess shall be applied to Real Estate Taxes payments for the
succeeding year. "Escrow Agent" means (i) the Mortgagee, if such Mortgagee
elects to act in such capacity pursuant to tax payment escrow provisions of the
applicable loan documents, or otherwise (ii) a title company or other escrow
agent selected by Landlord. The Escrow Agent's fees for holding and disbursing
such amounts shall be paid by Tenant and Tenant shall have the right to receive
any interest earned on amounts held in escrow, if any; such escrow shall be used
solely for payment of Real Estate Taxes (including reimbursement of Landlord for
Real Estate Taxes advanced by Landlord, if applicable) and such fees (if not
otherwise paid by Tenant) and for no other purpose. Tenant shall have a right to
prepay the amounts due under the 89-1 Bond in accordance with its terms, but
such prepayment shall not be credited against payment of Rent or be pro-rated in
the event the Lease terminates or expires prior to the date of which the 89-1
Bond payments would otherwise have been paid.

                           (b) Payments in Lieu of Taxes. If at any time during
the Term of this Lease the methods of taxation prevailing on the date hereof
shall be altered so that in lieu of or as a substitute for the whole or any part
of the ad valorem real estate taxes now levied, assessed or imposed on real
estate as such, there shall be levied, assessed or imposed

                                       7
<PAGE>   23
a tax ("Alternative Tax") on the rents received from such real estate, or a
license fee measured by rents, a so-called "value-added tax" or other tax in
lieu or fee resulting from revision of the present real estate tax structure,
then the Alternative Tax shall thereafter be included as Real Estate Taxes.

                           (c) Right to Contest Assessments. Landlord and Tenant
agree to consult with each other and to keep each other advised concerning the
assessment and/or tax rate for any Real Estate Taxes and any controversy or
contest pertaining to any Real Estate Tax. Tenant shall have the right, but not
the obligation, to protest or appeal any such assessment and/or tax rate and to
petition for a refund or rebate of the whole or part of any Real Estate Taxes
and to carry on any proper proceedings, legal or otherwise, in connection
therewith; provided, however, (i) Tenant shall pay the amounts under protest or
appeal to the Escrow Agent and, to the extent that such Real Estate Taxes are
due to be paid to the applicable Authorities prior to final resolution of such
protest or appeal, the Escrow Agent shall pay the applicable taxes, but with
notice of protest if requested by Tenant; (ii) Tenant shall comply with all
laws, orders, rules and regulations respecting such contest; and (iii) give
Landlord prior written notice of Tenant's intent to contest the amount or
validity and provide Landlord will copies of any notices filed or documents
submitted with regard to any such proceeding. If required by law, Tenant shall
have the right to take such action in the name of Landlord, and Landlord shall
cooperate with Tenant to the extent Tenant may reasonably require; provided,
however, Tenant shall indemnify and save Landlord harmless from and against all
loss, cost, damage and expense as a result thereof. As to Real Estate Taxes
attributable to periods prior to the Rent Commencement Date, to the last year of
the Term (after Tenant has waived or no longer has any Renewal Option), or upon
an Event of Default, Landlord shall have a right to initiate and prosecute such
proceedings if Tenant fails to initiate or prosecute such proceedings, or
participate in such proceedings if Tenant initiates and prosecutes such
proceedings. Landlord will furnish Tenant, on request, with prior tax receipts,
bills or other data and execute any instruments, which Tenant may deem necessary
or proper for the purpose of said protest or review, and such authorization or
allegations as may be necessary therefor. The cost and expense of any such
proceeding instituted by Tenant shall be borne by Tenant and in the event Tenant
shall obtain an abatement, reduction or refund, Tenant shall be entitled to the
entire amount thereof (except to the extent any portion thereof represents Real
Estate Taxes paid by Landlord respecting periods before the Rent Commencement
Date or after the expiration of the Term), and if any sums to which Tenant is
entitled are paid by the taxing authority to Landlord, Landlord will promptly
pay the same to Tenant. If any proceedings shall be instituted by Landlord, the
entire cost and expense of any such proceeding shall be borne by Landlord, but
in the event Landlord shall obtain an abatement, reduction or refund, there
shall be first deducted from any abatement, reduction or refund, and prior to
any adjustment with Tenant, the entire amount of Landlord's cost including
reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred in connection therewith. In any tax period
for which an abatement, reduction or refund shall be obtained, whether by
Landlord or Tenant, an appropriate adjustment or refund shall be made by
Landlord to Tenant in the amount due from or paid by Tenant on account of Real
Estate Taxes.

                           (d) Items Excluded. Nothing herein contained shall
require Tenant to pay any share of municipal, state, federal income, gross
receipts or excess profits taxes assessed against Landlord, or municipal, state
or federal capital levy, estate, succession,

                                        8
<PAGE>   24
inheritance or transfer taxes of Landlord, or corporation franchise taxes
imposed upon any corporate owner of the fee of the Leased Premises, or any tax
of any kind whatsoever which may be imposed on Landlord or the rents payable
except the ad valorem Real Estate Taxes described in this Paragraph 6, the
Alternative Tax described in subparagraph (b) above or amounts to be paid in
accordance with Paragraph 21.

                           (e) Personal Property Taxes. Tenant shall pay, before
delinquency, all taxes and assessments levied against, or on account of, all
fixtures, equipment and personal property located in or upon the Leased
Premises, even if such taxes do not becomes a lien against Landlord's interest
in the Leased Premises.

                  7. Plans and Specifications.

                  (a) Building; Preliminary Drawings. The Building will be a
first class suburban general purpose office building of approximately 130,000
gross square feet and 3 stories and a parking structure, with a footprint
substantially as shown on the final working drawings and specifications for
Landlord's Work listed on EXHIBIT "D" attached (the "Final Plans and
Specifications"), and otherwise substantially in accordance with the Final Plans
and Specifications. The Final Plans and Specifications have been approved by
Landlord and Tenant.


                  (b) Architect, Final Plans and Specifications.

                           (1) The Final Plans and Specifications have been
prepared by Landlord's architect (the "Landlord's Architect"). To the extent
that the Final Plans and Specifications are incomplete or lack details, Landlord
shall develop additional plans and specifications, based on the scope of the
project as is described in the Final Plans and Specifications (the "Scope"),
subject to the approval of Tenant. Landlord shall give prior written notice to
Tenant (by notice to Tenant's construction representative, Scott Vogt and Ann
McFadden, which shall not be required to be made in accordance with Paragraph
42) of such additional plans and specifications; Tenant shall be deemed to
approve such changes unless Tenant delivers to Landlord comments objecting to
such additional plans and specifications within 5 business days following
receipt by Tenant's construction representatives. Tenant shall have the right to
request changes in the additional plans and specifications. If Landlord and
Tenant agree that such changes are logically within the Scope, Landlord shall
make such changes at Landlord's sole cost and expense. If Landlord and Tenant
agree that such changes are logically outside the Scope, Landlord shall make
such changes but the costs of such changes shall be borne by Tenant. If Landlord
and Tenant dispute whether such changes are logically within the Scope, Landlord
shall make and pay for such changes in aggregate up to $60,000.00 and costs in
excess of $60,000.00 shall be borne by Tenant (or settled by arbitration in
accordance with Paragraph 7(d)). If changes to the additional plans and
specifications requested by Tenant (other than changes necessary to make the
additional plans and specifications complete) cause delay in completion of
Landlord's Work (beyond the time otherwise required for completion of the
additional plans and specifications as proposed by Landlord), such delay shall
be deemed a Tenant Delay. To the extent that the aggregate cost of all such
changes to the additional plans and specifications requested by Tenant are less
than $60,000.00, the difference may be used first as a credit

                                        9
<PAGE>   25
against the costs of changes in the Final Plans and Specifications requested by
Tenant under Paragraph 7(b)(ii) below and, if there is any balance remaining,
second to be added to Landlord's Contribution and disbursed to Tenant in
accordance with Paragraph 13.

                           (ii) Landlord shall have the right to request or
approve changes in the Final Plans and Specifications based on conditions
discovered on-site and arising in construction of Landlord's Work and to request
or approve changes involving substitution of materials if required as a result
of such conditions or the non-availability of materials specified in the Final
Plans and Specifications, subject to the approval of Tenant in accordance with
the following provisions. Landlord shall give prior written notice (by notice to
Tenant's construction representative, Scott Vogt and Ann McFadden, which shall
not be required to be made in accordance with Paragraph 42) of such changes to
Tenant; to the extent prior written notice is not practicable, Tenant shall be
informed of such changes orally (but supplemented or confirmed by fax to both
such representatives at (215) 674-1442), and thereafter be provided with written
description of such changes within 48 hours. Tenant shall be deemed to approved
such changes unless Tenant delivers to Landlord comments objecting to such
changes (x) within 16 business hours for changes involving substitution of
materials, and (y) within 8 business hours as to all other changes. Tenant shall
have the right to approve or reasonably object to such changes in the Final
Plans and Specifications for: (1) consistency with Tenant's Plans and
Specifications; (2) compliance with applicable laws and with the Declaration;
(3) matters which Tenant reasonably believes would increase Tenant's maintenance
costs over the Term; (4) consistency with the workmanship and materials
specified in Tenant's Plans and Specifications; and (5) quality, appearance and
cost of such changes. In all other respects, the Final Plans and Specifications
shall be under the control of Landlord and the Landlord's Architect. If Tenant
requests changes in the Final Plans and Specifications (other than as provided
in Paragraph 7(b)(i) above with respect to the additional plans and
specifications, which changes are governed thereby), such changes shall be
subject to the approval of Landlord and Tenant shall pay the cost of all such
changes (to the extent that the changes increase the cost of completing the
portion of Landlord's Work, after taking into account cost savings arising from
such changes) and all delays caused by such changes shall be deemed Tenant
Delay.

                  (c) Plan Submission. Tenant's architect ("Tenant's Architect")
shall prepare plans and specifications for Tenant's Work, which shall be subject
to approval by Landlord, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed. Landlord's approval of the plans and specifications and changes thereto
shall be determined on the basis of three respects only: (i) compliance with
applicable laws and with the Declaration; and (ii) matters which Landlord
reasonably believes would increase Landlord's structural maintenance costs over
the Term and consistency with the mechanical, electrical and other systems in
Landlord's Work; and (iii) consistency with the workmanship and materials
specified in the Final Plans and Specifications. In all other respects, Tenant's
Plans and Specifications shall be under the control of Tenant and Tenant's
Architect. Upon approval, the plans and specifications shall be deemed "Tenant's
Plans and Specifications" and shall be listed on EXHIBIT "E" , to be attached
following such approval, which is anticipated to occur following the execution
hereof. Tenant shall have the right to request or approve changes in the
Tenant's Plans and Specifications based on conditions discovered on-site and
arising in construction of Tenant's Work, changes as are necessary or advisable
in order to suit the

                                       10
<PAGE>   26
Leased Premises for its intended operation as Tenant's offices, or for any other
reasons in Tenant's discretion; such changes shall be subject to approval by
Landlord (in accordance with the standards set forth above). Landlord shall be
deemed to approved such changes unless Landlord delivers to Tenant comments
objecting to such changes (i) within 8 business hours for changes involving
substitution of materials, and (ii) within 4 business hours as to all other
changes.

                  (d) Dispute Resolution. In the event of any dispute between
Landlord and Tenant as to any plan, the issue will be referred initially to the
Landlord's Architect, who shall advise the parties as to the issue and attempt
to resolve the dispute. If the parties shall not have reached agreement within 2
days after the matter shall have been referred to the Architect, then the
dispute shall be resolved by binding arbitration conducted in San Diego,
California by and under the Construction Industry Rules of the American
Arbitration Association and the conclusion of the arbitrator(s) will be final,
conclusive and binding on the parties.

                  (e) Replacement Architect. Landlord may from time to time
replace Landlord's Architect with another architect duly licensed in California
and qualified to design a building and related improvements comparable to those
intended hereunder, provided that the replacement of such Landlord's Architect
shall be subject to the prior approval of any Mortgagee, if required under the
applicable loan documents. Tenant may from time to time replace Tenant's
Architect with another architect duly licensed in California and qualified to
design a building and related improvements comparable to those intended
hereunder, provided that the replacement of such Tenant's Architect shall be
subject to the prior approval of Landlord, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

                  8. Construction: Landlord's Work; Landlord's Improvements.
Landlord will, at Landlord's expense, diligently and in good faith construct and
complete Landlord's Work in compliance with the Final Plans and Specifications,
using all new first quality materials, in a good and workerlike manner and in
compliance with all laws, orders, rules, regulations and Permits (as defined in
subparagraph 28(b)(i), below) of all Authorities (as defined in subparagraph
28(b)(i), below) having jurisdiction thereof, with any direction by any public
officer pursuant to law and in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
Lease. "Landlord's Work" shall mean the work to be completed in accordance with
the Final Plans and Specifications (excluding those items of Tenant's Work that
are noted on the Final Plans and Specifications for information purposes only,
if any). "Landlord's Improvements" shall mean Landlord's Work and the portion of
Tenant's Work as described on EXHIBIT "F".

                  9. Timing of Landlord's Work. Upon commencement of Landlord's
Work on the Leased Premises, Landlord will thereafter pursue such work
diligently, continuously and in good faith to completion, subject to Unavoidable
Delay and normal construction scheduling delays. "Tenant Ready" with respect to
each floor of the Building shall mean that Landlord shall have completed the
following portions of Landlord's Work on the Building, as determined by
Landlord's Architect, so that Tenant can commence construction of Tenant's Work
on the respective floor: structure complete, roofing in place, exterior glazing
complete, building core partitions in place, concrete floor complete, electrical
panels installed with service available, rooftop HVAC units installed and

                                       11
<PAGE>   27
functional, high pressure ductwork installed, and fire protection mains and
branch Lines complete with heads at tees. "Tenant Ready Date" shall mean the
date on which all floors of the Building are Tenant Ready. "Substantial
Completion" of Landlord's Work shall mean there has been substantial completion
of all of Landlord's Work in accordance with the Final Plans and Specifications
as determined by Landlord's Architect in accordance with normal architectural
tolerances and standards, except for Punchlist Items. "Completion Date" shall
mean the date on which Substantial Completion occurs. "Punchlist Items" shall
mean items the completion of which will not interfere with Tenant's ability to
commence occupying the Building for purposes of doing business, including
landscaping and cosmetic items; Landlord's Architect in consultation with
Landlord and Tenant shall prepare a list of Punchlist Items as of the Completion
Date ("Landlord's Punchlist"). Landlord shall complete the items set forth on
Landlord's Punchlist as soon as reasonably practicable following the Completion
Date.

                 10. Landlord's Construction Warranties. Landlord shall obtain
customary construction warranties under its construction contracts for all
Landlord's Work providing for completion in accordance with the Final Plans and
Specifications, free of defects in materials and workmanship for a period of one
(1) year from the date of occupancy or such longer period as may be covered
under such warranties.

                 11. Landlord's Financial Condition. At the time Landlord
obtains a commitment for a construction loan for construction of Landlord's Work
and Landlord's Contribution, Landlord shall provide evidence to Tenant (which
may be disclosed within a loan commitment that requires the Landlord to maintain
such cash equity at the time of loan funding) that Landlord has or will have not
less than $12,000,000.00 in equity at the time such loan is initially to be
funded.

                 12. Tenant's Work. Tenant shall enter into the Leased Premises
for purposes of commencing Tenant's Work when Tenant has received a notice from
Landlord that the respective floor of the Leased Premises is Tenant Ready and,
thereafter, Tenant shall pursue such work diligently, continuously and in good
faith to completion. Tenant shall have the right to commence work on portions of
the Leased Premises in advance of the date that a respective portion is Tenant
Ready, provided that such work does not interfere with or delay Landlord's Work.
Tenant shall, in a good and workerlike manner, cause the Leased Premises to be
improved and completed at Tenant's expense (but with the benefit of Landlord's
contribution as provided below) and in accordance with Tenant's Plans and
Specifications, which work shall include all permanent improvements necessary
(beyond Landlord's Work) for Tenant's use and operation within the Leased
Premises (including materials, supplies, components, labor and services
therefor) ("Tenant's Work"). Tenant shall contract for completion of Tenant's
Work under contracts providing customary retainages to be paid following
completion. "Tenant's Improvements" shall mean Tenant's Work exclusive of the
items described on EXHIBIT "F". Tenant's Improvements shall be deemed the
property of Tenant; Landlord's Improvements shall be deemed the property of
Landlord. During the course of construction of Tenant's Work, Tenant may make
such changes to Tenant's Plans and Specifications as are ordinary and necessary
or advisable in order to suit the Leased Premises for its intended operation as
Tenant's offices, provided that copies of any changes shall be delivered to
Landlord for Landlord's information and such

                                       12
<PAGE>   28
changes shall be subject to the provisions of Paragraph 7(c). If Tenant fails to
complete and obtain certificates of occupancy for Tenant's Work within twelve
(12) months following the Tenant Ready Date (which 12-month period shall be
extended by Landlord Delay and Unavoidable Delay), Landlord shall have the right
to elect, by not less than ten (10) days prior notice to Tenant, to complete
such portion of Tenant's Work as are necessary to obtain a certificate of
occupancy and the costs of completion of such work shall be deducted from the
undisbursed portion of Landlord's Contribution. To the extent that such costs
exceed the undisbursed portion of Landlord's Contribution, Tenant shall pay such
amounts as Additional Rent, together with interest thereon at the rate of twelve
percent (12%) per annum from the date such amounts are expended by Landlord
within fifteen (15) days of billing by Landlord.

                  13. Landlord's Contribution for Tenant's Work. Landlord shall
pay to Tenant the sum of Two Million Four Hundred Thousand Dollars ($2,400,000)
("Landlord's Contribution"), which amount is intended as consideration for
completion of Tenant's Work, as follows:

                           (a) On or before the first day of each month during
the course of Tenant's Work, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord a statement
setting forth the total costs and expenses incurred by Tenant in connection with
the procurement and performance of Tenant's Work for the preceding month along
with appropriate lien waivers and such other documentation as Landlord may
reasonably require, requested within 7 days after Landlord receives Tenant's
request for payment; on the last day of the month (subject to delay caused by
Landlord's failure to receive the additional documentation requested), Landlord
shall pay to Tenant an amount equal to the costs and expenses specified on the
statement, not to exceed in the aggregate the amount of Landlord's Contribution.
Such payment shall be by delivery to Tenant of Landlord's checks or wire
transfers payable to Tenant or, at Landlord's option, payable to Tenant and the
respective contractor.

                           (b) Upon Substantial Completion of Tenant's Work,
which substantial completion shall be evidenced by a certification of the
Tenant's Architect and copies of all appropriate lien waivers, Landlord shall
pay to Tenant a sum equal to the difference, if any, between all payments
theretofore paid to Tenant on account of Landlord's Contribution pursuant to
subparagraph (a) above, and the entire amount of Landlord's Contribution.

                           (c) If Landlord fails to pay Landlord's Contribution
in accordance with the foregoing provisions, Tenant's remedy shall be to offset
such unpaid amounts, together with interest thereon at the rate of twelve
percent (12%) per annum against the first Rent to be paid by Tenant under this
Lease upon not less than ten (10) days prior notice of Tenant's election to
withhold to Landlord and Landlord's Mortgagee; provided, however, that if
Landlord or the Mortgagee disputes, by notice to Tenant within such ten (10) day
period, that such amounts are owed by Landlord, Tenant shall have no right to
withhold such amounts until the amounts are found to be due Tenant by
arbitration.

                  14. Manner of Tenant's Work. All of Tenant's Work shall be
performed in a good and workerlike manner and in compliance with all laws,
orders, rules and regulations of all governmental authorities having
jurisdiction thereof and with any direction by any

                                       13
<PAGE>   29
public officer pursuant to law, including Zoning and Building Laws (as
hereinafter defined), in compliance with the Declaration, and in accordance with
the terms and conditions of this Lease.

                  15. Construction Cooperation. Each party during the course of
its Work shall not unreasonably interfere with the other's Work and each party
shall reasonably cooperate with the other so that each party may perform and
complete its Work in a proper and timely fashion.

                  16. Landlord Delay; Tenant Delay/Governmental Inducements.
"Landlord Delay" means delay caused by Landlord, Landlord's agents and
employees, and delay by Landlord's contractors in performance of Landlord's
Work. "Tenant Delay" means delay caused by Tenant, Tenant's agents and
employees, and delay by Tenant's contractors in performance of Tenant's Work.

                  17. Use and Occupancy of Leased Premises. Tenant shall not use
or occupy, or permit or suffer to be used or occupied, the Leased Premises or
any part thereof, other than for the Permitted Use. The term "Permitted Use"
shall mean: general office use for administrative, clerical, and professional
office purposes (the "Primary Use") and for all activities ancillary thereto,
such as (i) kitchens, pantries and dining rooms for the feeding of employees and
guests of Tenant, (ii) vending machines and snack bars for the sale of food,
(iii) business machines, equipment for printing, reproducing forms, circulars
and other materials used in connection with the conduct of Tenant's business,
(iv) libraries for employees of Tenant, (v) computer and other electronic data
processing equipment, (vi) board rooms and conference rooms, (vii) training
rooms for employees and customers of Tenant, (viii) ancillary services such as
day care and pickup/dropoff for off-site laundry primarily for the benefit of
Tenant's employees (although such services may also be open to the general
public) (the uses specified under clauses (i)-(viii) are referred to
collectively as the "Ancillary Uses"), provided that Ancillary Uses shall not be
the primary use of the Leased Premises; in addition, Tenant shall have the right
to use the Leased Premises for such other uses as are permitted by Requirements
that are expressly approved by Landlord, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld if such uses are consistent with first class suburban
general office building uses ("Specially Approved Uses"). Tenant shall be
responsible for obtaining any approvals or permits required for the Ancillary
Uses or Specially Approved Uses under Zoning and Building Laws and the
Declaration.

                  18. Hazardous Materials.

                           (a) Definitions. "Hazardous Materials" shall mean any
chemical, material, substance or waste (i) exposure to which is prohibited,
limited or regulated by any federal, state, county, regional or local authority,
or other governmental authority of any nature, that has jurisdiction over the
Leased Premises or (ii) which, even if not so regulated, may or could pose a
hazard to the health or safety of the occupants of the Leased Premises (herein
collectively "Hazardous Materials"). As herein used Hazardous Materials shall
include petroleum, crude oil (any fraction thereof), natural gas, natural gas
liquids, and those substances defined as "hazardous substances," "hazardous
materials," "hazardous wastes," or other similar designations in the
Comprehensive Environmental

                                       14
<PAGE>   30
Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, 42 U.S.C. Section
9601 et seq., the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 6901
et seq., the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. Section 1801 et
seq. and any other governmental statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, regulations,
and precautions.

                           (b) Tenant's Warranty and Covenants. Tenant shall
strictly comply with all statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and
precautions now or hereafter mandated or advised by any federal, state, local or
other governmental agency with respect to the use, generation, storage, or
disposal of Hazardous Materials. Tenant shall not cause, or allow any one else
to cause, any Hazardous Materials to be used, generated, stored, or disposed of
on or about the Leased Premises (other than de minimis amounts used in
construction or normal office building operations consistent with applicable
industry standards and applicable laws) without the prior written consent of
Landlord, which consent may be withheld in the reasonable discretion of
Landlord. Tenant's indemnification of Landlord pursuant to this Lease shall
extend to all liability, including all foreseeable and unforeseeable
consequential damages, directly or indirectly arising out of the use,
generation, storage, or disposal of Hazardous Materials by Tenant or any person
claiming under Tenant, including, without limitation, the cost of any required
or necessary repair, cleanup, or detoxification and the preparation of any
closure or other required plans, whether such action is required or necessary
prior to or following the termination of this Lease, to the full extent that
such action is attributable, directly or indirectly, to the use, generation,
storage, or disposal of Hazardous Materials by Tenant, its agents, employees,
contractors, or invitees, or any person claiming under Tenant. Neither the
written consent by Landlord to the use, generation, storage, or disposal of
Hazardous Materials nor the strict compliance by Tenant with all statutes, laws,
ordinances, rules, regulations, and precautions pertaining to Hazardous
Materials shall excuse Tenant from Tenant's obligation of indemnification. In
addition to Landlord's indemnification rights, in the event Tenant is in breach
of the covenants herein, Landlord may, in its sole discretion, (i) declare an
Event of Default after notice and opportunity to cure in accordance with
Paragraph 43 and/or (ii) cause the Leased Premises to be free from the Hazardous
Material and all costs and expenses incurred by Landlord to effect the foregoing
shall be deemed Additional Rent hereunder and shall immediately be due and
payable from Tenant (together with interest thereon at the Interest Rate from
the date costs or expenses are incurred by Landlord). The representations and
obligations of Tenant under this Paragraph shall survive, notwithstanding the
termination or expiration of this Lease.

                  19. Tenant's Signs. Tenant shall have the right, at its sole
cost and expense, to post, paint, construct, attach and maintain the signage set
forth on Tenant's Plans and Specifications, to the extent permitted by law and
the Declaration ("Tenant's Signage"). Tenant may remove any or all of its signs
at or prior to the Expiration Date or as soon thereafter as is reasonably
practical; provided Tenant repairs any damage caused by such removal. Tenant
shall have the right to alter Tenant's Signage, subject to applicable law and
the Declaration.


                  20. Intentionally Omitted.

                  21. Utilities.

                                       15
<PAGE>   31
                           (a) Tenant to Pay Charges for Utilities. From and
after the Rent Commencement Date, Tenant agrees to pay, as Additional Rent, all
charges and deposits for water, gas, electricity, sanitary sewer, telephone and
other utility services (the "Utilities") for the Leased Premises during the
Term.

                           (b) Tenant Not Responsible for Assessments for
Utility Improvements. In no event shall Tenant pay, and Landlord shall be
responsible for, assessments for public improvements relating to the
construction, installation or improvement of any utility system in accordance
with the Final Plans and Specifications, if such assessment exists on the date
hereof or is imposed as a condition for the issuance of the Permits. Tenant
shall pay the installments coming due during the Term (prorated on a per diem
basis with Landlord for periods overlapping the beginning or end of the Term),
of any assessment against the Leased Premises other than those described in the
preceding sentence (and for such purpose, Tenant shall be entitled to elect to
pay such assessments over the longest permitted period); provided, however, that
if such assessments pertain to additional utility improvements requested by
Tenant, Tenant shall pay for the full cost of such assessments prior to the
expiration of the Term (without proration with Landlord).

                  22.      Maintenance and Repair.

                           (a) Tenant's Obligations. The Minimum Rent set forth
in Paragraph 4 is set on the assumption that Landlord will not have to pay any
expenses or incur any liabilities of any kind in any way relating to, or in
connection with, the Leased Premises during the Term from and after the Rent
Commencement Date, except as expressly assumed by Landlord elsewhere in this
Lease. Accordingly, Tenant will promptly pay all costs of every kind and
description relating to or arising out of the Leased Premises during the Term
from and after the Rent Commencement Date, except as expressly assumed by
Landlord elsewhere in this Lease. From and after the Rent Commencement Date,
Tenant agrees at its sole cost and expense, to provide maintenance and make all
repairs and replacements to the Leased Premises necessary to maintain it in good
order, condition and repair consistent with the continued operation of a
first-class suburban general purpose office building, reasonable wear and tear
excepted, and to maintain the Leased Premises in a clean and sanitary condition
throughout the Term; except that,

                                    (i) repairs or replacements required as a
result of fire or other casualty covered by the Tenant's Property Insurance
shall be governed by the provisions of Paragraph 36, whether or not caused by
the acts or negligence of Tenant, its agents or employees; and

                                    (ii) Tenant shall not be obligated to make
any Structural Repairs, as defined in subparagraph (b) below, unless the need
therefor results from the negligence of Tenant, its agents or employees, or to
the extent provided in Paragraph 36.

At Tenant's expense, Tenant shall enter into and keep in effect during the Term
(by renewing or entering into new contracts) maintenance contracts for repair
and maintenance of the systems for HVAC, elevator, electrical, elevator, life
safety and sprinklers (both landscaping and fire prevention), which contracts
shall include periodic maintenance in accordance

                                       16
<PAGE>   32
applicable industry standards consistent with warranty requirements; Tenant
shall provide copies of such contract(s) and evidence of payment to Landlord
upon request. Tenant's building engineers or other person in charge of
maintenance of the building shall maintain a maintenance/complaint log, keeping
track of any problems or complaints and service calls for Landlord's
Improvements. Landlord shall assign to Tenant all assignable warranties with
respect to Landlord's Work, including warranties with respect to the Building
Fixtures and Equipment, and, to the extent not assignable, Landlord shall
cooperate with Tenant in enforcing the terms and provisions of applicable
warranties upon request of Tenant, provided that Landlord shall bear all costs
of legal actions if Landlord elects to bring a legal action to enforce any such
warranties.

                           (b) Landlord's Obligations. Landlord agrees to make
all repairs and replacements which may be necessary to the structural support
system of the roof, foundation piers and stem walls, and structural elements of
exterior walls (including structural elements of curtain walls) and structural
elements of the parking structure (collectively such elements are referred to as
"Structure" and such repairs or replacement are "Structural Repairs") unless the
need therefore results from the negligence of Tenant, its agents or employees.
To the extent any repairs, replacements, renewals and alterations arise out of,
or are in any way caused by fire or other casualty, responsibility therefor is
governed by Paragraph 36 below. Tenant shall notify Landlord as soon as
reasonably practicable following discovery by Tenant or its maintenance
contractor of the existence of any condition which is believed to require
Structural Repairs. If Tenant is deprived of the use of any portion of the
usable space in the Building for more than two (2) consecutive business days
following notice to Landlord because of Landlord's making of any Structural
Repairs under the provisions of this Lease or because of Landlord's failure to
make said Structural Repairs, then, in addition to such other rights and
remedies as Tenant is expressly accorded under the terms of Paragraph 45 of this
Lease if applicable under such paragraph, the Minimum Rent and any Additional
Rent payable hereunder shall abate beginning at the end of such two (2) business
day period and ending when the respective portion is made usable. If only a
portion of the space in the Leased Premises is made unusable, such abatement
shall be based on the percentage that such unusable space constitutes of the
total space in the Building. Tenant's notice with respect to such condition
shall expressly reference its intention to abate rent and shall include a
description of the nature of such deprivation and the space affected; if
Landlord disputes Tenant's right to abate rent hereunder, Tenant shall have no
right to withhold the payment of Rent until such dispute is settled by agreement
of the parties or arbitration in accordance with Paragraph 59.


                   23.     Alterations.

                           (a) Tenant's Right to Make Alterations. Tenant, at
its own cost and expense, shall have the right to make such alterations,
restorations, replacements, improvements and installations ("Alterations") in,
of or to the Leased Premises, interior or exterior, structural or
non-structural, as Tenant deems necessary or desirable, but no Alterations shall
(i) increase the exterior dimensions of the Building, or (ii) materially reduce
the value of the Leased Premises or materially and adversely affect the
building systems servicing the Building or Structure. Tenant's Work shall not be
deemed Alterations, which shall be governed by the terms of Paragraph 14. In the
event that Tenant removes any

                                       17
<PAGE>   33
portion of Landlord's Improvements, Tenant shall replace such with improvements
or equipment of equal or greater value and quality of materials and
construction, and such replacements shall be deemed the property of Landlord.
The term "Alterations" shall not include any item which is a Tenant Fixture (as
defined in subparagraph 24(a), below). All exterior or Structure alterations to
the Building and Alterations that require or result in a change in the
capacities with respect to heating, air conditioning and ventilation systems
("HVAC"), plumbing systems or electrical systems shall require Landlord's prior
consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. All
Alterations with respect to installation of Tenant Fixtures on the roof or that
require any Alteration to the roof shall be subject to the provisions of
Paragraph 23(f).

                           (b) Requirements for Alterations. Tenant, in making
any Alterations, shall comply with all applicable laws, orders and regulations
of federal, state, county and municipal authorities, and with any direction
given by a public officer pursuant to law and with all regulations of any board
of fire underwriters having jurisdiction and with the Declaration. Tenant shall
obtain or cause to be obtained all building permits, licenses, temporary and
permanent certificates of occupancy and other governmental approvals which may
be required in connection with the making of Alterations. Landlord shall
cooperate with Tenant in the obtaining thereof and shall execute any documents
required in furtherance of such purpose. Tenant shall provide copies of proposed
plans prepared by an engineer or architect licensed in the State of California,
selected by Tenant, who may be an employee of Tenant, for all Alterations
requiring Landlord's prior consent and, following completion of such
Alterations, shall provide copies of and as-built plans; in addition, not less
than annually, Tenant shall provide Landlord with as-built plans reflecting all
Alterations completed by Tenant as of such date, except for cosmetic changes
(including repainting, recarpeting and signage). No Alteration shall injure the
safety of the Structure of the Building or diminish its value and all
Alterations shall be done in a good and workerlike manner. All Alterations
(other than cosmetic changes as described above or changes costing less than
$50,000.00 in the aggregate as to changes being completed as a project) shall be
conducted with plans prepared by an architect or engineer licensed in the State
of California, selected by Tenant, who may be an employee of Tenant and whose
scope of engagement shall be determined by Tenant within its business judgment.
The work of all Alterations shall be prosecuted with reasonable dispatch,
subject to Unavoidable Delays. Tenant shall procure or shall cause the
contractor for the work to procure insurance in accordance with Sections 32 and
33, including worker's compensation insurance, covering all persons employed in
connection with the work, before any work is begun.

                           (c) Removal of Alterations. Any Alterations made by
Tenant to the Leased Premises, except for replacement of any portion of
Landlord's Work or the Building Fixtures and Equipment and except for standard
suburban office tenant alterations completed in accordance with Paragraph 23(b)
above, shall, at the option of Landlord, either remain as part of the Leased
Premises or be removed therefrom at the expense of Tenant prior to the end of
the Term; provided, however, that Tenant shall have the right, by notice to
Landlord at the time consent is requested for Alterations (if applicable) or
prior to commencement of Alterations (as to Alterations for which consent is not
required), to request that Landlord acknowledge Landlord's election as to the
respective Alterations at such time, in which event such election shall govern.
Further, Landlord and Tenant agree that the Tenant Work shall

                                       18
<PAGE>   34
remain part of the Leased Premises at the end of the Term or upon earlier
termination. In the event of any such removal, Tenant shall repair any damage to
the Leased Premises caused by such removal (including the patching of holes in
ceilings, floors, floor coverings and walls resulting from the removal of
Alterations); however, Tenant shall not be obligated to restore the Leased
Premises to its original condition or to remove standard suburban office tenant
improvements.

                           (d) Insurance Proceeds for Alterations. Insurance
with regard to any Alterations shall be governed by the terms of Paragraph 36.

                           (e) Mechanics Liens.

                                    (i) Satisfaction of Claims. In connection
with the construction of Tenant's Work and any Alterations, Tenant shall cause
the payment of all proper and valid invoices and charges of all contractors,
subcontractors, suppliers, materialmen and similar parties who furnish services
or materials in connection with the construction process. In the event, in
connection with the construction of Tenant's Work and any Alterations, any party
ever records a mechanic's lien to enforce any claim for services or materials
alleged to have been provided in connection with the Leased Premises, Tenant
shall cause the same to be released of record within thirty (30) days after the
recordation thereof, and Tenant shall be liable to satisfy and cause a discharge
of any such mechanic's lien claim. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant shall
have the right to contest any such mechanic's lien claim, provided that Tenant
conducts such contest in a timely manner and with due diligence, and that Tenant
provides Landlord with such security in connection therewith as Landlord may
reasonably require. In the event Tenant loses any such contest, with all further
rights of appeal having expired, Tenant shall satisfy the mechanic's lien claim
in full prior to any foreclosure sale or other disposition of the Leased
Premises in order to satisfy the claim.

                                    (ii) Posting. Prior to commencement of
construction of the Tenant Work and thereafter prior to commencing any
Alterations, if Landlord gives written notice requesting same, Tenant shall
deliver notices to all contractors and subcontractors and post notices in
accordance with applicable law, in locations that will be visible by parties
performing any work, which notices shall state that Landlord is not responsible
for the payment of such work and setting forth such other information as may be
reasonably required pursuant to such statutory provisions.

                           (f) Rooftop Rights. Tenant shall have the exclusive
use of the rooftop of the Building, which Tenant may use for communications or
related purposes or for the purpose of providing mechanical or other services to
the Building consistent with such services commonly located in rooftop
facilities of suburban office Buildings. Tenant's use of the rooftop will be
subject to all applicable governmental requirements and the Declaration, and to
the provisions of subparagraph 23(b). Tenant shall not make any use of the
rooftop which would void or impair any warranty of the roof or of any other
component of the Building. Tenant will not damage the roof or any other
component of the Buildings in connection with the installation, maintenance or
use of the rooftop, and should any such damage occur Tenant will promptly
correct such damage at Tenant's sole cost and expense. At the expiration of the
Term, Tenant will remove at its expense all facilities installed by

                                       19
<PAGE>   35
Tenant on the rooftop and all connecting lines (to the extent such lines are
within utility chases constructed by Landlord) and will repair any damage
resulting from such removal. Tenant shall receive no abatement of Rent for any
period during which Tenant is prevented for any reason from using the rooftop
facilities. Tenant shall indemnify, defend and save Landlord, its agents and
employees harmless of and from all liability, loss, damage, costs or expenses,
including reasonable attorneys' fees, on account of any claims of any nature
whatsoever, including work performed, materials or supplies furnished, damage to
the property, injury to persons or electronic interference caused by Tenant's
use of the rooftop.

                  24. Tenant's Trade Fixtures.

                           (a) Installation of Trade Fixtures. Tenant shall have
the right, from time to time, throughout the Term of the Lease to install within
the Leased Premises and to attach thereto any trade fixtures, equipment or other
property ("Tenant Fixtures") whether owned by Tenant or by any subtenant,
assignee, licensee or concessionaire of Tenant or leased by Tenant from another
party ("Equipment Lessor"), deemed necessary by Tenant for the operation of its
business within the Leased Premises. All Tenant Fixtures installed in or
attached to the Leased Premises by Tenant shall remain the property of Tenant,
or of any subtenant, assignee, licensee or concessionaire of Tenant, or of any
Equipment Lessor; provided, however, that fixtures or equipment that are in
replacement of any Landlord's Improvements shall not be deemed Tenant Fixtures
but shall be deemed the property of Landlord and shall not be leased from
another party. Tenant shall have the right from time to time during the Term of
this Lease or at the expiration thereof either to leave any Tenant Fixtures
which it caused to be attached to or located on the Leased Premises or to remove
such Tenant Fixtures. In the event of such removal, Tenant agrees at its own
cost and expense to repair any damage caused to the Leased Premises by such
removal (including the patching of holes in ceilings, floors, floor coverings
and walls resulting from such removal and the capping or otherwise sealing
utility lines in accordance with applicable codes in such fashion that they can
be reconnected to replacement equipment and fixtures, in accordance with
industry standards); however, Tenant shall not be obligated to restore the
Leased Premises to its original condition. Any Tenant Fixtures so left by Tenant
at the end of the Term shall be deemed abandoned and become the property of the
Landlord without payment or offset.

                           (b) Waiver of Liens in Fixtures. In no event
(including a default under this Lease) shall Landlord have any statutory or
express contractual liens or lien rights in the Tenant Fixtures and Landlord
agrees to execute and deliver to Tenant and Equipment Lessor, within ten (10)
days after request therefor, any document (subject to Landlord's reasonable
approval) required by Tenant or Equipment Lessor in order to evidence the
foregoing; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not prevent Landlord from
obtaining a judgment lien against Tenant's property, including Tenant's interest
in Tenant Fixtures, following an Event of Default.

                  25. Surrender of Leased Premises. Tenant agrees that upon the
expiration of the Term, or upon the sooner termination of this Lease,
possession of the Leased Premises shall be surrendered to Landlord in the same
condition and repair as Tenant is required to maintain the Leased Premises and
Landlord's Improvements during the Term of this Lease,

                                       20
<PAGE>   36
ordinary wear and tear and damage by fire or other casualty excepted (subject to
the provisions of Paragraphs 24 and 33) and shall surrender all keys to the
Building, and every part thereof, to Landlord and all fixtures necessary to the
operation of the Building as a building, including, without limitation, all
heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment and machinery, pipes, ducts,
compressors, hardwood floors, wall-to-wall carpeting, and installed landscaping
equipment. At the time of surrender, Tenant shall inform Landlord of all
combinations on locks, safes and vaults, if any, in the Building and the Leased
Premises. Tenant's obligation to observe or perform this covenant shall survive
the expiration or termination of the Term.

                  26. Property in the Leased Premises. In no event whatsoever
shall Landlord be liable to Tenant for any loss or damage to personal property
which may at any time be in the Leased Premises. Landlord shall not be
responsible or liable to Tenant for any loss or damage resulting to Tenant or
its property from water, gas, steam, fire, or the bursting, stoppage or leaking
of sewer pipes, or from the heating or plumbing fixtures, or from electric
wires, or from gas or odors, or from roof leaks, or caused in any manner
whatsoever.

                  27. Landlord's Access to Leased Premises. Tenant shall permit
Landlord, upon at least one (1) business day's prior notice (and with only such
notice, if any, as may be reasonable in case of emergency), to enter upon the
Leased Premises during business hours or such other times as Tenant shall
reasonably determine (or at any time in case of emergency).

                           (a) to make repairs, changes, replacements and
restorations to the Leased Premises which are required hereunder to be made by
Landlord;

                           (b) during the Lease Year preceding the Expiration
Date (after Tenant has waived or no longer has any Renewal Option) or following
an Event of Default, to exhibit the Leased Premises to prospective tenants,
provided that Landlord shall not unreasonably interfere with the conduct of
business therein; and

                           (c) to inspect the Leased Premises or to exhibit the
Leased Premises to prospective owners or lenders or their representatives.

                  28. Zoning, Land Use Regulations, Utilities and Compliance
with Laws, Ordinances, and Requirements of Public Authorities.

                           (a) Zoning and Building Laws. Landlord has provided
Tenant with a copy of a Final Decision of the Zoning Administrator dated April
18, 1997, evidencing the existing zoning applicable to the Leased Premises.
Prior to the execution hereof, Tenant shall have had the right to verify that
the applicable building, zoning, subdivision or other land use and planning
codes, statutes, ordinances and regulations ("Zoning and Building Laws") and the
Declaration permit the use of the Leased Premises for the operation of a general
purpose office building, including, without limitation, an office building for
the origination, processing and servicing of mortgage loans and the parking of
motor vehicles in connection therewith.

                                       21
<PAGE>   37
                           (b) Permits; Compliance with Governmental
Requirements.

                                    (i) Landlord, at its sole cost and expense,
shall obtain or cause to be obtained prior to the commencement of construction
hereunder, all permits, licenses, and other approvals ("Permits"), with all
applicable appeal periods having expired and in final, irrevocable and
uncontestable form, necessary and required by all federal, state, and municipal
governments, courts, departments, commissions, boards, any architectural control
or similar body whose approval is required pursuant to the Declaration (the
"Authorities"), for the lawful construction of Landlord's Work (other than
certificates of occupancy or similar permits which may only issue upon
completion of construction). To the extent that Permits for construction of
Landlord's Work also require simultaneous submission or approval of some or all
Permits for Tenant's Work (as referred to in subparagraph (ii) below), Tenant
shall cooperate with Landlord in submitting plans and applications for and
obtaining such Permits in accordance with Landlord's schedule for completion of
Landlord's Work.

                                    (ii) To the extent not included in the
Permits obtained under Paragraph 28(b)(i), Tenant, at its sole cost and expense,
shall obtain or cause to be obtained prior to the commencement of construction
of Tenant's Work hereunder, all Permits, with all applicable appeal periods
having expired and in final, irrevocable and uncontestable form, necessary and
required by all Authorities, for the lawful construction of Tenant's Work (other
than certificates of occupancy or similar permits which may only issue upon
completion of construction).

                                    (iii) Subject to Tenant's right to contest
by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted in good faith, throughout the
term of this Lease, Tenant, at its sole cost and expense, shall promptly remove
any violation and shall promptly comply with all requirements of all
Authorities, foreseen or unforeseen, ordinary as well as extraordinary, which
may be applicable to the Leased Premises, or any part thereof, or to the use or
manner of use of the Leased Premises, or any part thereof (collectively, the
"Requirements"); except that Landlord shall be responsible for such removal and
compliance to the extent the same are attributable to original construction
defects in workmanship or materials in Landlord's Work, relate to or require
work constituting structural maintenance or alterations for which Landlord is
responsible hereunder, or result from the acts or omissions of Landlord, its
agents or employees or from Landlord's failure to perform any of its other
obligations under this Lease.

                           (c) Utility Services. Landlord shall complete lines,
facilities and services for Utilities (as defined in subparagraph 21(a), above)
(including, without limitation, storm sewer), to the extent provided in the
Final Plans and Specifications. Landlord shall also grant such easements and
licenses on the Leased Premises as Tenant may reasonably request in order to
provide additional Utilities to the Leased Premises, which easements and
licenses shall be subject to Landlord's prior written approval, which approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Tenant shall bear all costs of
drafting, preparing and recording the necessary easement instruments (excluding
Landlord's costs of review). Landlord shall have no responsibility for the
interruption or failure to provide Utilities to the Leased Premises, but
Landlord shall reasonably cooperate with Tenant in the event that

                                       22
<PAGE>   38
Tenant requests Landlord's assistance in obtaining the resumption of Utilities
following an interruption in service.

                  29.      Assignment and Subletting.

                           (a)      Assignment.

                                    (i) Except as provided in Paragraph 29(c),
Tenant shall not assign or transfer this Lease, or any interest in this Lease
without, in each case, first obtaining the prior consent of the Landlord, which
consent may be granted or withheld in Landlord's sole and absolute discretion.

                                    (ii) If Tenant attempts to make any
assignment without the requisite consent of the Landlord (to the extent required
under paragraph (a)(i) above), such assignment shall be void and such occurrence
shall be deemed an Event of Default. Notwithstanding any assignment, Tenant
shall remain primarily liable for the full performance of the terms,
conditions and obligations under this Lease.

                           (b)      Subletting.

                                    (i) Tenant shall have the right to sublet
all or any portion or portions of the Leased Premises without Landlord's consent
subject to the following provisions. Tenant shall give Landlord notice of any
subletting in accordance with the following: (A) not less than thirty (30) days
prior written notice of any subletting of the entirety or substantially all of
the Premises and (B) notice of any other subleases from time to time upon
request from Landlord. Notice to Landlord under (A) and (B) shall include the
name of the subtenant, the uses to be permitted under the sublease (which uses
must be permitted under the terms of Paragraph 17), and the terms of the
sublease; in addition, notice under (A) above shall include information on the
financial capabilities of the subtenant.

                                    (ii) If Tenant breaches its obligation to
deliver notice of a subletting in accordance with Paragraph (b)(i) above, there
shall be deemed an Event of Default if Tenant thereafter fails to cure such
breach by delivery of the required notice within five (5) days of receipt of
notice from Landlord. Any consent by Landlord to any assignment of this Lease
or the occurrence of any sublease of the Leased Premises without the required
notice, if any, shall not constitute a waiver by the Landlord of the provisions
of this Paragraph as to subsequent transactions of the same or similar nature.
Notwithstanding any sublease authorized under the provisions of this Paragraph
29(b), Tenant shall remain primarily liable for the full performance of the
terms, conditions and obligations under this Lease.

                           (c) Permitted Assignment/Subletting. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained hereinabove, Tenant shall have the right,
without obtaining Landlord's prior written consent, to assign or sublease all or
any portion or portions of the Leased Premises to the following parties on the
following conditions:

                                       23

<PAGE>   39
                           1. Advanta Corp., a Delaware corporation ("Advanta
         Corp."), Advanta Mortgage Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation
         ("Advanta Holding"), or subsidiary or affiliate of Tenant, Advanta
         Corp. or Advanta Holding, provided Tenant, Advanta Corp. or Advanta
         Holding owns a controlling interest in such affiliate or subsidiary;

                           2. Any corporation into which Tenant may be merged or
         consolidated or which purchases all or substantially all of the assets
         or stock of Tenant;

         and provided that:


                           (A) Any such assignee or any subtenant of all or of
         substantially all of the Leased Premises shall assume and be bound by
         all obligations of Tenant for payment of all amounts of rental and
         other sums and the performance of all covenants required by Tenant
         pursuant to this Agreement; and

                           (B) Any such subtenant and/or assignee intends, and
         is required by the terms of such assignment or sublease, to operate the
         Leased Premises in accordance with the usage restrictions of this
         Lease.

Tenant shall give Landlord notice of any assignment or subletting under this
Paragraph 29(c) in accordance with the following: (i) Tenant shall give Landlord
not less than thirty (30) days prior written notice of any subletting of the
entirety or substantially all of the Premises or any assignment of this Lease,
and (ii) from time to time upon request from Landlord Tenant shall notify
Landlord with respect to all other subleases. Notice to Landlord under (i) and
(ii) shall include the name of the assignee/subtenant, the uses to be permitted
under the sublease (which uses must be permitted under the terms of Paragraph
17), copies of the documents evidencing such transaction, and such evidence as
Landlord may reasonably require to establish that such transaction falls within
the terms and provisions of this Paragraph 29(c); in addition, notice under (i)
above shall include information on the financial capabilities of the assignee/
subtenant. If Tenant breaches its obligation to deliver notice of a subletting
or assignment in accordance with (i) or (ii) above, there shall be deemed an
Event of Default if Tenant fails to cure such breach by delivery of the required
notice within five (5) days after notice from Landlord. In all events, Tenant
shall remain primarily liable for the full performance of the terms, conditions
and obligations under this Lease notwithstanding any subletting or assignment
permitted under this Paragraph 29(c).

         30. Holdover. If Tenant continues to occupy the Leased Premises after
the last day of any Renewal Period or after the last day of the Initial Term if
this Lease is not extended, and Landlord elects to accept rent thereafter, a
tenancy from month to month, terminable by either party on not less than one (1)
month's notice, shall be created, which shall be upon the same terms and
conditions, including rent (except that the Minimum Rent shall be an amount
equal to 150% of the monthly payment of Minimum Rent applicable immediately
prior to such holdover period), as those herein specified, except only as to the
term of this Lease.


                                       24
<PAGE>   40
         31. Indemnification of Landlord and Tenant.

                  (a) Tenant's Indemnification of Landlord. Tenant covenants and
agrees that it will protect, defend, save and keep Landlord harmless and
indemnified against and from any and all claims of third parties (including
Tenant's agents and employees but excluding agents and employees of Landlord)
with respect to personal injuries, penalties or damages or charges, including
reasonable attorneys' fees: (i) imposed for any violations by Tenant of any
Requirements applicable to the Leased Premises for which Tenant is responsible
under the terms of this Lease, (ii) arising out of or from any accident or other
occurrence on the Leased Premises following the Rent Commencement Date causing
injury to Tenant, Tenant's property or any other person or property whomsoever
or whatsoever, (iii) arising out of any failure of Tenant in any respect to
comply with and perform Tenant's covenants and obligations under this Lease,
(iv) arising out of any work or thing done in or on the Leased Premises by
Tenant, its agents, employees and contractors, or (v) arising out of any work or
thing done in or on the Leased Premises following the Rent Commencement Date,
except that Tenant will not protect, defend, save and keep Landlord harmless and
indemnified against and from any of the above claims of third parties caused by
the negligence of Landlord or its agents, contractors, or employees.

                  (b) Landlord's Indemnification of Tenant. Landlord covenants
and agrees that, from and after the commencement of the Initial Term until the
date on which Substantial Completion occurs, Landlord will protect, defend, save
and keep Tenant harmless and indemnified against and from any and all claims of
third parties (excluding agents and employees of Tenant) with respect to
personal injuries, penalties or damages or charges, including reasonable
attorneys' fees: (i) imposed for any violations of any Requirements applicable
to the Leased Premises for which Landlord is responsible under the terms of this
Lease, (ii) arising out of or from any accident or other occurrence on or about
the Leased Premises, causing injury to any person, caused by the negligence of
Landlord or its agents, or employees, or (iii) arising out of any work or thing
done in, on or about the Leased Premises or any part thereof by Landlord, its
agents, employees and contractors; except that Landlord will not protect,
defend, save and keep Tenant harmless and indemnified against and from any of
the above claims of third parties caused by the negligence of Tenant or its
agents, contractors, licensees, invitees, or employees.


         32. Liability Insurance.

                  (a) Tenant to Maintain Liability Insurance.

                           (i) Tenant, at all times from and after the date on
which Tenant commences Tenant's Work, at its sole cost and expense, shall
maintain commercial general public liability insurance ("Tenant's Liability
Insurance") written on an occurrence form with coverage at least as broad as ISO
CGL form CG 00 01 covering any and all claims for injuries or death to persons
or property arising in or upon the Leased Premises with combined single limit of
One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and Two Million
($2,000,000.00) annual aggregate per location for bodily injury, property
damage, personal injury and advertising injury, with Five Million Dollars excess
coverage. Such maximum's shall be subject to increase from time to time upon
request of Landlord based on

                                       25
<PAGE>   41
changed economic conditions and the amount of coverage maintained by owners of
similar buildings in San Diego County, California. Certified copies of policies
or certificates, in a form approved by Landlord evidencing Tenant's Liability
Insurance together with evidence of payment therefor, shall be deposited with
Landlord not less than three (3) business days prior to the date of the
commencement of Tenant's Work. Upon Landlord's substantial completion of
Landlord's Work, Tenant's Liability Insurance shall be deemed primary.

                           (ii) The policy for Tenant's Liability Insurance
shall contain the following provisions:

                                    (A) Tenant's obligations pursuant to
subparagraph 31(a), above are insured as a contractual obligation; and

                                    (B) A sixty-day notice of cancellation of
insurance to Landlord and Landlord's Mortgagee.

                                    (C) Landlord and Landlord's Mortgagee shall
be named as additional insureds on Tenant's Liability Insurance contract with
respect to occurrences in, on or around the Leased Premises.

                                    (D) Coverage for premises and operations,
products and completed operations on an "if any" basis, independent contractors
and blanket contractual liability for all written and oral contracts.

                           (iii) Tenant, if it so elects, may carry Tenant's
Liability Insurance under a primary public liability insurance policy or under a
combination public liability and umbrella liability insurance policy.

                           (iv) In addition to the above, Tenant shall provide
and keep in force with respect to any of its employees performing work on the
Leased Premises, worker's compensation insurance coverage as may be required by
the statutes of the State of California, or any applicable federal or municipal
laws or regulations in effect at any time during the Term and employers'
liability coverage, and Tenant shall not permit any contractor or any
subcontractor to perform any work or services on the Leased Premises without
furnishing evidence that adequate worker's compensation insurance coverage is in
force and effect as required by California law.

                           (v) Tenant's contractors completing Tenant's Work or
any Alterations, and all subcontractors shall maintain commercial general
liability insurance and worker's compensation insurance as provided above,
naming Tenant, Landlord and Landlord's Mortgagee as additional insureds.

                  (b) Landlord to Maintain Liability Insurance.

                           (i) Landlord, at all times during the Initial Term
and any Renewal Periods, at its sole cost and expense, shall maintain commercial
general public liability insurance ("Landlord's Liability Insurance") written on
an occurrence form with coverage at




                                       26
<PAGE>   42
least as broad as ISO CGL form CG 00 01 covering any and all claims for injuries
or death to persons or property arising in or upon the Leased Premises with
combined single limit of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and
Two Million ($2,000,000.00) annual aggregate per location for bodily injury,
property damage, personal injury and advertising injury, with Five Million
Dollars excess coverage. Certificates of insurance evidencing Landlord's
Liability Insurance, and including the provisions set forth below, together with
evidence of payment therefor, shall be deposited with Tenant prior to the
commencement of the Initial Term of this Lease.

                           (ii) The policy for Landlord's Liability Insurance
shall contain the following provisions:

                                    (A) Landlord's obligations pursuant to
subparagraphs 31(b) and (c), above are insured as a contractual obligation; and

                                    (B) A sixty-day notice of cancellation of
insurance to Tenant.


                           (iii) Landlord, if it so elects, may carry Landlord's
Liability Insurance under a primary public liability insurance policy or under a
combination public liability and umbrella liability insurance policy.

         33. Fire and All Risk Insurance.

                  (a) Landlord to Maintain Builders Risk Insurance. Landlord, at
all times until Substantial Completion of Landlord's Work, at its sole cost and
expense, shall maintain Completed Value Form "All Physical Loss" Builder's Risk
Coverage on Landlord's Work ("Landlord's Fire Insurance") in a nonreporting
form, including an Occupancy endorsement, against loss by fire, lightning, flood
and earthquake, and the perils of the all risk endorsement covering the Leased
Premises, with business income coverage equal to not less than one year's
Minimum Rent hereunder and with coinsurance waived. The policies effecting
Landlord's Fire Insurance shall contain the following endorsements:

                           (i) An endorsement providing for sixty (60) thirty
notice of cancellation of insurance or of decrease in insurance coverage to
Tenant;

                           (ii) An endorsement whereby the insurer acknowledges
that Landlord has waived any and all rights of recovery against Tenant and any
other occupant(s) of the Leased Premises and their agents and employees for
damage or destruction to any or all of the buildings and improvements,
including, without limitation, the Building, on and in the Leased Premises,
whether or not caused by acts or negligence of Tenant or said occupant(s) or any
of their agents or employees; and

                           (iii) An endorsement whereby the insurer waives all
rights of subrogation against Tenant and any other occupant(s) of the Leased
Premises and any of their agents or employees.




                                       27
<PAGE>   43
                  (b) Tenant to Maintain Property Insurance.


                           (i) Tenant, at all times from and after the date on
which Tenant commences Tenant's Work (but not later than Landlord's Substantial
Completion of Landlord's Work) until such time as Tenant's Work is substantially
completed and Tenant has taken occupancy of the Leased Premises, at its sole
cost and expense, shall maintain Completed Value Form "All Physical Loss"
Builder's Risk Coverage on Tenant's Work ("Tenant's Builder's Risk Insurance")
flood and earthquake, and the perils of the all risk endorsement covering the
Leased Premises, with business income coverage equal to not less than one year's
Minimum Rent hereunder and with coinsurance waived. Alternatively, subject to
Landlord's approval, Landlord and Tenant shall jointly require the contractor
completing Landlord's Work and Tenant's Work (the "Contractor") to maintain
Completed Value Form "All Physical Loss" Builder's Risk Coverage on both
Landlord's Work and Tenant's Work, which coverage shall be maintained until
Tenant's Work is substantially completed and Tenant's Property Insurance
coverage commences; in that event, the cost of such insurance shall be prorated
between the parties based on the proportionate value of Landlord's Work and
Tenant's Work.

                           (ii) In addition, Tenant, at all times from and after
the date on which Substantial Completion of Landlord's Work occurs shall provide
property insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO Special Form Coverage
against risks of direct physical loss or damage (commonly known as "all risk"),
insuring the Building and the Improvements for the Full Replacement Cost
thereof, and including business income insurance, including insuring Landlord's
loss of rents (including all Minimum Rent, Real Estate Taxes, operating expenses
and other charges required to be paid by Tenant for not less than a 12-month
period) ("Tenant's Property Insurance"). If the Contractor maintains builders
risk insurance jointly for Landlord's Work and Tenant's Work (as referred to in
Paragraph 33(b)(i) above), then Tenant shall have the right to delay coverage
under Tenant's Property Insurance until Tenant's Work is substantially
completed, i.e., during the period that such joint builder's risk insurance
covers the Leased Premises.


                  (c) Provisions of Policies.

                           (i) The amount of Tenant's Property Insurance shall
be not less than the greater of

                                    (A) one hundred percent (100%) of the Full
Replacement Cost (as defined in this subparagraph (b)) of the Building,
including all Alterations thereof, and all other buildings and improvements on
and in the Leased Premises required to be insured hereunder, providing for an
Agreed Amount endorsement and no deductible in excess of $10,000.00 (except a
customary deductible for earthquake not to exceed that permitted by Landlord's
Mortgagee), and

                                    (B) an amount sufficient to prevent Tenant
from becoming a co-insurer within the terms of the applicable policies of
Landlord's Fire Insurance.




                                       28
<PAGE>   44
                           The term "Full Replacement Cost" means the cost of
replacing the Building, including all Alterations thereof, and all other
buildings and improvements on and in the Leased Premises required to be insured
hereunder. Such Full Replacement Cost shall be determined from time to time (but
not more frequently than once in any twelve (12) calendar months) at the request
of either party by an insurer or by an appraiser, engineer, architect or
contractor designated by Landlord and approved in writing by Tenant and paid by
Tenant. No omission on the part of a party to request any such determination
shall relieve Tenant of any of its obligations under this Paragraph 33. Each
policy of Tenant's Property Insurance shall contain a "Replacement Cost
Endorsement".

                           (ii) Tenant's Property Insurance shall include:
"Ordinance or Law Coverage" or "Enforcement" endorsement if any of the
improvements or the use of the Leased Premises shall constitute non-conforming
structures or uses; boiler and machinery if reasonably required by Landlord;
earthquake and flood coverage; deletion of the exclusion for foundations and
other underground property and such other or additional coverages as may be
reasonably required by Landlord's Mortgagee.

                           (iii) All policies of Tenant's Property Insurance and
Tenant's Builder's Risk Insurance shall provide that Tenant and Landlord are
named as insureds, as their interests may appear, and the proceeds of any loss
shall be payable to Landlord and Tenant and to Landlord's Mortgagee so long as
such Mortgagee is obligated to apply proceeds of insurance to rebuild in the
manner provided for in this Lease. Tenant's Builder's Risk Insurance and
Tenant's Property Insurance shall identify Landlord's Mortgagee under a
mortgagee (non-contributory) endorsement reasonably satisfactory to Landlord's
Mortgagee.

                  (d) Waiver of Liability. Each party, on behalf of itself and
anyone claiming through or under it by way of subrogation or otherwise, hereby
waives all rights to recovery against the other and against any other
occupant(s) of the Leased Premises and any of their agents and employees and
Landlord's Mortgagee for damage or destruction to any property of such party,
including, without limitation, the Building, on and in the Leased Premises
arising out of fire or other casualty whether or not caused by acts or
negligence of the aforementioned persons, or anyone for whom said persons may be
responsible.

                  (e) Evidence of Coverage. Not later than thirty (30) days
prior to the date that Tenant's Builder's Risk Insurance and Tenant's Property
Insurance is required to be effective under this Paragraph, Tenant shall provide
Landlord and Landlord's Mortgagee with Certified copies of policies or
certificates, in a form approved by Landlord evidencing Tenant's Builder's Risk
Insurance and Tenant's Property Insurance together with evidence of payment
therefor, shall be deposited with Landlord and Landlord's Mortgagee. In
addition, Landlord shall deliver to Tenant renewal policies or certificates
thereof not later than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of any policies
which Landlord is required to, or elects to, carry hereunder. Notwithstanding
anything in Paragraph 43 to the contrary, Landlord shall have the following
remedies in the event Tenant fails to maintain the insurance required under this
Paragraph 33: (i) Tenant's failure shall be deemed an Event of Default under
this Lease if, within five (5) days after written notice from Landlord, Tenant
fails to provide Landlord with reasonable evidence that Tenant has obtained the
requisite insurance policies;



                                       29
<PAGE>   45
or (ii) Landlord may immediately purchase the required insurance policies on
Tenant's behalf and charge Tenant the premium together with a ten percent (10%)
handling charge payable within ten (10) days after invoice.

         34. Intentionally Omitted.

         35. General Insurance Requirements. All insurance provided for in this
Lease shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies issued by insurers
of recognized responsibility which are licensed to do business in the State of
California and approved by Landlord in the good faith exercise of its
discretion. The insurance companies must have a general policy rating of A or
better and a financial class of VIII or better by A.M. Best Company, Inc. and a
claims paying ability of BBB or better according to Standard & Poors. To the
extent that the types of insurance coverages described in Paragraphs 32 or 33
are no longer available, there shall be substituted, at the request of Landlord
or Tenant, such equivalent coverage as may then be available consistent with
coverages maintained by owners of similar buildings in San Diego County,
California and consistent with the reasonable requirements of Landlord's
Mortgagee. Any dispute with regard to such coverages shall be subject to
arbitration.

         36. Damage or Destruction.

                  (a) Destruction. If the Leased Premises and the Building and
improvements thereon, or any part thereof, are damaged or destroyed by fire, the
elements or other casualty (any such damage or destruction being herein called
"Casualty Damage"), Tenant shall diligently proceed to restore the property,
including the Building and all Alterations thereto, subject to the Casualty
Damage at Tenant's cost to a condition as near as possible to that in which such
property was immediately prior to the Casualty Damage. If Tenant for any reason
whatsoever fails to commence (or cause the commencement of) such restoration
work within nine (9) months from the date when the Casualty Damage occurred or
fails thereafter to complete such work (or cause the same to be so completed)
within the time periods set forth below, Landlord, in addition to such other
rights and remedies as may be accorded Landlord by law, shall have the right and
option to terminate this Lease by giving Tenant written notice of Landlord's
election to do so any time prior to the completion of such work, provided Tenant
shall not then be actively undertaking such restoration work, and upon such
notice being given, the Term of this Lease shall automatically terminate and end
pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph 45(b), below. If the Casualty Damage
is partial, Tenant shall complete such restoration work within eighteen (18)
months after the Casualty Damage. If the Casualty Damage is total, Tenant shall
complete such restoration work within twenty-four (24) months after the Casualty
Damage. If Tenant fails to do so, Landlord shall have the right and option to
terminate this Lease by written notice to Tenant, upon said deadline dates for
completion of restoration and upon said notice being given, the Term of this
Lease shall automatically terminate and end pursuant to the provisions of
subparagraph 45(b), below. In addition to Landlord's rights and remedies set
forth above in this subparagraph (a), if Tenant fails to commence or complete
the restoration work to the Leased Premises within the time periods set forth
above in this subparagraph (a), Landlord shall have the right to perform said
restoration work to the Leased Premises and bill Tenant for the same.


                                       30
<PAGE>   46
                  (b) Changes in Leased Premises. If Tenant is required to
restore the Leased Premises in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, Tenant
shall have the right to make changes in the Leased Premises in the course of
such restoration, subject to the provisions of Paragraph 23. If the cost of
restoration of the Leased Premises is increased by any change or changes made by
Tenant, then Tenant shall pay the amount by which the cost of restoration
exceeded what the cost of restoration of the Leased Premises would have been,
had the Leased Premises been restored to substantially the same condition as
existed immediately preceding the Casualty Damage.

                  (c) Damage to Leased Premises; Abatement of Rent. If the
Casualty Damage renders the Leased Premises unfit for Tenant's normal business
purposes, and Tenant by reason thereof discontinues business on the Leased
Premises, the Minimum Rent and Additional Rent payable by Tenant hereunder,
shall be suspended for the period during which the same are not fit for such
business purposes to the extent, and only to the extent, of Landlord's recovery
under the rent loss coverage of the business income insurance maintained for
Landlord's benefit; and if the Casualty Damage renders only part of the Leased
Premises unfit for Tenant's normal business purposes, and Tenant elects to
operate its business upon the remaining part, then the Minimum Rent and
Additional Rent payable by Tenant hereunder shall be apportioned on a per square
foot basis and the proportion thereof applicable to each part of the Leased
Premises upon which Tenant discontinues its business operations shall be abated,
but only to the extent of Landlord's recovery under the rent loss coverage of
the business income insurance maintained for Landlord's benefit, for the period
during which such part is not fit for Tenant's normal business purposes or
during which Tenant discontinues business operations. If Tenant has paid Minimum
Rent or Additional Rent, in advance, Landlord shall immediately repay to Tenant
an amount equal to that portion of such payments which is abated and covered by
such loss of rents insurance.

                  (d) Arbitration. In the event that Landlord and Tenant are
unable to agree as to the extent of any abatement or as to any other issue under
this Paragraph 36, the matter shall be resolved by arbitration pursuant to the
provisions of Paragraph 59, below.

                  (e) Application of Insurance Proceeds. In the event that the
Leased Premises, or any part thereof, are required to be restored as provided in
this Paragraph 36, insurance proceeds from Tenant's Property Insurance
(maintained pursuant to Paragraph 33, above), shall be applied in full to such
restoration, exclusive of loss of rents coverage to be paid to Landlord and
other business income insurance payable to Tenant. Such insurance proceeds shall
be deposited in trust with a savings bank, bank or trust company acceptable to
Landlord and under control of Landlord and Tenant, as trustee, or, if Landlord's
Mortgagee which is the holder of the first mortgage, if any, on the Leased
Premises shall be a savings bank, bank, trust company or insurance company, such
proceeds shall be deposited in trust with such holder, as trustee, and shall be
held and disbursed for restoration as provided in this Lease. The trustee shall
disburse the insurance proceeds to Tenant upon certification by Tenant, together
with such other evidence as the trustee may reasonably require, that the amounts
requested either shall have been paid in connection with the restoration or
shall be due to contractors, subcontractors, materialmen, architects or other
persons who have rendered services or have furnished materials for restoration,
and upon completion of restoration, the remaining balance, if any, of such
proceeds shall be paid to Landlord upon


                                       31
<PAGE>   47
demand or retained by the first mortgagee. In the event that the insurance
proceeds are insufficient to pay the entire cost of restoration pursuant to this
Paragraph, Tenant shall pay the deficiency without delay.

                  (f) Damage During Last Year. In the event of any Substantial
Casualty Damage to the Leased Premises within the last year prior to the
expiration of the Initial Term or any Renewal Period, and upon the failure of
Tenant to exercise a Renewal Option for a subsequent Renewal Period, Landlord
shall have the right to elect not to restore such Casualty Damage, in which
event, Landlord shall raze the damaged portion and put the same in good order by
paving or landscaping. The term "Substantial Casualty Damage" means any Casualty
Damage which reasonably shall cost more than Five Hundred Thousand Dollars
($500,000.00) to repair or restore. In the event Landlord elects not to restore
such Substantial Casualty Damage, Tenant shall have the right to terminate this
Lease (by delivering written notice of termination to Landlord within thirty
(30) days after the casualty) and with Minimum Rent and Additional Rent,
prorated to the date of the Casualty Damage and with the date of termination
being no later than thirty (30) days after such notice is given. Upon said
termination, Landlord and Tenant shall be released from all further obligations
thereafter accruing; but such termination shall, in no event, release either
party from any liability to the other which has accrued prior to such
termination. Alternatively, in the event Landlord elects not to restore such
Substantial Casualty Damage and Tenant elects not to terminate this Lease,
Minimum Rent and Additional Rent shall be suspended for the period during which
the Leased Premises are not fit for business purposes, but only to the extent of
Landlord's recovery under the rent loss coverage of the business income
insurance maintained for Landlord's benefit; and if the Casualty Damage renders
only part of the Leased Premises unfit for Tenant's normal business purposes and
Tenant elects to operate its business in the remaining part, then the Minimum
Rent and Additional Rent shall be apportioned on a per square foot basis and the
proportion thereof applicable to each part of the Leased Premises upon which
Tenant discontinues its business operations shall be abated, but only to the
extent of Landlord's recovery under the rent loss coverage of the business
income insurance maintained for Landlord's benefit, for the period during which
such part is not fit for Tenant's normal business purposes or during which
Tenant discontinues business operations. If Tenant has paid Minimum Rent or
Additional Rent in advance, Landlord shall immediately repay to Tenant an amount
equal to that portion of such payments which is abated and covered by such loss
of rents insurance.

         37. Eminent Domain.

                  (a) Complete Taking.  If the whole of the Leased Premises
shall be taken under the power of eminent domain by any public, quasi-public or
private authority (the "Taking"), then this Lease shall terminate or expire as
of the date of such Taking, and any Minimum Rent and Additional Rent due
hereunder, if any, paid in advance, for a period after such date of termination
shall be refunded immediately by Landlord to Tenant. Upon said termination,
Landlord and Tenant shall be relieved of and released from all further
obligations thereafter to accrue hereunder; but such termination shall, in no
event, relieve or release either party from any liability to the other which has
accrued prior to the termination of this Lease, including, but not limited to,
Landlord's obligation to pay to Tenant all or any portion of Landlord's
Contribution (as defined in Paragraph 13, above) for costs and




                                       32
<PAGE>   48
expenses incurred by Tenant prior to termination to which Tenant may be entitled
in accordance with that Paragraph.

                  (b) Partial Taking. In the event of a permanent Taking of ten
percent (10%) of the usable area of the Building, or in the event of a Taking
resulting in a reduction of twenty percent (20%) or more of the automobile
parking spaces (unless Landlord provides within ninety (90) days after the
Taking adequate and sufficient additional contiguous parking areas in
substitution therefor), Tenant may elect to terminate this Lease by giving
notice of termination to Landlord on or before the date which is ninety (90)
days after receipt by Tenant of notice that the Taking or denial or diminishing
of access shall have occurred. Any notice of termination shall state the date of
termination, which date of termination shall be not more than thirty (30) days
after the date on which such notice of termination is given to Landlord, and

                           (i) upon the date specified in such notice of
termination this Lease and the term hereof shall cease and expire, and

                           (ii) any Minimum Rent or Additional Rent due
hereunder, paid in advance, for a period after such date of termination shall be
refunded by Landlord to Tenant.

                           Upon said termination, Landlord and Tenant shall be
relieved of and released from all further obligations thereafter to accrue
hereunder; but such termination shall, in no event, relieve or release either
party from any liability to the other which has accrued prior to the termination
of this Lease, including, but not limited to, Landlord's obligation to pay to
Tenant all or any portion of Landlord's Contribution (as defined in Paragraph
13, above) for costs and expenses incurred by Tenant prior to termination to
which Tenant may be entitled in accordance with that Paragraph.

                  (c) Abatement of Rent. In the event that any part of the
Leased Premises, shall be so Taken or diminished and Tenant elects not to
terminate this Lease, then commencing upon the date of vesting of title or of
the event of said Taking, whichever occurs earlier, the Minimum Rent and
Additional Rent payable by Tenant hereunder shall abate so that such Rent
payable immediately after the Taking shall bear the same ratio to the Rent
payable immediately before the Taking as the value of the Leased Premises
remaining after the Taking bears to the value of the Leased Premises immediately
before the Taking; provided, however, there shall be no abatement of rent unless
usable square footage of the Building is Taken or parking spaces are Taken for
which adequate and sufficient substitute parking spaces are not provided. If
Landlord shall be obligated to perform restoration work under the provisions of
this Paragraph 37, and if Tenant is deprived of the use of the Leased Premises
during the performance by Landlord of the restoration work the Minimum Rent and
Additional Rent payable by Tenant hereunder shall be suspended until such
restoration work on the Leased Premises and access thereto shall have been
completed, apportioned on a per square foot basis and the proportion thereof
applicable to each part of the Leased Premises upon which Tenant discontinues
its business operations shall be abated for the period during which such part is
not fit for Tenant's normal business purposes. If the parties cannot agree upon
the amount by which such Rent is to be abated, the same shall be submitted to
and




                                       33
<PAGE>   49
determined on the basis above provided by arbitration pursuant to the provisions
of Paragraph 59, below.

                  (d) Restoration. In the event that any part of the Leased
Premises shall be so taken and Tenant elects not to terminate this Lease, then
Landlord shall restore the Building, including Tenant's Alterations and Tenant
Fixtures, to a complete unit as similar as is reasonably possible in design,
character and quality to the building which existed before such Taking. In the
event that any part of the parking area or access thereto, shall be so taken or
diminished and Tenant elects not to terminate this Lease, then Landlord shall
restore the parking areas and the access thereto, as nearly as reasonably
possible, to the condition they were in prior to such Taking. The award or
payment for the Taking paid to Landlord shall be used by Landlord for said
restoration and Landlord shall promptly commence and with due diligence continue
to restore the Leased Premises after the Taking; Landlord shall not be obligated
to expend any sums in excess of such award or payment for the purpose of said
restoration. In the event that Landlord fails to commence said restoration
within two (2) months after the Taking or in the event Landlord fails to
complete said restoration within six (6) months after the Taking and is not
actively and diligently proceeding with the restoration work, subject to
Unavoidable Delays, Tenant shall have the option of terminating this Lease by
notifying Landlord of its election to do so after the expiration of said two (2)
month or six (6) month period, as the case may be (as such deadlines may be
extended by Unavoidable Delay), and upon such notice being given the term of
this Lease shall automatically terminate and end pursuant to the provisions of
subparagraph 45(c), below.

                  (e) Claims for Awards. In the event of a Taking resulting in
the termination of this Lease, the parties hereto agree to cooperate in applying
for and in prosecuting any claim for compensation for such Taking and further
agree, that the aggregate net award, after deducting all expenses and costs,
including attorneys' fees, incurred in connection therewith, shall be paid in
the following order:

                           (i) First, Landlord shall receive the entirety of the
award for the Leased Premises, including the Building, and the Building Fixtures
and Equipment but exclusive of Tenant Fixtures Taken and exclusive of
Alterations (other than Alterations or replacements or substitutions for items
of Landlord's Improvements).

                           (ii) Second, Tenant shall have the fight to receive
any relocation damages separately afforded tenants under California laws as well
as the right to receive compensation or damages for Tenant Fixtures and
Alterations (in accordance with subparagraph (f) below). Provided, however, that
Tenant shall waive all damages which shall diminish Landlord's right to recover
for its interests as provided in subparagraph (i) above. If the condemning
authority shall refuse to permit separate claims to be made, then and in that
event Landlord shall prosecute, with counsel satisfactory to Tenant and
Landlord, the claims of both Landlord and Tenant, and the proceeds of the award
shall be divided between Landlord and Tenant in accordance with the foregoing
provisions.


                  (f) Claims for Costs of Alterations. Tenant may make a claim
in the condemnation proceedings on account of a Taking for the value of any
Tenant's Improvements and Alterations made to or erected on the Leased Premises
by Tenant or of



                                       34
<PAGE>   50
any Tenant Fixtures Taken placed upon or installed in the Leased Premises by
Tenant (other than Alterations that are replacements or substitutions for items
of Landlord's Improvements). The value of such Tenant's Improvements,
Alterations and Tenant Fixtures shall be the unamortized value based on the
total amount of Tenant's expenditures for such items multiplied by a fraction,
the numerator of which shall be the lesser of (x) the number of years between
the date of the Taking and the last day of the Term of this Lease, including all
Renewal Periods, regardless of whether Tenant shall have exercised Renewal
Options therefor, and the denominator of which shall be the number of years
between the date(s) of Tenant's Expenditures and the last day of the term of
this Lease, including all Renewal Periods, regardless of whether Tenant shall
have executed Renewal Options therefor; in no event, however, shall the value of
such Tenant's Improvements, Alterations and Tenant Fixtures for which Tenant may
be entitled hereunder exceed the positive difference, if any between (i) the
total award on account of such Taking and (ii) the then-current actual value of
Landlord's Improvements determined based on then-current standard appraisal
methods. In the event Landlord's award does not specify the amount attributable
separately to the value of Landlord's Improvements and such Tenant's
Improvements, Alterations and Tenant Fixtures, and Landlord and Tenant cannot
agree on the amount of such values, such amounts shall be determined by
arbitration pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 59, below. Any claims by
Tenant for the value of the Tenant's Improvements, Alterations and Tenant
Fixtures shall nevertheless be subject and subordinate to the rights of the
holder of any first mortgage on the Leased Premises to which this Lease is
subject and subordinate and who has entered into the agreement described in
subparagraph 38(a), below.

                  (g) Date of Taking. A Taking shall be deemed to have occurred
on the date possession is required by the condemning authority.

                  (h) Application of Proceeds of Award. The proceeds of any
award or payment belonging to Landlord shall be paid and disbursed in the same
manner that the proceeds of property insurance are required to be paid and
disbursed pursuant to subparagraph 36(f) above.

         38. Subordination, Recognition, Non-Disturbance and Attornment.

                  (a) Tenant to Subordinate. Tenant agrees, at the request of
Landlord, to execute an agreement whereby Tenant will subordinate this Lease to
the lien of any first mortgage of the entire fee interest in the Leased Premises
now or hereafter made to a bank, trust company, savings and loan association,
insurance company, or other similar institutional type lender, and any renewals,
modifications or extensions thereof, provided that such subordination shall be
effective only upon the execution by the holder of such mortgage of an
agreement, for the benefit of Tenant, in recordable form, executed, acknowledged
and delivered by such mortgagee to Tenant (with the joinder of Landlord), which
shall be on the lender's standard form subordination and non-disturbance
agreement and contain in substance the following provisions and such other
provisions as such holder may reasonably require:

                           (i) So long as Tenant continues to pay the Rent as
provided in this Lease and otherwise complies with the terms and provisions
hereof, the right of possession

                                       35
<PAGE>   51
of Tenant to the Leased Premises, and all of the other rights of Tenant under
the terms and provisions of this Lease shall otherwise not be affected, impaired
or disturbed, nor shall this Lease or the term hereof be terminated, by the
mortgagee in the exercise of any of its rights under the mortgage or the bond or
debts secured thereby, or otherwise by law provided.

                           (ii) In the event that the mortgagee comes into
possession of or ownership of the title of the Lease Premises by foreclosure of
the mortgage, or by proceedings on the bond or otherwise, this Lease and all
rights of Tenant hereunder shall continue in effect and shall not be terminated
by any of said proceedings.

                           (iii) If the mortgagee shall become the owner of the
Leased Premises by reason of foreclosure of the mortgage or otherwise, or if the
Leased Premises shall be sold as a result of any action or proceeding to
foreclose the mortgage or by a deed given in lieu of foreclosure, the Lease
shall continue in full force and effect, without necessity for executing any new
lease, as a direct lease between Tenant, as tenant thereunder, and the then
owner of the Leased Premises as landlord thereunder, upon all of the same terms,
covenants and provisions contained in the Lease, and in such event, Tenant shall
be bound to such new owner under all of the terms, covenants and provisions of
the Lease and Tenant hereby agrees to attorn to such new owner and to recognize
such new owner as Landlord under this Lease, and such new owner shall be bound
to Tenant under all of the terms, covenants and provisions of this Lease,
including any amendments of the Lease whether made before or after the date of
the mortgage, which terms, covenants and provisions such new owner hereby agrees
to assume and perform; provided that such attornment shall not relieve Landlord
of any and all of its liabilities to Tenant arising under this Lease prior to
such attornment and further provided, however, such party shall not be (i)
liable for any act or omission of any prior landlord or (ii) subject to any
offsets or defenses which Tenant might have against any prior landlord
(including Landlord); or (iii) bound by any rental which Tenant might have paid
for more than one (1) month in advance to any prior landlord; or (iv) bound by
any amendment or modification of the Lease made without its consent.

                           (iv) Tenant shall not be named or joined as a party
defendant or otherwise in any suit, action or proceeding for the foreclosure of
the mortgage or to enforce any rights under the mortgage or the bond or other
obligation secured thereby, unless required by applicable law.

                           (v) Mortgagee acknowledges and agrees that all Tenant
Fixtures shall be and remain the property of Tenant, or any subtenant, assignee,
licensee or concessionaire of Tenant, or any Equipment Lessor or may be removed
by Tenant, or any subtenant, assignee, licensee or concessionaire of Tenant, or
any Equipment Lessor at any time, in accordance with Paragraph 24.

                           (vi) If the Leased Premises, or any part thereof, is
damaged by fire or other casualty or taken by condemnation, the mortgagee agrees
that insurance proceeds and/or condemnation awards payable to it will be made
available for the purpose of repairing or rebuilding the Leased Premises, as
provided and subject to the provisions in this Lease.




                                       36
<PAGE>   52
                           (vii) The agreement shall be binding upon and inure
to the benefit of mortgagee, owner and Tenant, and their respective heirs,
executors, administrators, successors and assigns.

Tenant acknowledges that the form attached hereto as Exhibit "G" is approved for
the purposes of this Paragraph.

                  (b) Mortgagee May Require Lease to be Prior. If the holder of
any first mortgage of the entire fee interest of the Mortgaged Property, or any
part thereof, including without limitation the Leased Premises, requires that
this Lease have priority over such mortgage, Tenant shall, upon request of such
holder, execute, acknowledge and deliver to such holder an agreement
acknowledging such priority and containing the agreement of such mortgagee to
apply insurance proceeds and condemnation awards to restoration as herein
provided.

                  (c) Notice of Default to Mortgagee. If the holder of the first
mortgage covering the Leased Premises shall have given prior written notice to
Tenant that it is the holder of said first mortgage ("Mortgagee") and such
notice includes the address at which notices to such Mortgagee are to be sent,
then Tenant agrees to give to the Mortgagee notice simultaneously with any
notice given to Landlord to correct any default of Landlord as hereinabove
provided, and agrees that if Landlord fails to cure such default within the time
provided the Mortgagee shall have the right, within an additional 30 days
following a second notice from Tenant or, if such default cannot be cured within
that time, such additional time as may be necessary provided within such 30 days
Mortgagee commences and diligently pursues a cure (including commencement of
foreclosure proceedings if necessary to effect such cure) to correct or remedy
such default before Tenant may take any action under this Lease by reason of
such default, except for Tenant's rights under Paragraph 45(b)(i).

                  (d) Mortgagee's Requirements. Tenant will make such
modifications to this Lease as may hereafter be required to conform to any
reasonable and/or customary Mortgagee's requirements, so long as such
modifications do not increase Tenant's obligations or materially alter its
rights.

         39. Quiet Enjoyment. Landlord covenants and agrees that if Tenant shall
perform all the covenants and agreements herein stipulated to be performed on
Tenant's part, Tenant shall peaceably and quietly have, hold and enjoy the
Leased Premises and all rights, easements, appurtenances and privileges
belonging or in anywise appertaining thereto during the Initial Term and all
Renewal Periods, subject to the Permitted Exceptions, without hindrance or
interruption by any person or persons lawfully or equitably claiming by, through
or under Landlord. Landlord shall in no event be liable in damages or otherwise,
nor shall Tenant be released from any obligations hereunder (except as expressly
provided in Paragraph 33(d)), because of the interruption of any service, or a
termination, interruption or disturbance, attributable to strike, lockout,
breakdown, accident, war or other emergency, law, order, rule or regulation of
or by any governmental authority, failure of supply, inability to obtain
supplies, parts or employees, or any cause due to any act or neglect of Tenant
or its servants, agents, employees, licensees, business invitees, or any person
claiming by, through or under Tenant.


                                       37
<PAGE>   53
          40. Condition of Title. Tenant is entering into this Lease in reliance
on the a preliminary Title Report issued by First American Title Insurance
Company (the "Title Company") containing the commitment of the title insurance
company to issue to Tenant an ALTA or CLTA form leasehold owner's title
insurance policy upon the payment by Tenant of the standard premium as provided
therein, free and clear of all leases, tenancies, easements, agreements,
encumbrances, restrictions, liens, or any other defects in title other than
those listed on EXHIBIT "C" hereto (the "Permitted Exceptions"). Except for
Landlord's warranty of quiet enjoyment as to claims arising by, through or under
Landlord (as set forth in Paragraph 39), Landlord makes no warranty of title to
Tenant and Tenant shall rely solely upon the title insurance for protection as
to matters of title. Landlord and Tenant each represents, warrants and covenants
to the other that it has the right and lawful authority to enter into this Lease
for the Term hereof, including any Renewal Periods.

          41. Recording, Delivery of Title Report. Landlord and Tenant have
executed, simultaneously with the execution hereof, the document required by
statute for the validity and notice of this Lease (the "Memorandum"). Landlord
and Tenant shall deliver the Memorandum to the Title Company with instructions
to record and issue Tenant's Title insurance policy in accordance with Paragraph
40. Landlord agrees to pay all recording charges, transfer taxes and other taxes
imposed upon the entering into of this Lease and the recording of the
Memorandum, and any costs and expenses incurred in connection with Landlord's
obtaining the Title Report hereinabove described; Tenant agrees to pay for the
leasehold title insurance policy issued in accordance with the Title Report.

         42. Notices; Payment of Rent.

                  (a) Each notice, demand, request or other communication
required or permitted under the terms of this Lease shall be in writing and,
unless and until otherwise specified in a written notice by the party to receive
it, shall be sent to the parties at the following respective addresses:

                  if intended for Tenant prior to occupancy:

                             President
                             Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA
                             500 Office Center Drive
                             Fort Washington, PA 19034
                             FAX NO. (215) 283-4376

                  if intended for Tenant after occupancy:

                             President
                             Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA
                             10796 Rancho Bernardo Road
                             San Diego, CA 92127
                             FAX NO. (____)____________





                                       38

<PAGE>   54
                 with a copy to:

                          General Counsel
                          Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA
                          10796 Rancho Bernardo Road
                          San Diego, CA 92127
                          FAX NO. (   )

                 with a copy to:

                          Vice President, Advanta Corporate Services
                          200 Tournament Drive
                          Horsham, PA 19044
                          FAX NO. (215) 444-6126

                 if intended for Landlord:

                          San Diego Development #1, LLC
                          c/o Miller Global-Pauls
                          4600 South Ulster Street Parkway, Suite 940
                          Denver, CO 80237
                          FAX NO. (303) 689-2110

                 with a copy to:
                          Lawrence J. Donovan, Jr.
                          Isaacson Rosenbaum Woods & Levy, PC
                          633 Seventeenth Street, Suite 2200
                          Denver, CO 80202
                          FAX NO. (303) 292-3152

Notices may be given on behalf of any party by its legal counsel.

                 (b) Each such notice, demand, request or other communication
shall be deemed to have been properly given for all purposes if (i) hand
delivered or (ii) mailed by registered or certified mail of the United States
Postal Service, return receipt requested, postage prepaid or (iii) delivered by
a nationally recognized overnight courier service for next business day (or
sooner) delivery or (iv) delivered via telecopier or facsimile transmission to
the facsimile number listed in this Section, provided, however, that if such
communication is given via telecopier or facsimile transmission, an original
counterpart of such communication shall concurrently be sent in the manner
specified in either clause (iii) of this subparagraph (b) or be hand delivered
by the next business day.

                 (c) Each such notice, demand, request or other communication
shall be deemed to have been received by its addressee, and to have been
effectively given, upon the earliest of (i) actual delivery, (ii) refusal of
acceptance of delivery; provided that in the case of delivery by telecopier or
facsimile, "actual delivery" shall mean receipt of the telecopier or facsimile
transmission between the hours of 9:00 AM and 5:00 PM (at the local time of the

                                       39
<PAGE>   55
recipient of the notice) on a business day or if not received within such hours
on a business day, the next business day after receipt.

                 (d) All payments of rent and any other charges under this Lease
shall be paid to Landlord at the address of Landlord provided in this Paragraph
or at such other address as Landlord may specify in written notice given
pursuant hereto.

        43.      Tenant's Default.

                 (a) Event of Default Defined. The term "Event of Default" with
respect to Tenant shall mean the occurrence of any one or more of the following
events:

                           (i) if default shall be made in the due and punctual
payment of any Minimum Rent and Additional Rent payable under this Lease when
and as the same shall become due and payable that shall continue for a period of
five (5) business days after written notice thereof from Landlord to Tenant;

                           (ii) if Tenant shall make any assignment of
substantially all of its assets for the benefit of creditors or shall be
adjudged a bankrupt, or if a receiver is appointed for Tenant or its assets or
Tenant's interest under this Lease and the appointment of such receiver, if
involuntary, is not vacated within sixty (60) days, or if Tenant shall file or
have filed against it a petition under or pursuant to any of the provisions of
the U.S. Bankruptcy Act, the Federal Bankruptcy Code, or any other federal or
state law relating to insolvency, or any amendment thereof or substitute
thereof, and such petition, if involuntary, is not vacated within sixty (60)
days, or the adjudication that the Tenant is insolvent or bankrupt or the entry
of an order for relief under the Federal Bankruptcy Code with respect to Tenant;

                           (iii) there is an Event of Default as defined in
Paragraphs 29, 33 or 51; and

                           (iv) if default shall be made by Tenant in performing
any other of the terms, covenants or agreements contained in this Lease on
Tenant's part to be performed, and such default shall continue for a period of
thirty (30) days after written notice thereof from Landlord to Tenant or in the
case of such a default which cannot with due diligence and in good faith be
cured within thirty (30) days, the Tenant fails to commence within such
thirty-day period to cure the same and thereafter to prosecute the curing of
such default with due diligence and in good faith;

                   (b) Landlord's Remedies. If any one or more Event of Default
shall happen, then Landlord shall have the right at Landlord's election then or
at any time thereafter, but provided Landlord has not thereafter accepted
Tenant's cure, either:

                   (1) (i) Without demand or notice, to reenter and take
possession of the Leased Premises or any part thereof and repossess the same as
of Landlord's former estate and expel Tenant and those claiming through or under
Tenant and remove the effects of both or either, without being deemed guilty of
any manner of trespass and without prejudice to

                                       40
<PAGE>   56
any remedies for arrears of rent or preceding breach of covenants or conditions.
Should Landlord elect to reenter, as provided in this subparagraph (1), or
should Landlord take possession pursuant to legal proceedings or pursuant to any
notice provided for by law, Landlord may, from time to time, without terminating
this Lease, relet the Leased Premises or any part thereof, either alone or in
conjunction with other portions of the Building of which the Leased Premises are
a part, in Landlord's or Tenant's name but for the account of Tenant, for such
term or terms (which may be greater or less than the period which would
otherwise have constituted the balance of the term of this Lease) and on such
commercially reasonable conditions and upon such other terms (which may include
concessions of free rent and alteration and repair of the Leased Premises) as
Landlord, in its discretion, may determine and Landlord may collect and receive
the rents therefor. Landlord shall in no way be responsible or liable for any
failure to relet the Leased Premises, or any part thereof, or for any failure to
collect any rent due upon such reletting. No such reentry or taking possession
of the Leased Premises by Landlord shall be construed as an election on
Landlord's part to terminate this Lease unless a written notice of such
intention be given to Tenant. No notice from Landlord hereunder or under a
forcible entry and detainer statute or similar law shall constitute an election
by Landlord to terminate this Lease unless such notice specifically so states.
Landlord reserves the right following any such reentry and/or reletting to
exercise its right to terminate this Lease by giving Tenant such written notice,
in which event the Lease will terminate as specified in said notice.

                           (ii) If Landlord elects to take possession of the
Leased Premises as provided in this subparagraph (1) without terminating the
Lease, Tenant shall pay to Landlord (a) the rent and other sums as herein
provided, which would be payable hereunder if such repossession had not
occurred, less (b) the net proceeds, if any, of any reletting of the Leased
Premises after deducting all of Landlord's commercially reasonable expenses
incurred in connection with such reletting, including, but without limitation,
all repossession costs, brokerage commissions, legal expenses, attorneys' fees,
expenses of employees, alteration, remodeling, and repair costs and expenses of
preparation for such reletting. If, in connection with any reletting, the new
lease term extends beyond the existing Term or the premises covered thereby
include other premises not part of the Leased Premises, a fair apportionment of
the rent received from such reletting and the expenses incurred in connection
therewith, as provided aforesaid, will be made in determining the net proceeds
received from such reletting. In addition, in determining the net proceeds from
such reletting, any rent concessions will be apportioned over the term of the
new lease. Tenant shall pay such amounts to Landlord monthly on the days on
which Minimum Rent and Additional Rent and all other amounts owing hereunder
would have been payable if possession had not been retaken and Landlord shall be
entitled to receive the same from Tenant on each such day; or

                  (2) To give Tenant written notice of intention to terminate
this Lease on the date of such given notice or on any later date specified
therein and, on the date specified in such notice, Tenant's right to possession
of the Leased Premises shall cease and the Lease shall thereupon be terminated,
except as to Tenant's liability hereunder as hereinafter provided, as if the
expiration of the term fixed in such notice were the end of the Term herein
originally demised. In the event this Lease is terminated pursuant to the
provisions of this subparagraph (2), Tenant shall remain liable to Landlord for
damages in an amount equal

                                       41
<PAGE>   57
to the Minimum Rent and Additional Rent and other sums which would have been
owing by Tenant hereunder for the balance of the Term had this Lease not been
terminated less the net proceeds, if any, of any reletting of the Leased
Premises by Landlord subsequent to such termination, after deducting all
Landlord's commercially reasonable expenses in connection with such reletting,
including, but without limitation, the expenses enumerated above. Landlord shall
be entitled to collect such damages from Tenant monthly on the days on which the
Minimum Rent and Additional Rent and other amounts would have been payable
hereunder if this Lease had not been terminated and Landlord shall be entitled
to receive the same from Tenant on each such day. Alternatively, at the option
of Landlord, in the event this Lease is terminated, Landlord shall be entitled
to recover forthwith against Tenant as damages for loss of the bargain and not
as a penalty an amount equal to the worth at the time of termination of the
excess, if any, of the amount of Minimum Rent and Additional Rent reserved in
this Lease for the balance of the Term hereof over the then Reasonable Rental
Value of the Leased Premises for the same period plus all amounts incurred by
Landlord in order to obtain possession of the Leased Premises and relet the
same, including reasonable attorneys' fees, reletting expenses, alterations and
repair costs, brokerage commissions and all other like amounts, all discounted
to present value (calculated on the basis of a discount rate of 6% per annum).
It is agreed that the "Reasonable Rental Value" shall be the amount of rental
which Landlord can obtain as rent for the remaining balance of the term.

                  (c) Reletting at End of Term. At any time or from time to time
after Landlord takes possession of the Leased Premises pursuant to subparagraph
(1) or subparagraph (2) above, Landlord may relet the Leased Premises or any
part thereof, in the name of Landlord or otherwise, for such term or terms
(which may be greater or less than the period which would otherwise have
constituted the balance of the term of this Lease) and on such conditions if
commercially reasonable (which may include concessions or free rent) as
Landlord, in its reasonable discretion, may determine and may collect and
receive the rents therefor. Landlord shall in no way be responsible or liable
for any failure to relet the Leased Premises or any part thereof, or for any
failure to collect any rent due upon any such reletting; but Landlord shall use
reasonable efforts to relet the Leased Premises and to collect such rent;
provided, that Landlord shall have the right to give preference to other space
that Landlord may have in other buildings and not be required to expend monies
for tenant concessions and allowances beyond those for leases then being entered
into by Landlord for comparable space in other buildings at such time. If Tenant
has reason to believe that Landlord is not using reasonable diligence to
mitigate Landlord's damages, Tenant shall notify Landlord of such determination
as soon as reasonably practicable.


           44.     Intentionally Omitted.

           45.     Landlord's Default.

                  (a) Event of Default Defined. The term "Event of Default" with
respect to Landlord shall mean if default shall be made by Landlord in
performing any of the terms, covenants or agreements contained in this Lease on
Landlord's part to be performed, and such default shall continue for a period of
thirty (30) days after written notice thereof from Tenant to Landlord or, in the
case of such a default which cannot with due diligence and in good faith be
cured within thirty (30) days, Landlord fails to commence within such

                                       42
<PAGE>   58
thirty-day period to cure the same and thereafter to prosecute the curing of
such default with due diligence and in good faith.

                  (b)      Tenant's Remedies.

                           (i) Tenant's Right to Perform on Behalf of Landlord.
Landlord agrees that if an Event of Default occurs with respect to: (A)
Landlord's failure to pay any installment of assessments of any interest,
principal, costs or other charges upon any mortgage or mortgages or other liens
and encumbrances affecting the Leased Premises and to which this Lease may be
subordinate for which Tenant has not received a non-disturbance agreement in
accordance with Paragraph 38 when any of the same become due, or (B) Landlord's
failure to make any repairs, do any work or pay any monies to Tenant, required
of Landlord by the provisions of this Lease, or (C) respect to Landlord's
failure to perform any covenant or agreement in this Lease contained on the part
of Landlord to be performed; then Tenant may pay, but shall be under no
obligation to pay, said taxes, assessments, interest, principal, costs and other
charges, and may cure such defaults all on behalf of and at the expense of
Landlord, and do all necessary work (provided that Tenant gives prior notice of
not less than ten (10) days of its intention to do such and a description of the
work to be performed). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Landlord fails to
perform an obligation to repair or replace required under Paragraph 22(b) after
reasonable prior notice from Tenant and an emergency exists (threatening
imminent harm to persons or property in the Building), Tenant shall have the
right upon reasonable prior notice to Landlord to perform such repairs or
replacements (notwithstanding that the applicable periods and notice required
for an Event of Default by Landlord have not occurred). Except in the case of a
matter or thing for which Tenant is obligated to reimburse Landlord hereunder as
Additional Rent, Landlord agrees to pay to Tenant forthwith the amount so paid
by Tenant, including reasonable attorneys' fees, together with interest thereon
at the rate of eight percent (8%) per annum, and agrees that Tenant may withhold
any and all payments of Minimum Rent and Additional Rent thereafter becoming due
to Landlord pursuant to the provisions of this Lease or any extension thereof,
and may apply the same to the payment of such indebtedness of Landlord to Tenant
until such indebtedness is fully paid with interest thereon as herein provided
that Tenant may not withhold payment of Rent until after ten (10) days' prior
notice of Tenant's election to withhold to Landlord and Landlord's Mortgagee and
further provided, however, that if Landlord or the Mortgagee disputes by notice
to Tenant within such ten (10) day period that such amounts are owed by
Landlord, Tenant shall have no right to withhold such amounts until the amounts
are found to be due Tenant by arbitration. Nothing herein contained shall
preclude Tenant from proceeding to bring an action in accordance with Paragraph
(iii) below to collect the amount so paid by it as aforesaid without waiting for
such offsets from Minimum Rent or Additional Rent to accrue. Tenant hereby
waives the right to terminate this Lease or to offset against Minimum Rent and
Additional Rent existing at law or in equity or by statute or otherwise (to the
extent such waiver is not prohibited by applicable law) except in accordance
with the express terms and provisions of this Lease.

                           (ii) Landlord Not Released. Under no circumstances
shall the exercise by Tenant of the rights granted in subparagraph (a) above to
take all such action as may be necessary to cure any default by Landlord release
Landlord in any manner

                                       43
<PAGE>   59
whatsoever from liability for the performance of any obligations of Landlord
under the terms of this Lease.

                           (iii) Additional Remedies. Tenant may bring an action
for actual direct money damages or for injunctive relief, or both, in any court
of competent jurisdiction, provided any damages shall be subject to the
limitations and waivers provided in the Lease and in no event will Landlord or
any Mortgagee be responsible for any consequential damages incurred by Tenant
as a result of any default, including, but not limited to, lost profits, income
or interruption of business.

         46. Remedies Cumulative. Subject to the limitations and waivers
provided in the Lease, each right or remedy of Landlord and Tenant provided for
in this Lease shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other right
or remedy provided for in this Lease or otherwise, and the exercise or the
beginning of the exercise by Landlord or Tenant of any of one (1) or more of the
rights or remedies provided for in this Lease or now or hereafter existing at
law or in equity or by statute or otherwise, unless expressly prohibited,
limited or waived hereunder, shall not preclude the simultaneous or later
exercise by Landlord or Tenant of any and all other rights or remedies provided
for in this Lease or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute
or otherwise, unless expressly prohibited, limited or waived hereunder. In any
action brought by either party to enforce or contest any provision of this
Lease, or to obtain a declaration of the rights or responsibilities of either
party hereunder, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover all costs and
expenses, including attorneys' fees, reasonably incurred by such prevailing
party in connection with such action.

         47. No Waiver. No failure by Landlord or by Tenant to insist upon the
strict performance of any term, covenant or condition of this Lease or to
exercise any right or remedy consequent upon a breach thereof, and no acceptance
by Landlord of partial Rent during the continuance of any such breach, shall
constitute a waiver of any such breach or of such term, covenant or condition.
No term, covenant or condition of this Lease to be kept, observed or performed
by Landlord or by Tenant, and no breach thereof, shall be waived, altered or
modified, except by a written instrument executed by Landlord or by Tenant, as
the case may be. No waiver of any breach shall affect or alter this Lease, but
each and every term, covenant and condition of this Lease shall continue in full
force and effect with respect to any other then existing or subsequent breach
thereof.

         48. Waiver of Jury Trial. TENANT AND LANDLORD HEREBY WAIVE (TO THE
EXTENT ALLOWED BY LAW) ANY AND ALL RIGHTS TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN SUIT OR SUITS
BROUGHT TO ENFORCE ANY PROVISION OF THIS LEASE OR ARISING OUT OF OR CONCERNING
THE PROVISIONS OF THIS LEASE.

         49. Unavoidable Delays. If either party shall be prevented or delayed
from punctually performing any obligation or satisfying any condition under this
Lease by any strike, lockout, labor dispute, inability to obtain labor or
material, Act of God, adverse weather condition, governmental restriction,
regulation or control, enemy or hostile governmental action, civil commotion,
insurrection, sabotage, fire or other casualty or by any other event similar to
the foregoing beyond the reasonable control of such party, and not

                                       44
<PAGE>   60
the fault of the party delayed in performing any obligation or satisfying any
condition under this Lease (all such events being hereinafter called
"Unavoidable Delay"), then the time to perform such obligation or satisfy such
condition shall be postponed by the period of time consumed by the delay. If
either party shall, as a result of an Unavoidable Delay, be unable to exercise
any right or option within any time limit provided therefor in this Lease, the
time for exercise thereof shall be postponed for the period of time consumed by
such delay. In no event shall the periods specified in subparagraphs 2(e) and 9
above or the time limits for restoration after a destruction or a Taking as set
forth in Paragraphs 36 and 37 above be extended by reason of the foregoing
events of Unavoidable Delay for a period in excess of ninety (90) days. In no
event shall the obligation of either Landlord or Tenant to pay money be extended
by reason of the foregoing events of Unavoidable Delay.

          50. Relationship of Parties. Nothing contained in this Lease shall be
deemed or construed by the parties hereto or by any third party to create the
relationship of principal and agent or of partnership or of joint venture or of
any association whatsoever between Landlord and Tenant, it being expressly
understood and agreed that nothing herein shall be deemed to create any
relationship between Landlord and Tenant other than the relationship of landlord
and tenant. The obligations imposed by this Lease on Tenant shall be joint and
several obligations of the entities collectively constituting Tenant.

          51. Estoppel Certificates. Upon the request of either party, at any
time or from time to time, Landlord and Tenant agree to execute, acknowledge and
deliver to the other, within fifteen (15) days after such request, a written
instrument, duly executed and acknowledged,

                  (a) certifying that this Lease has not been modified and is in
full force and effect or, if there has been a modification of this Lease, that
this Lease is in full force and effect as modified, stating such modifications;

                  (b) specifying the dates to which all sums payable hereunder
by either Landlord or Tenant, including without limitation, Minimum Rent,
Additional Rent and Landlord's Contribution, have been paid;

                  (c) stating whether or not, to the knowledge of the party
executing such instrument, the other party hereto is in default and, if such
party is in default, stating the nature of such default;

                  (d) stating the Rent Commencement Date;

                  (e) stating which Renewal Options have been exercised or
deemed waived, if any; and

                  (f) such other information as the party requesting the
estoppel may reasonably request.

It is intended that any such statement delivered pursuant to this Paragraph may
be relied upon by any prospective purchaser of all or any portion of Landlord's
interest herein or a holder of any mortgage or deed of trust encumbering the
Leased Premises. If either party

                                       45
<PAGE>   61
fails to provide such statement to the requesting party within such 15 day
period, and such failure continues for 5 days following additional notice of
such failure from the requesting party, such failure shall be deemed an Event of
Default, without further notice or opportunity to cure being required.

         52. Broker. Tenant represents and warrants that it has dealt with no
broker or brokers in connection with this Lease. Landlord represents and
warrants that it has dealt with no broker or brokers in connection with this
Lease, except John Burnham & Company (the "Broker") (whose commission shall be
paid by Landlord pursuant to separate agreement). Each party will defend,
indemnify and hold harmless the other from any loss, cost, damage or expense
arising by reason of any actual or alleged breach of the foregoing warranty.
Tenant acknowledges that Tenant is not relying on any representations or
warranties of Broker.

         53. Covenants to Run with the Land; Binding Effect. Subject to the
provisions of this Lease, the terms, covenants, agreements, provisions,
conditions and limitations herein contained shall be construed as covenants
running with the land and shall bind and inure to the benefit of the heirs,
executors, administrators, successors and assigns, respectively, of Landlord and
Tenant. This Lease is to be construed as though the covenants between Landlord
and Tenant are independent and not dependent and Tenant is not entitled to any
setoff of the Rent against Landlord if Landlord fails to perform its
obligations, except as expressly provided herein.

         54. Choice of Law. This Lease and the rights and obligations of the
parties hereto, shall be interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of California.

         55. Entire Agreement; Interpretation. This Lease and the Exhibits
attached hereto contain the entire agreement between the parties, and no oral
statements or representations of prior written matter not contained herein shall
have any force or effect. This Lease and the Exhibits attached hereto cannot be
changed, modified or amended unless such change, modification or amendment is in
writing and executed by the party against which the enforcement of the change,
modification or amendment is sought. The parties waive any rule of construction
that ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party. Any words
following the words "include," "including," "such as," "for example," or similar
words or phrases shall be illustrative only and are not intended to be
exclusive, whether or not language of non-limitation is used.

         56. Invalidity of Certain Provisions. If any provision of this Lease
shall be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of the provisions of this Lease
shall not be affected thereby and each and every provision of this Lease shall
be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.

         57. Captions. The captions preceding the paragraphs of this Lease are
intended only as a matter of convenience and for reference and in no way define,
limit or describe the scope of this Lease or the intent of any provision hereof.
Wherever applicable hereunder, the neuter pronoun shall be deemed to include the
masculine and feminine pronoun and the singular shall be deemed to include the
plural.

                                       46
<PAGE>   62
         58. Definitions. As used in this Lease, the following Terms shall have
the respective meanings indicated opposite each of them.

"Additional Rent"                  Sums for Real Estate Taxes, Utilities, sums
                                   owing under the Declaration, Landlord's Fire
                                   Insurance, and all other amounts, except
                                   Minimum Rent, payable by Tenant pursuant to
                                   this Lease, whether to Landlord or to a
                                   third party.

"Alterations"                      As defined in subparagraph 23(a).

"Alternative Tax"                  As defined in subparagraph 6(b).

"Ancillary Uses"                   As defined in Paragraph 17.

"Assumed Lease"                    As defined in subparagraph 4(c).

"Authorities"                      As defined in subparagraph 28(b).

"Building"                         As defined in Paragraph 1.

"Broker"                           As defined in Paragraph 52.

"Casualty Damage"                  As defined in subparagraph 36(a).

"Commencement Date"                As defined in subparagraph 2(a).

"Commitment"                       As defined in subparagraph 16(b)

"Comparable Building"              As defined in subparagraph 4(c).

"Completion Date"                  As defined in Paragraph 9.

"Completion Deadline"              As defined in subparagraph 2(g)

"Construction Deadline"            As defined in subparagraph 2(g).

"Declaration"                      As defined in Paragraph 1.

"89-1 Bond"                        As defined in subparagraph 6(a)

"Equipment Lessor"                 As defined in subparagraph 24(a).

"Escrow Agent"                     As defined in subparagraph 6(a)

"Event of  Default"                As defined in subparagraph 43(a) and 45.


                                       47
<PAGE>   63
"Existing Premises"                As defined in subparagraph 2(g).

"Expiration Date"                  As defined in subparagraph 2(a).

"Fair Market Rental Value"         As defined in subparagraph 4(c).

"Final Plans and Specifications"   As defined in subparagraph 7(a).

"Full Replacement Cost"            As defined in subparagraph 33(b).

"Hazardous Materials"              As defined in Paragraph 18.

"Initial Term"                     As defined in subparagraph 2(a).

"Interest Rate"                    As defined in subparagraph 4(c).

"Landlord"                         Landlord named herein and any subsequent
                                   owner of any part of Landlord's fee interest
                                   in the Leased Premises ("Landlord's
                                   Estate"), but any owner of any part of
                                   Landlord's Estate shall be relieved of all
                                   liability under this Lease after the date
                                   that it ceases to be the owner of any part
                                   of Landlord's Estate (except for any
                                   liability arising prior to such date)
                                   provided that the party succeeding to any
                                   part of Landlord's Estate shall have
                                   executed an agreement, wherein it assumes
                                   and agrees to perform all of Landlord's
                                   obligations under this Lease from and after
                                   the date it acquires any part of Landlord's
                                   Estate. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
                                   Landlord named herein shall not, in any
                                   event, be relieved of its obligations to
                                   complete Landlord's Work in accordance with
                                   the terms hereof, which obligations shall
                                   remain a personal covenant of Landlord named
                                   herein.


"Landlord's Architect"             As defined in subparagraph 7(b)

"Landlord's Contribution"          As defined in subparagraph 13.

"Landlord's Delay"                 As defined in Paragraph 16.

"Landlord's Fire Insurance"        As defined in subparagraph 33(a).

"Landlord's Improvements"          As defined in Paragraph 8


                                       48
<PAGE>   64
"Landlord's Liability Insurance"   As defined in subparagraph 32(b).

"Landlord's Punchlist"             As defined in Paragraph 9.

"Landlord's Work"                  As defined in subparagraph 8(a).

"Lease Year"                       As defined in subparagraph 2(c).

"Leased Premises"                  As defined in Paragraph 1.

"Memorandum"                       As defined in Paragraph 41.

"Minimum Rent"                     As defined in Paragraph 4.

"Mortgagee"                        As defined in subparagraph 38(c).

"Park"                             As defined in Paragraph 1.

"Permits"                          As defined in subparagraph 28(b).

"Permitted Exceptions"             As defined in Paragraph 40.

"Permitted Use"                    As defined in Paragraph 17.

"Primary Use"                      As defined in Paragraph 17

"Punchlist Items"                  As defined in Paragraph 9

"Qualified Appraiser"              As defined in subparagraph 4(c).

"Real Estate Taxes"                As defined in subparagraph 6(a).

"Reasonable Rental Value"          As defined in subparagraph 43(b)

"Renewal Option"                   As defined in subparagraph 3(a).

"Renewal Period"                   As defined in subparagraph 3(a).

"Rent"                             Minimum Rent and Additional Rent.

"Rent Commencement Date"           As defined in subparagraph 2(b).

"Requirements"                     As defined in subparagraph 28(b).

"Specially Approved Uses"          As defined in Paragraph 17.

                                       49
<PAGE>   65
"Structure"                                  As defined in subparagraph 22(b)

"Structural Repairs"                         As defined in subparagraph 22(b).

"Substantial Casualty Damage"                As defined in subparagraph 36(b).

"Substantial Completion"                     As defined in Paragraph 9.

"Taking"                                     As defined in subparagraph 37(a).

"Tenant Delay"                               As defined in Paragraph 16.

"Tenant Fixtures"                            As defined in subparagraph 24(a).

"Tenant Ready"                               As defined in Paragraph 9

"Tenant Ready Date"                          As defined in Paragraph 9

"Tenant's Architect"                         As defined in subparagraph 7(c)

"Tenant's Builder's Risk Insurance"          As defined in subparagraph 33(b)

"Tenant's Holdover Costs"                    As defined in subparagraph 2(e)

"Tenant's Improvements"                      As defined in Paragraph 12

"Tenant's Liability Insurance"               As defined in subparagraph 32(a).

"Tenant's Plans and Specifications"          As defined in subparagraph 7(c).

"Tenant's Property Insurance"                As defined in subparagraph 33(b)

"Tenant's Signage"                           As defined in Paragraph 19.

"Tenant's Work"                              As defined in subparagraph 12.

"Term"                                       As defined in subparagraph 2(a).

"Title Company"                              As defined in Paragraph 40.

"Unavoidable Delay"                          As defined in Paragraph 49.

"Utilities"                                  As defined in subparagraph 21(a).

                                       50
<PAGE>   66
"Zoning and Building Laws"                   As defined in subparagraph 28(a).

                   59. Arbitration. Should any dispute arise with respect to any
provision of this Lease and such provision states that the matter in dispute is
to be resolved by arbitration hereunder, the matter in dispute shall be referred
to arbitration. Within ten (10) days following receipt of a request for
arbitration, each party shall choose an arbitrator from a panel of arbitrators,
and within ten (10) days thereafter, the two selected shall choose a third
arbitrator. In the event that the two arbitrators chosen cannot agree upon a
third arbitrator, the American Arbitration Association shall be requested to
supply an arbitrator and this request may be made by either arbitrator. The
panel of arbitrators shall be supplied by the American Arbitration Association
and, except for arbitration under subparagraph 7(d) and Paragraph 45, the panel
shall all be qualified appraisers (as defined in Paragraph 4). The arbitration
proceedings shall take place in the City of San Diego, California pursuant to
the rules then obtaining of the American Arbitration Association. The
arbitration shall be completed as soon as possible. The decision of the majority
of arbitrators on the matter in dispute shall be final, conclusive and binding
upon the parties and the arbitrators shall also have the power to determine
allocation of costs of the proceedings between the parties; judgments may be
entered thereon in any court of competent jurisdiction and no appeal may be
taken therefrom.

                  60. Limitation on Landlord Liability. NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING
TO THE CONTRARY CONTAINED IN THIS LEASE, LANDLORD'S LIABILITY IS LIMITED TO
LANDLORD'S INTEREST IN THE LEASED PREMISES.

                  61. Guaranty. Landlord is entering into this Lease in reliance
on the guaranty by Advanta Corp., a Delaware corporation of even date herewith,
a copy of which is attached hereto as EXHIBIT "B".


                  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have entered into this
Lease effective as of August 27, 1997, having executed this Lease on the dates
set forth in the following notarizations. This Lease may be executed in
counterparts, each of which (or any combination of which) when signed by all of
the parties shall be deemed an original, but all of which when taken together
shall constitute but one agreement. Any one or more of such duplicate signature
pages may be removed from any one or more of such counterparts and

                                       51
<PAGE>   67
annexed to other counterparts and duplicate signature pages to form a completely
executed original Lease.

                                   LANDLORD:

                                   SAN DIEGO DEVELOPMENT #1, LLC, a Colorado
                                   limited liability company

                                   By:  SD #1, LLC, a Colorado limited liability
                                        company, Member

                                   By:  The Pauls Corporation, LLC, a Colorado
                                        limited liability company, Its Manager
                                        and Member

                                   By:  /s/ William B. Pauls
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        William B. Pauls, Manager

                                   By:  GE Investment Realty Partners III
                                        Limited Partnership, a Delaware
                                        limited partnership, Member

                                   By:  GE Investment Management Incorporated,
                                        general partner


                                   By:  /s/ Michael J. Strone
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                                VP

                                   By:  MGA Real Estate Associates, LLLP,
                                        a Colorado limited liability limited
                                        partnership, Member

                                   By:  /s/ James H. Miller
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Authorized Signatory

STATE OF COLORADO                       )
                                        ) ss.
CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER               )

         The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this 8th day of
Sept., 1997, by William B. Pauls, as Manager of The Pauls Corporation, LLC, a
Colorado limited liability company, as Manager and Member of SD #1, LLC, a
Colorado limited liability company, a Member of San Diego Development #1, LLC, a
Colorado limited liability company.

                              Witness my hand and official seal.

                              My commission expires: 1/03/99


                                        /s/ LORRAINE K. BLAKE
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Notary Public

                                       52
<PAGE>   68
STATE OF CONNECTICUT          )
                              ) ss.
COUNTY OF FAIRFIELD           )

          The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this 10th day of
September, 1997, by Michael J. Strone, as VP of GE Investment Realty Partners
III Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, a Member of SD #1, LLC,
a Colorado limited liability company, a Member of San Diego Development #1, LLC,
a Colorado limited liability company.

                              Witness my hand and official seal.

                              My commission expires: 1/31/02


                                        /s/ LaVerne M. Burzynski
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Notary Public


STATE OF COLORADO             )
                              ) ss.
CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER     )

          The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this 8th day of
Sept., 1997, by James H. Miller as authorized signatory of MGA Real Estate
Associates, LLLP, a Colorado limited liability limited partnership, a member of
San Diego Development #1, LLC, a Colorado limited liability company.

                              Witness my hand and official seal.

                              My commission expires: 1/03/99


                                        /s/ Lorraine K. Blake
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Notary Public

signatures and notarizations continued on next page

                                       53
<PAGE>   69
                                             TENANT:

                                             ADVANTA MORTGAGE CORP. USA,
                                             a Delaware corporation

                                             By: John J. Crowe Jr.
                                             Title: V.P.



[Corporate Seal]                             Attest: Robert Cardwell
                                                     Asst. Secretary



STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA         )
                              : ss.
COUNTY OF                     )


          On this the 2nd day of Sept., 1997 before me the subscriber, a notary
public in and for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, personally appeared John J.
Crowe, Jr., who acknowledged himself to be the V.P. of ADVANTA MORTGAGE CORP.
USA, a Delaware corporation, and that he as such                  , being
authorized to do so, executed the foregoing instrument for the purpose therein
contained by signing the name of the corporation by himself as                .

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and official seal.


[Notarial Seal]                              /s/ Betty Van Sant
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Notary Public

                                             My Commission Expires:

                                                        NOTARIAL SEAL
                                                BETTY VAN SANT, NOTARY PUBLIC
                                               HORSHAM TWP., MONTGOMERY COUNTY
                                             MY COMMISSION EXPIRES FEB. 22, 1999

                                       54
<PAGE>   70
                                   EXHIBIT "A"

                     [Legal Description of Leased Premises]

Lot 63 of County of San Diego Tract No. 4478, according to the Map thereof No.
11984, filed in the Office of the County Recorder of San Diego County, January
7, 1988 as File No. 88-006481 of Official Records, in the County of San Diego,
State of California
<PAGE>   71
                                  CORPORATE GUARANTY

         In consideration of and as an inducement for the granting, execution
and delivery of that certain Lease, dated August 27, 1997 (hereinafter called
"Lease"), by SAN DIEGO DEVELOPMENT #1 LLC, a Colorado limited liability company,
the Landlord therein named (hereinafter called "Landlord"), to ADVANTA MORTGAGE
CORP. USA, a Delaware corporation, the Tenant therein named (hereinafter called
"Tenant") with respect to premises commonly known as lot 63, 4S Ranch and
located on Rancho Bernardo Road in the County of San Diego, California, and in
further consideration of the sum of One Dollar ($1.00) and other good and
valuable consideration paid by Landlord to the undersigned, ADVANTA CORP., a
Delaware corporation (hereinafter called "Guarantor"), intending to be legally
bound, hereby guarantees to Landlord the full and prompt payment when due of all
Minimum Rent and Additional Rent and any and all other sums and charges payable
by Tenant under the Lease, and the full, faithful and prompt performance and
observance of all the covenants, terms, conditions, and agreements therein
provided to be performed and observed by Tenant, to the same extent as though
both Guarantor and Tenant had been named in the Lease as tenants therein with
joint and several liability, (the "Obligations"); and Guarantor does hereby
become surety to Landlord for and with respect to all of the Obligations.

         Guarantor hereby covenants and agrees to and with Landlord that if
default shall at any time be made by Tenant in the payment of any such rent or
other sums or charges payable by Tenant under the Lease or in the performance of
any of the covenants, terms, conditions or agreements contained in the Lease,
Guarantor will forthwith pay such rent or other sums or charges to Landlord, and
any arrears thereof, and will forthwith faithfully perform and fulfill all of
such covenants, terms, conditions and agreements, and will forthwith pay to
Landlord all damages and all costs and expenses that may arise in consequence of
any default by Tenant under the Lease (including, without limitation, all
reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by Landlord or caused by any such default
and/or by the enforcement of this Guaranty).

         This Guaranty is an absolute and unconditional guaranty of payment (and
not of collection) and of performance and is a surety agreement. Guarantor's
liability hereunder is direct and may be enforced without Landlord being
required to resort to any other right, remedy or security and this Guaranty
shall be enforceable against Guarantor, without the necessity for any suit or
proceedings on Landlord's part of any kind or nature whatsoever against Tenant,
and without the necessity of any notice of non-payment, non-performance or
non-observance or the continuance of any such default or of any notice of
acceptance of this Guaranty or of Landlord's intention to act in reliance hereon
or of any other notice or demand to which Guarantor might otherwise be entitled,
all of which Guarantor hereby expressly waives; and Guarantor hereby expressly
agrees that the validity of this Guaranty and the Obligations of Guarantor
hereunder shall in nowise be terminated, affected or impaired by reason of the
assertion or the failure to assert by Landlord against Tenant, of
<PAGE>   72
any of the rights or remedies reserved to Landlord pursuant to the provisions of
the Lease. Landlord may maintain successive actions for other defaults. Its
rights hereunder shall not be exhausted by its exercise of any of its rights or
remedies or by any such action or by any number of successive actions, until and
unless all Obligations hereby guaranteed have been paid and fully performed.

          This Guaranty shall be a continuing Guaranty, and (whether or not
Guarantor shall have notice or knowledge of any of the following) the liability
and obligation of Guarantor hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional and
shall remain in full force and effect without regard to, and shall not be
released, discharged or in any way impaired by (a) any amendment or modification
of, or supplement to, or extension or renewal of, the Lease or any assignment or
transfer thereof; (b) any exercise or non-exercise of any right, power, remedy
or privilege under or in respect of the Lease or this Guaranty or any waiver,
consent or approval by Landlord with respect to any of the covenants, terms,
conditions or agreements contained in the Lease or any indulgences, forbearances
or extensions of time for performance or observance allowed to Tenant from time
to time and for any length of time; (c) any bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization, arrangement, readjustment, composition, liquidation or similar
proceeding relating to Tenant, or its properties; (d) any limitation on the
liability or obligation of Tenant under the Lease or its estate in bankruptcy or
of any remedy for the enforcement thereof resulting from the operation of any
present or future provision of the federal bankruptcy law or any other statute
or from the decision of any court; (e) any sublease or transfer by Tenant or any
assignment, mortgage or pledge of its interest under the Lease (f) any
termination of the Lease prior to the expiration of its Term; or (g) any
agreement entered into between the Landlord and a Qualified Assignee or a
Qualified Subtenant or any New Lease or other agreement entered into between
Landlord and the holder of any Leasehold Mortgage (or between Landlord and the
nominee of any such holder of a Leasehold Mortgage).

         All of Landlord's rights and remedies under the Lease and under this
Guaranty are intended to be distinct, separate and cumulative and no such right
and remedy therein or herein mentioned is intended to be in exclusion of or a
waiver of any of the others. No termination of the Lease or repossession or
recovering of the premises demised thereby shall deprive Landlord of any of its
rights and remedies against Guarantor under this Guaranty. This Guaranty shall
apply to the Obligations pursuant to any extension, renewal, amendment,
modification and supplement of or to the Lease as well as to the Obligations
thereunder during the original Term thereof in accordance with the original
provisions thereof.

         The Guarantor hereby waives any requirement that the Landlord protect,
secure, perfect or insure any security interest or lien or any property subject
thereto or exhaust any right to take any action against any person or any
collateral (including any rights relating to marshaling of assets). Guarantor
expressly waives: (i) any and all rights of subrogation, reimbursement,
indemnification and contribution until the Obligations have been paid and fully
performed, (ii) any other rights and defenses that are or may become available
to the

                                       2
<PAGE>   73
Guarantor by reason of Sections 2787 through 2855, inclusive, of the California
Civil Code, as such Sections may be amended, recodified, or replaced from time
to time; (iii) any rights or defenses that Guarantor may have arising out of an
election of remedies by Landlord; and (iv) any other statutory or common law
rights (to the extent that waiver is not prohibited by law) that are
inconsistent with the provisions of this Guaranty.

         The Obligations will be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of
the Lease, regardless of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity or
enforceability of the Obligations, and of any law, regulation or order now or
hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction affecting any of such terms or the
rights of the Landlord with respect thereto. The liability of the Guarantor to
the extent herein set forth shall be absolute and unconditional, not subject to
any reduction, limitation, impairment, termination, defense, offset,
counterclaim or recoupment whatsoever (all of which are hereby expressly waived
by the Guarantor) whether by reason of any claim of any character whatsoever,
including, without limitation, any claim of waiver, release, surrender,
alteration or compromise, or by reason of any liability at any time to the
Guarantor or otherwise, whether based upon any obligations or any other
agreements or otherwise, howsoever arising, whether out of action or inaction or
otherwise and whether resulting from default, willful misconduct, negligence or
otherwise, and without limiting the foregoing irrespective of: (a) any lack of
validity or enforceability of the Lease or of any agreement or instrument
relating thereto; (b) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or
in any other term in respect of, all or any of the Obligations, or any other
amendment or waiver of or consent to Obligations, or any other amendment or
waiver of or consent to any departure from the Lease or any other agreement
relating to any Obligations; (c) any increase in, addition to, exchange or
release of, or nonperfection of any lien on or security interest in, any
collateral or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to any departure
from or failure to enforce any other guarantee, for all or any of the
indebtedness; (d) any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a
defense available to, or a discharge of, the Tenant in respect of the
Obligations of the Guarantor in respect hereof; (e) the absence of any action
on the part of the Landlord to obtain payment for the Obligations from the
Tenant; (f) any insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization or dissolution, or any
proceeding of the Tenant or the Guarantor, including, without limitation,
rejection of the guaranteed Obligations in such bankruptcy; or (g) the absence
of notice or any delay in any action to enforce any Obligations or to exercise
any right or remedy against the Guarantor or the Tenant, whether hereunder,
under any Obligations or under any agreement or any indulgence, compromise or
extension granted.

         Guarantor agrees that in the event Tenant shall become insolvent or
shall be adjudicated a bankrupt, or shall file a petition for reorganization,
arrangement or similar relief under any present or future provisions of the
United States Bankruptcy Code, or any similar law or statute of the United
States or any State thereof, or if such a petition filed by creditors of Tenant
shall be approved by a Court, or if Tenant shall seek a judicial readjustment of
the rights of its creditors under any present or future Federal or State law or
if a receiver of all or part of its property and assets is appointed by any
State or Federal court:

                                       3
<PAGE>   74
                  (a) if the Lease shall be terminated or rejected, or the
obligations of Tenant thereunder shall be modified, Landlord shall have the
option either (i) to require the undersigned, and the undersigned hereby so
agree, to execute and deliver to Landlord a new lease as tenant for the balance
of the term then remaining as provided in the Lease and upon the same terms and
conditions as set forth therein, or (ii) to recover from the undersigned that
which Landlord would be entitled to recover from Tenant under the Lease in the
event of a termination of the Lease by Landlord because of a default by Tenant,
and such shall be recoverable from the undersigned without regard to whether
Landlord is entitled to recover the same from Tenant in any such proceeding; and

                  (b) if Guarantor has any claims against Tenant upon any
indebtedness of Tenant to Guarantor in any bankruptcy or other proceeding,
Guarantor agrees to subordinate all of Guarantor's rights to any such payments
or distributions to the rights of Landlord or pay any amounts recovered to
Landlord as a credit against the Obligations until the Obligations are fully
paid.

         Guarantor further agrees that, to the extent that the Tenant or the
Guarantor makes a payment or payments to the Landlord, which payment or payments
or any part thereof are subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or
preferential, set aside and/or required to be repaid to the Tenant or the
Guarantor or their respective estate, trustee, receiver or any other party under
any bankruptcy law, state or federal law, common law or equitable cause, then to
the extent of such payment or repayment, this Guaranty and the advances or part
thereof which have been paid, reduced or satisfied by such amount shall be
reinstated and continued in full force and effect as of the date of such initial
payment, reduction or satisfaction occurred.

         Tenant is a wholly owned subsidiary of Guarantor as of the date hereof.
If at any time hereafter Tenant is neither (i) a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Guarantor or of an Affiliate; or (ii) directly or indirectly controlled by or
under common control with Guarantor or an Affiliate, and provided Tenant or
Guarantor gives written notice of such fact to Landlord, with reasonable
evidence of the basis on which such determination is made then at all times
thereafter (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof):

                  (a) Landlord will furnish Guarantor with a copy of any notice
of default given by Landlord to Tenant under the Lease;

                  (b) Guarantor will not be in default of Guarantors Obligations
hereunder unless and until Landlord shall have furnished Guarantor written
demand for payment hereunder and Guarantor shall have failed to pay sums due
hereunder for more than fifteen (15) days following such demand; and

                  (c) Following the expiration of the Initial Term and any
Renewal Periods (to the extent the Lease is extended substantially in accordance
with Paragraph 3 of the Lease), Guarantor will be released from liability
hereunder if Landlord and Tenant further

                                        4
<PAGE>   75
extend the term of the Lease (other than Tenant's holding over under Paragraph
30 of the Lease).

         For purposes of this paragraph, an "Affiliate" shall mean any person or
         entity that wholly-owns or controls Guarantor or is wholly-owned or
         controlled by Guarantor or is under common-control with Guarantor.

         If Landlord and Tenant elect to amend the Lease to materially increase
the monetary obligations of Tenant under the Lease without the consent of
Guarantor, the amendment shall be binding on them and Guarantor's liability
under this Guaranty shall remain in full force and effect, but the amendment
shall not be enforceable against Guarantor as guaranteed Obligations if and only
to the extent it would result in an increase in Guarantor's Obligations under
this Guaranty.

         This Guaranty shall be legally binding upon Guarantor and its
successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of Landlord and its
successors and assigns; if Landlord disposes of, sells, transfers, assigns,
hypothecates or otherwise conveys its interest in the Lease, or any part
thereof, "Landlord" as used in this Guaranty, shall include Landlord's
successor. Reference here to Tenant shall be deemed to include Tenant and its
successors and assigns. The word "successor" is used herein in its most
comprehensive sense and includes any assignee, transferee, personal
representative, heir or other person or entity succeeding to the respective
rights or obligations of either party. The terms and provisions of this Guaranty
shall be governed by the laws of the State of California.

         Guarantor and Landlord (by its acceptance of this guaranty) hereby
mutually waive trial by jury in connection with any dispute arising hereunder.

         Guarantor hereby consents to and submits to the jurisdiction of the
federal and state courts located in the State of California and any action or
suit under this Guaranty by Guarantor shall only be brought in the federal or
state court with appropriate jurisdiction over the subject matter established or
sitting in the State of California. Guarantor shall not raise, in connection
with any action or suit under the Guaranty, and hereby waives any defenses based
on the venue, inconvenience of the forum, lack of personal jurisdiction, the
sufficiency of service of process or the like in any such action or suit brought
in the State of California. Notices to Guarantor hereunder shall be sent by
personal delivery, certified or registered mail with return receipt requested,
or nationally recognized overnight courier service with receipt, or by facsimile
to the following address (any notice delivered by telecopier in accordance with
this paragraph shall be deemed to have been duly given upon

                                       5
<PAGE>   76
receipt if concurrently with sending by telecopier receipt is confirmed and a
copy is sent by mail on the same day):

                    Advanta Corp.
                    Attention: Vice President, Advanta Corporate Services
                    200 Tournament Drive
                    Horsham, PA 19044

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Guarantor, intending to be legally bound hereby,
has caused this Guaranty to be executed by its duly authorized officer and its
corporate seal to be hereunto duly affixed, effective as of the 27th day of
August, 1997.

                                        ADVANTA CORP.

                                        By: /s/ Christopher S. Derzane

                                        Title:    SVP

[Corporate Seal]                        Attest:   /s/ Carl J. Deagler
                                                  Asst. Secretary
STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA         )
                              : ss.
COUNTY OF                     )

         On this the 27th day of August, 1997, before me the subscriber, a
notary public in and for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, personally appeared
Christopher S. Derzane, who acknowledged himself to be the SVP of ADVANTA
MORTGAGE CORP. USA, a Delaware corporation, and that he as such SVP, being
authorized to do so, executed the foregoing instrument for the purpose therein
contained by signing the name of the corporation by himself as Christopher S.
Derzane.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF I hereunto set my hand and official seal.

[Notarial Seal]                              /s/ Betty Van Sant
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Notary Public

                                             My Commission Expires: 2/22/99

                                                        NOTARIAL SEAL
                                                BETTY VAN SANT, NOTARY PUBLIC
                                               HORSHAM TWP., MONTGOMERY COUNTY
                                             MY COMMISSION EXPIRES FEB. 22, 1999

                                        6
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.X
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED & RESTATED SALE & SERVICING AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                    Exhibit 10-X

                              AMENDED AND RESTATED
                          SALE AND SERVICING AGREEMENT
                           Dated as of August 31, 1999

                                      among



                  ADVANTA HOME EQUITY LOAN OWNER TRUST 1998-MS1
                                    (Issuer)



                        ADVANTA CONDUIT RECEIVABLES INC.

                                   (Depositor)



                           ADVANTA MORTGAGE CORP. USA
                                   (Servicer)



                               ADVANTA BANK CORP.,
                             ADVANTA NATIONAL BANK,


                                       and

                           ADVANTA MORTGAGE CORP. USA
                               (Loan Originators)




                                 ADVANTA CORP.,


                               (Transfer Obligor)

                                       and

                    BANKERS TRUST COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA, N.A.
                               (Indenture Trustee)

                  ADVANTA HOME EQUITY LOAN OWNER TRUST 1998-MS1
             HOME EQUITY LOAN ASSET-BACKED NOTES ISSUABLE IN SERIES
<PAGE>   2
                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                                Page
<S>                                                                                                             <C>
                                    ARTICLE I

                                   DEFINITIONS

 Section 1.01  Definitions ................................................................................       2
 Section 1.02  Other Definitional Provisions ..............................................................      32


                                   ARTICLE II

       CONVEYANCE OF THE TRUST ESTATE; ADDITIONAL NOTE PRINCIPAL BALANCES

 Section 2.01  Conveyance of the Trust Estate; Additional Note Principal Balances .........................      33
 Section 2.02  Ownership and Possession of Loan Files .....................................................      35
 Section 2.03  Books and Records; Intention of the Parties ................................................      35
 Section 2.04  Delivery of Loan Documents .................................................................      36
 Section 2.05  Acceptance by the Indenture Trustee of the Loans; Certain Substitutions and Repurchases;
                    Certification by the Custodian ........................................................      38
 Section 2.06  Conditions Precedent to Transfer Dates and Collateral Value Excess Dates ...................      39
 Section 2.07  Termination of Revolving Period ............................................................      42
 Section 2.08  Correction of Errors .......................................................................      42


                                   ARTICLE III

                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

 Section 3.01  Representations and Warranties of the Depositor ............................................      42
 Section 3.02  Representations and Warranties of the Loan Originators .....................................      44
 Section 3.03  Representations, Warranties and Covenants of the Servicer ..................................      48
 Section 3.04  Representations and Warranties of the Transfer Obligor .....................................      50
 Section 3.05  Representations and Warranties Regarding Loans .............................................      52
 Section 3.06  Repurchase and Substitution ................................................................      52
 Section 3.07  Dispositions ...............................................................................      54
 Section 3.08  Loan Originator Put; Servicer Call .........................................................      58
 Section 3.09  Modification of Underwriting Guidelines ....................................................      58
</TABLE>
<PAGE>   3
<TABLE>
<S>                                                                                                             <C>
                                   ARTICLE IV

                    ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICING OF THE LOANS

 Section 4.01  Duties of the Servicer .....................................................................      58
 Section 4.02  Collection of Certain Loan Payments ........................................................      60
 Section 4.03  Subservicing Agreements Between Servicer and Subservicers ..................................      61
 Section 4.04  Successor Subservicers .....................................................................      61
 Section 4.05  Liability of Servicer ......................................................................      61
 Section 4.06  No Contractual Relationship Between Subservicer and Indenture Trustee or the Securityholders      62
 Section 4.07  Assumption or Termination of Subservicing Agreement by Successor Servicer ..................      62
 Section 4.08  Servicing Advances .........................................................................      62
 Section 4.09  Reserved ...................................................................................      62
 Section 4.10  Maintenance of Insurance ...................................................................      62
 Section 4.11  Due-on-Sale Clauses; Assumption and Substitution Agreements ................................      63
 Section 4.12  Realization Upon Defaulted Loans ...........................................................      64
 Section 4.13  Release of Files ...........................................................................      65
 Section 4.14  Access to Information ......................................................................      66
 Section 4.15  Release of Loan Files ......................................................................      67
 Section 4.16  Servicing Compensation .....................................................................      67
 Section 4.17  Statement as to Compliance and Financial Statements ........................................      68
 Section 4.18  Independent Public Accountants' Servicing Report ...........................................      68
 Section 4.19  ARMs .......................................................................................      69
 Section 4.20  Year 2000 Compliance .......................................................................      69
 Section 4.21  Inspections by the Majority Noteholders and the Indenture Trustee ..........................      70
 Section 4.22  Errors and Omissions Insurance .............................................................      70


                                    ARTICLE V

              ESTABLISHMENT OF TRUST ACCOUNTS; TRANSFER OBLIGATION

 Section 5.01  Collection Account and Distribution Account; Reserve Account ...............................      70
 Section 5.02  Payments to Securityholders ................................................................      75
 Section 5.03  Trust Accounts; Trust Account Property .....................................................      76
 Section 5.04  Advance Account ............................................................................      78
 Section 5.05  Transfer Obligation Account ................................................................      78
 Section 5.06  Transfer Obligation ........................................................................      80
</TABLE>
<PAGE>   4
<TABLE>
<S>                                                                                                             <C>

                                   ARTICLE VI

              STATEMENTS AND REPORTS; SPECIFICATION OF TAX MATTERS

 Section 6.01  Statements .................................................................................      81
 Section 6.02  Specification of Certain Tax Matters .......................................................      84
 Section 6.03  Valuation of Loans, Hedge Value and Retained Securities Value; Market Value Agent ..........      85


                                   ARTICLE VII

                                     HEDGING

 Section 7.01  Hedging Instruments ........................................................................      85


                                  ARTICLE VIII

                                  THE SERVICER

 Section 8.01  Indemnification; Third Party Claims.........................................................      86
 Section 8.02  Merger or Consolidation of the Servicer.....................................................      89
 Section 8.03  Limitation on Liability of the Servicer and Others..........................................      89
 Section 8.04  Servicer Not to Resign; Assignment..........................................................      89
 Section 8.05  Relationship of Servicer to Issuer and the Indenture Trustee................................      90
 Section 8.06  Servicer May Own Securities.................................................................      90
 Section 8.07  Indemnification of the Indenture Trustee and Initial Noteholder.............................      90


                                   ARTICLE IX

                           SERVICER EVENTS OF DEFAULT

 Section 9.01  Servicer Events of Default..................................................................      91
 Section 9.02  Appointment of Successor....................................................................      92
 Section 9.03  Waiver of Defaults..........................................................................      93
 Section 9.04  Accounting Upon Termination of Servicer.....................................................      94


                                    ARTICLE X

                             TERMINATION, PUT OPTION

 Section 10.01  Termination................................................................................      94
 Section 10.02  Optional Termination.......................................................................      95
 Section 10.03  Notice of Termination......................................................................      95
 Section 10.04  Put Option.................................................................................      95
</TABLE>
<PAGE>   5
<TABLE>
<S>                                                                                                             <C>
                                   ARTICLE XI

                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

 Section 11.01  Acts of Securityholders....................................................................      96
 Section 11.02  Amendment..................................................................................      96
 Section 11.03  Recordation of Agreement...................................................................      97
 Section 11.04  Duration of Agreement......................................................................      97
 Section 11.05  Governing Law..............................................................................      97
 Section 11.06  Notices....................................................................................      97
 Section 11.07  Severability of Provisions.................................................................      98
 Section 11.08  No Partnership.............................................................................      98
 Section 11.09  Counterparts...............................................................................      98
 Section 11.10  Successors and Assigns.....................................................................      98
 Section 11.11  Headings...................................................................................      99
 Section 11.12  Actions of Securityholders.................................................................      99
 Section 11.13  Non-Petition Agreement.....................................................................      99
 Section 11.14  Holders of the Certificates................................................................     100

 Section 11.15  Due Diligence Fees, Due Diligence..........................................................     100

 Section 11.16  Liability..................................................................................     101


 Section 11.17  Confidential Information...................................................................     101


 Section 11.18  Servicer to Provide Information to Loan Originator.........................................     102
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<S>            <C>
EXHIBIT A      Form of Notice of Additional Note Principal Balance

EXHIBIT B      Form of Servicer's Remittance Report to Trustee

EXHIBIT C      Form of S&SA Assignment

EXHIBIT D      Form of Reserve Account Release Instructions from Initial Noteholder

SCHEDULE A     Non-Wet Funded Loan Schedule

SCHEDULE B     Wet-Funded Loan Schedule

ANNEX 1        Representations and Warranties Regarding Loans
</TABLE>
<PAGE>   6
                  This Amended and Restated Sale and Servicing Agreement is
entered into effective as of August 31, 1999, among ADVANTA HOME EQUITY LOAN
OWNER TRUST 1998-MS1, a Delaware business trust (the "Issuer"), ADVANTA CONDUIT
RECEIVABLES INC., ("ACRI"), a Nevada corporation, as Depositor (in such
capacity, the "Depositor"), ADVANTA MORTGAGE CORP. USA, a Delaware corporation
("AMCUSA"), as Servicer (in such capacity, the "Servicer"), AMCUSA, ADVANTA
NATIONAL BANK, a national banking association ("ANB"), and ADVANTA BANK CORP., a
Utah industrial loan corporation ("ABC"), as Loan Originators (in such capacity,
each a "Loan Originator", or collectively the "Loan Originators"), BANKERS TRUST
COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA, N.A., a national banking association, as Indenture
Trustee on behalf of the Noteholders (in such capacity, the "Indenture Trustee")
and ADVANTA CORP., a Delaware corporation as Transfer Obligor (in such capacity,
the "Transfer Obligor"), amending and restating the Sale and Servicing
Agreement, dated as of September 25, 1998, among the Issuer, ADVANTA LOAN
WAREHOUSE CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation ("ALWC"), as Depositor, the
Servicer, the Loan Originators, the Indenture Trustee and ADVANTA CORP. and
AMCUSA, as Transfer Obligors (the "Original Sale and Servicing Agreement").

                  WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend and restate the
Original Sale and Servicing Agreement to provide terms and conditions for the
sale of HELOC Mortgage Loans (as defined herein);

                  WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend and restate the
Original Sale and Servicing Agreement to replace ALWC as depositor with ACRI. In
connection with such replacement, ALWC wishes to assign, transfer and set over
to ACRI all the rights, title and interest, powers, privileges and remedies of
ALWC under the Sale and Servicing Agreement, and ACRI wishes to assume all
duties, liabilities and obligations of ALWC under the Sale and Servicing
Agreement;

                  WHEREAS, upon execution of this Sale and Servicing Agreement
by the parties hereto, ALWC shall be fully released from all of its duties,
liabilities and obligations under the Original Sale and Servicing Agreement;

                  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements
herein contained, the Issuer, the Depositor, the Loan Originators, the Servicer,
Transfer Obligor and the Indenture Trustee hereby agree as follows for the
benefit of each of them and for the benefit of the holders of the Notes and the
Trust Certificates issued hereunder to amend and restate the Original Sale and
Servicing Agreement in its entirety to read as follows:

                              W I T N E S S E T H:

                  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained,
the Issuer, the Depositor, the Servicer, the Indenture Trustee, the Loan
Originators and the Transfer Obligor hereby agree as follows for the benefit of
each of them and for the benefit of the holders of Securities:




                                      -1-
<PAGE>   7
                                    ARTICLE I

                                   DEFINITIONS

                  Section 1.01 Definitions.

                  Whenever used in this Agreement, the following words and
phrases, unless the context otherwise requires, shall have the meanings
specified in this Article. Unless otherwise specified, all calculations of
interest described herein shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and the
actual number of days elapsed in each Accrual Period.

                  ABC: Advanta Bank Corp. and any successor thereto.

                  Accepted Servicing Practices: The Servicer's normal servicing
practices in servicing and administering mortgage loans for its own account,
which in general will conform to the mortgage servicing practices of prudent
mortgage lending institutions which service for their own account mortgage loans
of the same type as the Loans in the jurisdictions in which the related
Mortgaged Properties are located and will give due consideration to the
Noteholders' reliance on the Servicer.

                  Accrual Period: With respect to the Notes, the period
commencing on and including the preceding Payment Date (or, in the case of the
first Payment Date, the period commencing on and including the first Transfer
Date) and ending on the day preceding the related Payment Date.

                  Act or Securities Act: The Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

                  Additional Note Principal Balance:

                  (a) With respect to each Transfer Date, the aggregate Sales
         Prices of all Loans conveyed on such date.

                  (b) With respect to each Collateral Value Excess Date, an
         amount equal to the increase in the Note Principal Balance that the
         Issuer sells to the Initial Noteholder pursuant to the Note Purchase
         Agreement on such Collateral Value Excess Date.

                  Adequately Capitalized: Shall mean the maintenance of capital
ratios at or above the required minimum levels for such capital category under
regulations promulgated pursuant to Section 1831(o) of Title 12 of the United
States Code, as amended from time to time.

                  Administration Agreement: The Administration Agreement, dated
as of September 25, 1998, among the Issuer and Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA, as
Administrator.

                  Administrator: Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA or any successor in
interest thereto, in its capacity as Administrator under the Administration
Agreement.



                                      -2-
<PAGE>   8
                  Advance Account: The account established and maintained
pursuant to Section 5.04.

                  Affiliate: With respect to any specified Person, any
"affiliate" of such Person as such term is defined in the United States
Bankruptcy Code in effect from time to time, and the terms "controlling" and
"controlled" have corresponding meanings.

                  Agreement: This Agreement, as the same may be amended and
supplemented from time to time.

                  Allocation Percentage: With respect to ANB, ABC or the
Depositor and as of each Reallocation Date, the fraction (expressed as a
percentage) for which the numerator shall equal the aggregate Principal Balances
(as of the close of business on such date) of all Loans then held by the Issuer
which were conveyed to the Issuer by ANB, ABC or the Depositor, as applicable
and the denominator of which is the aggregate Principal Balance (as of the close
of business on such date) of all Loans then held by the Issuer.

                  ALTA: The American Land Title Association and its successors
in interest.

                  Alternate Repurchase Price: With respect to a Loan, the sum of
(i) the Collateral Value thereof as of the date of repurchase, (ii) all accrued
and unpaid interest on such Loan since the last Payment Date to, but not
including the date of repurchase, computed at the applicable Note Interest Rate,
(iii) the amount of any unreimbursed Servicing Advances made by the Servicer
(after deducting therefrom any amounts received in respect of such repurchased
Loan and being held in the Collection Account for future distribution to the
extent such amounts represent recoveries of principal not yet applied to reduce
the related Principal Balance or interest for the period from and after the date
of repurchase). The Alternate Repurchase Price shall be (i) increased by the net
negative value or (ii) decreased by the net positive value of all Hedging
Instruments terminated with respect to the repurchase of such Loan. To the
extent the Servicer does not reimburse itself for amounts, if any, in respect of
the Servicing Advance Reimbursement Amount pursuant to Section 5.01(c)(1)
hereof, with respect to such Loan, the Alternate Repurchase Price shall be
reduced by such amounts.

                  AMCUSA: Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA, and any successor thereto.

                  ANB: Advanta National Bank, and any successor thereto.

                  Appraised Value: The value of the Mortgaged Property as set
forth in an appraisal performed in connection with the origination of the
related Loan.

                  ARM: Any Loan for which the Loan Interest Rate is subject to
adjustment.

                  Assignment: A LPA Assignment or S&SA Assignment.

                  Assignment of Mortgage: With respect to any Loan, an
assignment of the related Mortgage in blank or to Bankers Trust Company of
California, N.A., as custodian or trustee under the applicable custodial
agreement or trust agreement, notice of transfer or


                                      -3-
<PAGE>   9
equivalent instrument in recordable form, sufficient under the laws of the
jurisdiction wherein the related Mortgaged Property is located to reflect the
assignment and pledge of such Mortgage.

                  Balloon Loan: Any Loan for which the related monthly payments,
other than the monthly payment due on the maturity date thereof, are computed on
the basis of a period to full amortization ending on a date that is later than
the maturity date stated in the Promissory Note.

                  Basic Documents: This Agreement, the Administration Agreement,
the Custodial Agreement, the Indenture, the Loan Purchase Agreement, the Note
Purchase Agreement, the Trust Agreement, each Hedging Instrument and, as and
when required to be executed and delivered, the Assignments.

                  Borrower: The obligor or obligors on a Promissory Note.

                  Business Day: Any day other than (i) a Saturday or Sunday, or
(ii) a day on which banking institutions in Delaware, New York City, California
or in the city in which the corporate trust office of the Indenture Trustee is
located or the city in which the Servicer's servicing operations are located are
authorized or obligated by law or executive order to be closed.

                  Certificateholder: A holder of a Trust Certificate.

                  Clean-up Call Date: The first Payment Date occurring on or
after the end of the Revolving Period on which the Note Principal Balance
declines to 10% or less of the aggregate Note Principal Balance as of the end of
the Revolving Period.

                  Closing Date: September 25, 1998, or with respect to a Series
of Notes subsequent to the Series issued on such date, as set forth in the
related Indenture Supplement.

                  Code: The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time
to time, and the regulations promulgated by the United States Treasury
thereunder.

                  Collateral Percentage: With respect to each Loan and any
Business Day, a percentage determined as follows:

                  (a)      with respect to all Loans (other than HELOC Mortgage
                           Loans, Loans that are 30 or more days Delinquent and
                           High LTV Loans), 96%;

                  (b)      with respect to all High LTV Loans, 94%;

                  (c)      with respect to all Loans (other than HELOC Mortgage
                           Loans) that are 30 or more days Delinquent, 90%;

                  (d)      with respect to all HELOC Mortgage Loans that are
                           0-29 days Delinquent, 93%;



                                      -4-
<PAGE>   10
                  (e)      with respect to all HELOC Mortgage Loans that are 30
                           to 59 days Delinquent, 85%; and

                  (f)      with respect to all HELOC Mortgage Loans that are 60
                           or more days Delinquent, 0%.

                  Collateral Value: With respect to each Loan and each Business
Day, an amount equal to (a) the lesser of (1) the Collateral Percentage of the
Market Value of such Loan, and (2) 100% of the Principal Balance of such Loan as
of the most recent Determination Date (or, for Loans sold and conveyed to the
Trust after the most recent Determination Date, the Transfer Cutoff Date
Principal Balance thereof), less (b) the aggregate unreimbursed Servicing
Advances attributable to such Loan as of the most recent Determination Date;
provided, however, that the Collateral Value shall be zero with respect to each
Loan (1) that a Loan Originator is required to repurchase pursuant to Section
2.05 or Section 3.06 hereof or (2) which is a Loan of the type specified in
subparagraphs (i)-(vii) hereof and which is in excess of the limits permitted
under subparagraphs (i)-(vii) hereof, or (3) which remains pledged to the
Indenture Trustee later than 180 days after its related Transfer Date, or (4)
which has been released from the possession of the Custodian to the Servicer or
any Loan Originator for a period in excess of 14 days; provided further however:

                  (i)      the aggregate Collateral Value of Loans (other than
                           HELOC Mortgage Loans) which are Second Lien Loans may
                           not exceed 25% of the aggregate outstanding Note
                           Principal Balance;

                  (ii)     the aggregate Collateral Value of Loans which are
                           Mixed Use Loans may not exceed 1% of the Maximum Note
                           Principal Balance;

                  (iii)    the aggregate Collateral Value of Loans which are
                           Balloon Loans may not exceed 25% of the Maximum Note
                           Principal Balance;

                  (iv)     the aggregate Collateral Value of Loans that are High
                           LTV Loans may not exceed 10% of the Maximum Note
                           Principal Balance;

                  (v)      the aggregate Collateral Value of Loans (other than
                           HELOC Mortgage Loans) which are 30 to 59 days
                           Delinquent as of the related Determination Date, may
                           not exceed 3% of the aggregate Note Principal
                           Balance, provided, however that if the aggregate
                           Collateral Value of all Loans (other than HELOC
                           Mortgage Loans) that are 30 to 59 days Delinquent as
                           of such date exceeds 3% of the aggregate Note
                           Principal Balance as of such day, each Loan (other
                           than HELOC Mortgage Loans) or portion thereof
                           included in the portion of such aggregate Collateral
                           Value in excess of such limit shall be deemed to be
                           60 to 89 days Delinquent;

                  (vi)     the aggregate Collateral Value of Loans which are not
                           HELOC Mortgage Loans which are 60 to 89 days
                           Delinquent as of the related Determination Date, may
                           not exceed 1% of the aggregate Note Principal


                                      -5-
<PAGE>   11
                           Balance, provided, however that if the aggregate
                           Collateral Value of all Loans which are not HELOC
                           Mortgage Loans that are 60 to 89 days Delinquent as
                           of such date exceed 1% of the aggregate Note
                           Principal Balance as of such day, each Loan or
                           portion thereof included in the portion of such
                           aggregate Collateral Value in excess of such limit
                           shall be deemed to be 90 or more days Delinquent;

                  (vii)    the aggregate Collateral Value of Loans which are 90
                           or more days Delinquent as of the most recent
                           Determination Date (inclusive of all Loans that are
                           deemed to be 90 or more days Delinquent pursuant to
                           clause (vi) above and each Loan which is a Foreclosed
                           Loan or which is an REO Property), may not exceed 0%;

                  (viii)   the aggregate Collateral Value of Loans which are
                           secured by a Manufactured Dwelling may not exceed 5%
                           of the Maximum Note Principal Balance;

                  (ix)     the aggregate Collateral Value of Loans which are
                           HELOC Mortgage Loans may not exceed $150,000,000;

                  (x)      the Collateral Value of each HELOC Mortgage Loan with
                           a Principal Balance as of the most recent
                           Determination Date in excess of the Credit Limit
                           shall be based on the Credit Limit; and

                  (xi)     the aggregate Collateral Value of HELOC Mortgage
                           Loans which are 30 to 59 days Delinquent as of the
                           related Determination Date may not exceed 2% of the
                           aggregate Note Principal Balance.

                  Collateral Value Excess: With respect to any Business Day, an
amount equal to the positive difference, if any, between (a) (i) the aggregate
Collateral Value of all Loans in the Loan Pool on such Business Day, or (ii) in
the event that a Performance Trigger shall have occurred and not been Deemed
Cured, the aggregate Collateral Value of all Loans in the Loan Pool on such
Business Day multiplied by 0.98 and (b) the Note Principal Balance on such
Business Day.

                  Collateral Value Excess Date: Any Business Day on which a
Collateral Value Excess exists and on which the Initial Noteholder purchases
Additional Note Principal Balance in respect thereof pursuant to Section 2.01
hereof.

                  Collection Account: The account designated as such,
established and maintained by the Servicer in accordance with Section 5.01(a)(1)
hereof.

                  Combined LTV or CLTV:

                  (i) With respect to any HELOC Mortgage Loan, as of any
Determination Date, the percentage equivalent of a fraction, the numerator of
which is the sum of (A) the Credit Limit and (B) the outstanding principal
balance as of the date of execution of the related Credit


                                      -6-
<PAGE>   12
Line Agreement of such HELOC Mortgage Loan (or as of any subsequent date, if
any, as of which such outstanding principal balance may be determined in
connection with an increase in the Credit Limit for such HELOC Mortgage Loan) of
any mortgage loan or mortgage loans that are senior in priority to the HELOC
Mortgage Loan and which is secured by the same Mortgaged Property and the
denominator of which is the lesser of (A) the Appraised Value of the related
Mortgaged Property on such date of execution of the related Credit Line
Agreement or on such subsequent date, if any, or (B) in the case of a Mortgaged
Property purchased within one year prior to such date of execution of the
related Credit Line Agreement, the purchase price thereof; and

                  (ii) with respect to any Loan that is not a HELOC Mortgage
Loan, the ratio of (a) the outstanding principal balance on the related date of
origination of (i) such Loan plus (ii) the loan constituting the first lien (if
any) to (b) (i) the Appraised Value of the related Mortgaged Property on such
date of origination or on such subsequent date, if any, or (ii) in the case of a
Mortgaged Property purchased within one year prior to such date of origination,
the purchase price thereof, expressed as a percentage.

                  Commission: The Securities and Exchange Commission.

                  Credit Limit: With respect to each HELOC Mortgage Loan, the
maximum amount permitted under the terms of the related Credit Line Agreement.

                  Credit Line Agreement: With respect to any HELOC Mortgage
Loan, the related home equity line of credit agreement and promissory note (if
any) executed by the related mortgagor and any amendment or modification
thereof.

                  Custodial Agreement: The custodial agreement dated as of
September 25, 1998, among the Issuer, the Servicer, the Indenture Trustee and
the Custodian, providing for the retention of the Custodial Loan Files by the
Custodian on behalf of the Indenture Trustee.

                  Custodial Loan File: As defined in Section 2.04.

                  Custodian: The custodian named in the Custodial Agreement,
which custodian shall not be affiliated with the Servicer, the Loan Originators,
the Depositor or any Subservicer. Bankers Trust Company of California, N.A., a
national banking association, shall be the initial Custodian pursuant to the
terms of the Custodial Agreement.

                  Custodian Fee: If applicable, the quarterly fee payable to the
Custodian, calculated and payable on every third Payment Date. The Servicer
shall pay such fee pursuant to Section 6 of the Custodial Agreement.

                  Daily Interest Accrual Amount: With respect to each day,
interest accrued at the Note Interest Rate on the Note Principal Balance as of
the preceding Business Day after giving effect to all changes to the Note
Principal Balance on or prior to such preceding Business Day.



                                      -7-
<PAGE>   13
                  Deemed Cured: When the condition that originally gave rise to
a Performance Trigger or Rapid Amortization Trigger has not continued for 20
consecutive days or has otherwise been waived with the prior written consent of
the Majority Noteholders.

                  Default: Any occurrence that is, or with notice or the lapse
of time or both would become, an Event of Default.

                  Defaulted Loan: With respect to any Determination Date, any
Loan, including, without limitation, any Liquidated Loan with respect to which
any of the following has occurred as of the end of the preceding Remittance
Period: (a) foreclosure or similar proceedings have been commenced; or (b) the
Servicer or any Subservicer has determined in good faith and in accordance with
the servicing standard set forth in Section 4.01 that such Loan is in default or
imminent default.

                  Deleted Loan: A Loan replaced or to be replaced by one or more
Qualified Substitute Loans.

                  Delinquent: A Loan is "Delinquent" if any Monthly Payment due
thereon is not made by the close of business on the day such Monthly Payment is
required to be paid. A Loan is "30 days Delinquent" if any Monthly Payment due
thereon has not been received by the opening of business on the corresponding
day of the month immediately succeeding the month in which such Monthly Payment
was required to be paid or, if there is no such corresponding day (e.g., as when
a 30-day month follows a 31-day month in which a payment was required to be paid
on the 31st day of such month), then on the last day of such immediately
succeeding month. The determination of whether a Loan is "60 days Delinquent,"
"90 days Delinquent", etc., shall be made in like manner.

                  Delivery: When used with respect to Trust Account Property
means:

                  (a) with respect to bankers' acceptances, commercial paper,
         negotiable certificates of deposit and other obligations that
         constitute "instruments" within the meaning of Section 9-105(1)(i) of
         the UCC and are susceptible of physical delivery (except with respect
         to Trust Account Property consisting of certificated securities (as
         defined in Section 8-102(a)(4) of the UCC)), physical delivery to the
         Indenture Trustee or its custodian endorsed to the Indenture Trustee or
         its custodian or endorsed in blank;

                  (b) with respect to a certificated security (i) delivery of
         such certificated security endorsed to, or registered in the name of,
         the Indenture Trustee or endorsed in blank to a securities intermediary
         (as defined in Section 8-102(a)(14) of the UCC) and the making by such
         securities intermediary of appropriate entries in its records
         identifying such certificated securities as credited to the securities
         account (as defined in Section 8-501(a) of the UCC) of the Indenture
         Trustee, or (ii) by delivery thereof to a "clearing corporation" (as
         defined in Section 8-102(5) of the UCC) and the making by such clearing
         corporation of appropriate entries in its records crediting the
         securities account of a securities intermediary by the amount of such
         certificated security and the making by such securities intermediary of
         appropriate entries in its records identifying such certificated
         securities as credited to the securities account of the Indenture
         Trustee


                                      -8-
<PAGE>   14
         (all of the Trust Account Property described in Subsections (a) and
         (b), "Physical Property");

                  and, in any event, any such Physical Property in registered
         form shall be in the name of the Indenture Trustee or its nominee or
         custodian; and such additional or alternative procedures as may
         hereafter become appropriate to effect the complete transfer of
         ownership of any such Trust Account Property (as defined herein) to the
         Indenture Trustee or its nominee or custodian, consistent with changes
         in applicable law or regulations or the interpretation thereof;

                  (c) with respect to any security issued by the U.S. Treasury,
         FNMA or FHLMC that is a book-entry security held through the Federal
         Reserve System pursuant to federal book-entry regulations, the
         following procedures, all in accordance with applicable law, including
         applicable federal regulations and Articles 8 and 9 of the UCC: the
         making by a Federal Reserve Bank of an appropriate entry crediting such
         Trust Account property to an account of a securities intermediary that
         is also a "participant" pursuant to applicable federal regulations; the
         making by such securities intermediary of appropriate entries in its
         records crediting such book-entry security held through the Federal
         Reserve System pursuant to federal book-entry regulations and Articles
         8 and 9 of the UCC to the securities account of the Indenture Trustee;
         and such additional or alternative procedures as may hereafter become
         appropriate to effect complete transfer of ownership of any such Trust
         Account Property to the Indenture Trustee or its nominee or custodian,
         consistent with changes in applicable law or regulations or the
         interpretation thereof; and

                  (d) with respect to any item of Trust Account Property that is
         an uncertificated security (as defined in Section 8-102(a)(18) of the
         UCC) and that is not governed by clause (c) above, registration in the
         records of the Issuer thereof in the name of the securities
         intermediary, and the making by such securities intermediary of
         appropriate entries in its records crediting such uncertificated
         certificates to the Indenture Trustee.

                  Denomination: With respect to a Note, the portion of the Note
Principal Balance represented by such Note as specified therein.

                  Depositor: Advanta Conduit Receivables Inc., a Nevada
corporation, and any successors thereto.

                  Determination Date: With respect to any Payment Date occurring
on the 25th day of a month, the third Business Day immediately preceding such
Payment Date, and with respect to any other Payment Date, as mutually agreed by
the Servicer and the Noteholders.

                  Disposition: A Securitization, Whole Loan Sale transaction, or
other disposition of Loans, in each case by the Issuer.

                  Disposition Agent: Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and its
successors and assigns acting at the direction of the Majority Noteholders or
such other Person designated by


                                      -9-
<PAGE>   15
the Issuer with the consent of the Majority Noteholders; provided that with
respect to any Disposition in connection with an Event of Default, or during a
Termination Period, the Disposition Agent shall be Morgan Stanley & Co.
Incorporated.

                  Disposition Participant: With respect to a Disposition, any
"depositor" with respect to a Securitization, the Disposition Agent, the
Majority Noteholders, the Servicer, the related trustee and the related
custodian, any nationally recognized credit rating agency, the related
underwriters, the related placement agent, the related credit enhancer, the
related whole-loan purchaser, the related purchaser of securities and/or any
other party necessary or, in the good faith belief of any of the foregoing,
desirable to effect a Disposition.

                  Disposition Proceeds: With respect to a Disposition, (x) the
proceeds of the Disposition remitted to the Trust in respect of the Loans
transferred on the date of and with respect to such Disposition, including
without limitation, any cash and Retained Securities created in any related
Securitization less all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with
such Disposition, including, without limitation, all amounts deposited into any
reserve funds upon the closing thereof plus or minus (y) the net positive or net
negative value of all Hedging Instruments terminated in connection with such
Disposition minus (z) all other amounts agreed upon in writing by the Initial
Noteholder, the Trust and the Servicer.

                  Distribution Account: The account established and maintained
pursuant to Section 5.01(a)(2) hereof.

                  Draw: With respect to any HELOC Mortgage Loan, an additional
borrowing by the Borrower under the terms of the related Credit Line Agreement
subsequent to each Transfer Cutoff Date in accordance with the related Credit
Line Agreement.

                  Draw Period: With respect to any HELOC Mortgage Loan, the
period of time during which the Borrower under the related Credit Line Agreement
may make a Draw under the related Credit Line Agreement; such period not to
exceed three to five years (as applicable), unless extended at the option of the
related Loan Originator pursuant to the terms of the related Credit Line
Agreement (provided that such extension shall be in accordance with the
provisions set forth herein with respect to Loan modifications).

                  Draw Reimbursement Rights: As to each HELOC Mortgage Loan, the
right to be reimbursed for the making of Draws on behalf of the Issuer in the
case of ANB, ABC and the Depositor, and on behalf of the Depositor, in the case
of AMCUSA, which shall equal an amount equal to the principal for the aggregate
Draws thereunder, which rights shall automatically be conveyed to the Issuer
pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (and in the case of AMCUSA, to the
Depositor pursuant to the terms of the Loan Purchase Agreement) under which the
related HELOC Mortgage Loans were conveyed.

                  Due Date: The day of the month on which the Monthly Payment is
due from the Borrower with respect to a Loan.

                  Due Diligence Fees: Shall have the meaning provided in Section
11.15 hereof.



                                      -10-
<PAGE>   16
                  Eligible Account: At any time, an account which is maintained
with an institution whose deposits are insured by the Bank Insurance Fund or the
Savings Association Insurance Fund of the FDIC, the long-term deposits of which
shall be rated A2 or better by Moody's or A or better by S&P and the short-term
deposits of which shall be rated P-1 or better by Moody's and A-1 or better by
S&P and which is any of the following: (i) a federal savings and loan
association duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the
federal banking laws; (ii) an institution duly organized, validly existing and
in good standing under the applicable banking laws of any state; (iii) a
national banking association duly organized, validly existing and in good
standing under the federal banking laws; (iv) a principal subsidiary of a bank
holding company; or (v) approved in writing by the Majority Noteholders;
provided, however, that any such institution or association shall have combined
capital, surplus and undivided profits of at least $50,000,000.

                  Eligible Servicer: (x) AMCUSA, ANB, ABC or (y) any other
Person that (a) (i) has been designated as an approved seller-servicer by FNMA
or FHLMC for first and second mortgage loans and (ii) has equity of not less
than $15,000,000, as determined in accordance with GAAP or (b) any other Person
to which the Majority Noteholders may consent in writing.

                  Escrow Payments: With respect to any Loan, the amounts
constituting ground rents, taxes, assessments, water rates, sewer rents,
municipal charges, fire, hazard, liability and other insurance premiums,
condominium charges, and any other payments required to be escrowed by the
related Borrower with the related servicer pursuant to the Mortgage or any other
document.

                  Event of Default: Either a Servicer Event of Default or an
Event of Default under the Indenture.

                  Exchange Act: The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

                  FDIC: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and any
successor thereto.

                  FHLMC: The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and any
successor thereto.

                  Fidelity Bond: As described in Section 4.22 hereof.

                  Final Put Date: As defined in Section 10.05 of the Indenture.

                  First Lien Loan: A Loan secured by the lien on the related
Mortgaged Property, subject to no prior liens on such Mortgaged Property at the
time of origination or the date of execution of the Credit Line Agreement, as
applicable.

                  FNMA: The Federal National Mortgage Association and any
successor thereto.

                  Foreclosed Loan: As of any Determination Date, any Loan that
as of the end of the preceding Remittance Period has been discharged as a result
of (i) the completion of


                                      -11-
<PAGE>   17
foreclosure or comparable proceedings by the Servicer, on behalf of the Issuer;
(ii) the acceptance of the deed or other evidence of title to the related
Mortgaged Property in lieu of foreclosure or other comparable proceeding; or
(iii) the acquisition of title to the related Mortgaged Property by operation of
law.

                  Foreclosure Property: Any real property securing a Foreclosed
Loan that has been acquired by the Servicer on behalf of the Issuer through
foreclosure, deed in lieu of foreclosure or similar proceedings in respect of
the related Loan.

                  GAAP: Generally Accepted Accounting Principles as in effect in
the United States.

                  Gross Margin: With respect to each ARM and HELOC Mortgage
Loan, the fixed percentage amount set forth in the related Promissory Note.

                  Hedge Funding Requirement: With respect to any day, all
amounts required to be paid or delivered by the Issuer under any Hedging
Instrument, whether in respect of payments thereunder or in order to meet
margin, collateral or other requirements thereof. Such amounts shall be
calculated by the Market Value Agent and communicated in writing to the
Indenture Trustee.

                  Hedge Value: With respect to any Business Day and a specific
Hedging Instrument, the positive amount, if any, that is equal to the amount
that would be paid to the Issuer in consideration of an agreement between the
Issuer and an unaffiliated third party, that would have the effect of preserving
for the Issuer the net economic equivalent, as of such Business Day, of all
payment and delivery requirements payable to and by the Issuer under such
Hedging Instrument until the termination thereof, as determined by the Market
Value Agent in accordance with Section 6.03 hereof.

                  Hedging Counterparty: A Person (i) (A) the long-term and
commercial paper or short-term deposit ratings of which are acceptable to the
Majority Noteholders and (B) which shall agree in writing that, in the event
that any of its long-term or commercial paper or short-term deposit ratings
cease to be at or above the levels deemed acceptable by the Majority
Noteholders, it shall secure its obligations in accordance with the reasonable
request of the Majority Noteholders, (ii) that has entered into a Hedging
Instrument and (iii) that is acceptable to the Majority Noteholders, which
acceptance shall not be unreasonably withheld.

                  Hedging Instrument: Any interest rate cap agreement, interest
rate floor agreement, interest rate swap agreement or other interest rate
hedging agreement entered into by the Issuer with a Hedging Counterparty, and
which requires the Hedging Counterparty to deposit all amounts payable thereby
directly to the Collection Account. Each Hedging Instrument shall meet the
requirements set forth in Article VII hereof with respect thereto.

                  HELOC Mortgage Loan: A Loan which is an adjustable-rate home
equity revolving line of credit secured by a first or second mortgage, deed of
trust or other instrument creating a lien on the related Mortgaged Property,
which lien secures the related Promissory Note.



                                      -12-
<PAGE>   18
                  High LTV Loans: First and second lien Loans other than HELOC
Mortgage Loans with an LTV greater than 90% and less than or equal to 100%.

                  Indenture: The Indenture dated as of September 25, 1998,
together with the Indenture Supplement, between the Issuer and the Indenture
Trustee, and all amendments or supplements thereto.

                  Indenture Supplement: With respect to a Series of Notes, the
Indenture Supplement pursuant to which such Series of Notes was issued.

                  Indenture Trustee: Bankers Trust Company of California, N.A.,
a national banking association, as Indenture Trustee under the Indenture, or any
successor indenture trustee under the Indenture.

                  Indenture Trustee Fee: As to any Payment Date, the amount
payable to the Indenture Trustee equal to an amount as separately agreed in
writing by the Indenture Trustee and the Servicer and with the approval of the
Majority Noteholders, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.

                  Independent: When used with respect to any specified Person,
such Person (i) is in fact independent of the Loan Originators, the Transfer
Obligor, the Servicer, the Depositor or any of their respective Affiliates, (ii)
does not have any direct financial interest in, or any material indirect
financial interest in, any of the Loan Originators, the Transfer Obligor, the
Servicer, the Depositor or any of their respective Affiliates and (iii) is not
connected with any of the Loan Originators, the Transfer Obligor, the Depositor,
the Servicer or any of their respective Affiliates, as an officer, employee,
promoter, underwriter, trustee, partner, director or Person performing similar
functions; provided, however, that a Person shall not fail to be Independent of
the Loan Originators, the Transfer Obligor, the Depositor, the Servicer or any
of their respective Affiliates merely because such Person is the beneficial
owner of 1% or less of any class of securities issued by the Loan Originators,
the Transfer Obligor, the Depositor, the Servicer or any of their respective
Affiliates, as the case may be.

                  Independent Accountants: A firm of nationally recognized
certified public accountants which is Independent.

                  Index: With respect to each ARM and HELOC Mortgage Loan, the
index set forth in the related Promissory Note for the purpose of calculating
the Loan Interest Rate thereon.

                  Initial Noteholder: MSSFI.

                  Interest Carry-Forward Amount: With respect to any Payment
Date, the excess, if any, of (A) the Interest Payment Amount for such Payment
Date plus the Interest Carry-Forward Amount for the prior Payment Date over (B)
the amount in respect of interest that is actually paid from the Distribution
Account on such Payment Date in respect of the interest for such Payment Date.



                                      -13-
<PAGE>   19
                  Interest Payment Amount: With respect to any Payment Date, the
sum of the Daily Interest Accrual Amounts for all days in the related Accrual
Period.

                  LIBOR: With respect to each day, the rate for United States
dollar deposits for one month that appears on the Telerate Screen Page 3750 as
of 11:00 a.m., London time, on the related LIBOR Determination Date. If such
rate does not appear on such page (or such other page as may replace that page
on that service, or if such service is no longer offered, such other service for
displaying LIBOR or comparable rates as may be reasonably selected by the
Initial Noteholder with the consent of the Issuer, such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld), LIBOR for the applicable day will be the Reference Bank
Rate. If no such rates can be obtained by the Initial Noteholder and no
Reference Bank Rate is available, LIBOR will be LIBOR applicable to the first
preceding day on which LIBOR has been determined in accordance with this
definition.

                  LIBOR Business Day: Any day on which banks are open for
dealing in foreign currency and exchange in London.

                  LIBOR Determination Date: With respect to each day that is a
LIBOR Business Day, such LIBOR Business Day, and with respect to any day that is
not a LIBOR Business Day, the LIBOR Business Day preceding such day.

                  LIBOR Margin: With respect to each day, the percentage equal
to the weighted average of the Non HELOC Rate and the HELOC Rate (each as
defined below) based on the relative aggregate Principal Balance of the Loans
which are not HELOC Mortgage Loans and the aggregate Principal Balance of the
HELOC Mortgage Loans, respectively, each as of such day.

                                 NON HELOC RATE

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Unfunded Transfer Obligation                         LIBOR Margin:
Percentage:
<S>                                                  <C>
>= 8.00%                                             0.75%, provided that when the aggregate
                                                     Principal Balance of all Loans and mortgage
                                                     loans pledged under the Warehouse Lines is
                                                     greater than $250,000,000 as of such date, 0.65%

>=5.00%, but <8.00%                                  1.25%

<5.00%                                               2.25%
</TABLE>

provided that the Non HELOC Rate shall be equal to 2.25% upon the occurrence of
an Event of Default or for the period commencing the day following the Clean-up
Call Date.

                                   HELOC RATE



                                      -14-
<PAGE>   20
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Unfunded Transfer Obligation                          LIBOR Margin:
Percentage:
<S>                                                   <C>
>= 8.00%                                              0.95%, provided that when the aggregate
                                                      Principal Balance of all Loans and mortgage
                                                      loans pledged under the Warehouse Lines is
                                                      greater than $250,000,000 as of such date, 0.85%

>=5.00%, but <8.00%                                   1.45%

<5.00%                                                2.45%
</TABLE>

provided that the HELOC Rate shall be equal to 2.45% upon the occurrence of an
Event of Default or for the period commencing the day following the Clean-up
Call Date.

                  Lien: With respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, lien,
pledge, charge, security interest, hypothecation, option or encumbrance of any
kind in respect of such asset or (b) the interest of a vendor or lessor under
any conditional sale agreement, financing lease or other title retention
agreement relating to such asset.

                  Lifetime Cap: The provision in the Promissory Note for each
ARM or HELOC Mortgage Loan which limits the maximum Loan Interest Rate over the
life of such ARM or HELOC Mortgage Loan.

                  Liquidated Loan: As defined in Section 4.12(b).

                  Liquidated Loan Losses: With respect to any Determination
Date, the difference between (i) the aggregate Principal Balances as of such
date of all Loans that became Liquidated Loans and (ii) all Liquidation Proceeds
allocable to principal received on or prior to such date.

                  Liquidation Proceeds: With respect to a Liquidated Loan, any
cash amounts received in connection with the liquidation of such Liquidated
Loan, whether through trustee's sale, foreclosure sale or other disposition, any
cash amounts received in connection with the management of the Mortgaged
Property from Defaulted Loans and any other amounts required to be deposited in
the Collection Account pursuant to Section 5.01(b)(1) hereof, in each case other
than Mortgage Insurance Proceeds and Released Mortgaged Property Proceeds.

                  Loan: Any loan, including a HELOC Mortgage Loan, sold to the
Trust hereunder and pledged to the Indenture Trustee, which loan includes,
without limitation, (i) a Promissory Note and the related Mortgage and (ii) all
right, title and interest of the related Loan Originator in and to the Mortgaged
Property covered by such Mortgage. The term Loan shall be deemed to include the
related Promissory Note, related Mortgage and related Foreclosure Property, if
any.



                                      -15-
<PAGE>   21
                  Loan Documents: With respect to a Loan, the documents
comprising the Custodial Loan File for such Loan.

                  Loan File: With respect to each Loan, the Custodial Loan File
and the Servicer's Loan File.

                  Loan Interest Rate: With respect to each Loan, the annual rate
of interest borne by the related Promissory Note, as shown on the Loan Schedule,
and, in the case of an ARM or HELOC Mortgage Loan, as the same may be
periodically adjusted in accordance with the terms of such Promissory Note.

                  Loan Originator: Each of ANB, AMCUSA and ABC. "Loan
Originators" shall mean all such entities, collectively, and any successors
thereto. In the case of AMCUSA, its subsidiary, Advanta Finance Corp., may
transfer Loans originated by Advanta Finance Corp. to AMCUSA, which Loans shall
be transferred by AMCUSA to the Depositor and in turn to the Issuer. AMCUSA
shall be the Loan Originator for all such Loans.

                  Loan Originator Put: The mandatory repurchase by a Loan
Originator, at the option of the Majority Noteholders, of a Loan pursuant to
Section 3.08(a) hereof.

                  Loan Pool: As of any date of determination, the pool of all
Loans conveyed to the Issuer pursuant to this Agreement on all Transfer Dates up
to and including such date of determination, which Loans have not been released
from the Lien of the Indenture pursuant to the terms of the Basic Documents,
together with the rights and obligations of a holder thereof, and the payments
thereon and proceeds therefrom received after the applicable Transfer Cutoff
Date (other than interest thereon accrued prior to such Transfer Cutoff Date),
as identified from time to time on the Loan Schedule.

                  Loan Purchase Agreement: The Loan Purchase Agreement, among
AMCUSA, as seller and the Depositor, as purchaser, dated as of September 25,
1998, and all amendments and supplements thereto.

                  Loan Schedule: The schedule of Loans conveyed to the Issuer
and delivered to the Initial Noteholder and the Indenture Trustee in the form of
a computer-readable transmission specifying the following information (a) with
respect to each non-Wet Funded Loan conveyed on such date: (i) the Loan
identifying number, (ii) the Borrower's name, (iii) the street address, city,
state and zip code of the related Mortgaged Property, (iv) the original
Principal Balance (v) the Transfer Cutoff Date Principal Balance, (vi) the Loan
Interest Rate as of the Transfer Cutoff Date, (vii) whether such Loan has a
fixed Loan Interest Rate, or, if such Loan is an ARM or HELOC Mortgage Loan, the
Index thereof, the Gross Margin thereof, the Lifetime Cap, and the adjustment
date of the Loan; (viii) the maturity date, (ix) the Lien Position of such Loan
(i.e., whether such Loan is a First Lien Loan or a Second Lien Loan), (x) the
next Due Date, (xi) whether such Loan is a Balloon Loan, (xii) whether such Loan
is a Mixed Use Loan, (xiii) whether or not the loan has been assumed pursuant to
an assumption agreement, (xiv) the related Loan Originator, (xv) whether there
is any written instrument that modifies the Promissory Note or Mortgage, (xvi)
such other information as may be reasonably requested by the Majority
Noteholders and the Indenture Trustee, and (xvii) that such Loan is


                                      -16-
<PAGE>   22
not a Wet Funded Loan, (xviii) a code indicating whether such Loan was
previously a Wet Funded Loan, (xix) the applicable Servicing Fee Rate, (xx) the
Wet Custodial File Delivery Date, (xxi) whether the Loan is a HELOC Mortgage
Loan; (b) with respect to each Wet Funded Loan conveyed on such date: (i) the
temporary Loan identifying number or the Borrower's name, (ii) the original
Principal Balance, and (iii) a code indicating that such Loan is a Wet Funded
Loan, and the Wet Custodial File Delivery Date; and (c) with respect to HELOC
Mortgage Loans, the Credit Limit under the related Credit Line Agreement.

                  Loan Schedule and Exceptions Report: The meaning set forth in
the Custodial Agreement.

                  Loan-to-Value Ratio or LTV: With respect to any Loan, the
ratio of the original outstanding principal amount of the Loan to the lesser of
(a) the Appraised Value of the Mortgaged Property at origination or (b) if the
Mortgaged Property was purchased within 12 months of the origination of the
Loan, the purchase price of the Mortgaged Property.

                  LPA Assignment: The Assignment of Loans from AMCUSA to the
Depositor under the Loan Purchase Agreement.

                  Majority Certificateholders: Has the meaning set forth in the
Trust Agreement.

                  Majority Noteholders: The holder or holders of in excess of
50% of the Note Principal Balance. In the event of the release of the Lien of
the Indenture in accordance with the terms thereof, the Majority Noteholders
shall mean the Majority Certificateholders.

                  Manufactured Dwelling: Shall mean a fully attached
manufactured home which is considered and treated as "real estate" under
applicable state law.

                  Market Value: The market value of such Loan as of any Business
Day as determined by the Market Value Agent in accordance with Section 6.03
hereof.

                  Market Value Agent: Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and its
successors in interest.

                  Maturity Date: With respect to the Notes of a given Series,
the date set forth in the related Indenture Supplement or such later date as may
be agreed in writing by the Majority Noteholders.

                  Maximum Note Principal Balance: For any Series of Notes, as
set forth in the related Indenture Supplement, less the aggregate principal
balance of the loans outstanding under the Warehouse Lines.

                  Mixed Use Loan: A Loan secured by a Mortgaged Property that is
used primarily for residential purposes, but which is also used for
non-residential purposes.



                                      -17-
<PAGE>   23
                  Monthly Payment: The scheduled monthly payment of principal
and/or interest required to be made by a Borrower on the related Loan, as set
forth in the related Promissory Note.

                  Monthly Remittance Amount: With respect to each Remittance
Period, the sum, without duplication, of (i) the aggregate interest portions of
the payments collected on the Loans during the immediately preceding Remittance
Period, (ii) the aggregate principal payments on the Loans collected by the
Servicer during the immediately preceding Remittance Period, (iii) the aggregate
of amounts deposited into the Collection Account pursuant to Section
5.01(b)(1)(ii) through 5.01(b)(1)(vi) and Section 5.01(b)(1)(viii) during the
immediately preceding Remittance Period and (iv) any Termination Price, cash
Disposition Proceeds and payments by Hedging Counterparties received on or prior
to the related Determination Date.

                  Moody's: Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or any successor
thereto.

                  Mortgage: With respect to any Loan, the mortgage, deed of
trust or other instrument securing the related Promissory Note, which creates a
first or second lien on the fee in real property and/or a first or second lien
on the leasehold estate in real property securing the Promissory Note and the
assignment of rents and leases related thereto.

                  Mortgage Insurance Policies: With respect to any Mortgaged
Property or Loan, the insurance policies required pursuant to Section 4.10.

                  Mortgage Insurance Proceeds: With respect to any Mortgaged
Property, all amounts collected in respect of Mortgage Insurance Policies and
not required either pursuant to applicable law or the related Loan Documents to
be applied to the restoration of the related Mortgaged Property or paid to the
related Borrower.

                  Mortgaged Property: With respect to a Loan, the related
Borrower's fee and/or leasehold interest in the real property (and/or all
improvements, buildings, fixtures, building equipment and personal property
thereon (to the extent applicable) and all additions, alterations and
replacements made at any time with respect to the foregoing) and all other
collateral securing repayment of the debt evidenced by the related Promissory
Note.

                  MSSFI: Morgan Stanley Securitization Funding Inc.

                  Net Liquidation Proceeds: With respect to any Payment Date,
Liquidation Proceeds received during the prior Remittance Period, net of any
reimbursements to the Servicer made from such amounts for any unreimbursed
Servicing Compensation, Servicing Advances (including Nonrecoverable Servicing
Advances) made and any other fees and expenses paid in connection with the
foreclosure, conservation and liquidation of the related Liquidated Loans or
Foreclosure Properties pursuant to Section 4.12 hereof.

                  Net Loan Losses: With respect to any Defaulted Loan that is
subject to a modification pursuant to Section 4.02 hereof, an amount equal to
the portion of the Principal Balance, if any, released in connection with such
modification.



                                      -18-
<PAGE>   24
                  Nonrecoverable Servicing Advance: With respect to any Loan or
any Foreclosure Property, (a) any Servicing Advance (including Preservation
Expenses) previously made and not reimbursed from collections, Liquidation
Proceeds, Mortgage Insurance Proceeds or the Released Mortgaged Property
Proceeds or (b) a Servicing Advance proposed to be made in respect of a Loan or
Foreclosure Property either of which, in the good faith business judgment of the
Servicer, as evidenced by certificate of a Servicing Officer delivered to the
Initial Noteholder, would not be ultimately recoverable.

                  Note: The meaning assigned thereto in the Indenture.

                  Noteholder: The meaning assigned thereto in the Indenture.

                  Note Interest Rate: Interest will accrue on the Notes on each
day at a per annum interest rate equal to LIBOR as of the related LIBOR
Determination Date plus the LIBOR Margin for such day.

                  Note Principal Balance: With respect to the Notes, as of any
date of determination (a) the sum of the Additional Note Principal Balances of
all Notes purchased on or prior to such date pursuant to the Note Purchase
Agreement less (b) all amounts previously distributed in respect of principal of
the Notes on or prior to such day.

                  Note Purchase Agreement: The Note Purchase Agreement among
MSSFI, the Issuer and the Depositor, dated as of September 25, 1998, as amended.

                  Note Redemption Amount: As of any Determination Date, an
amount without duplication equal to the sum of (i) then outstanding Note
Principal Balance plus all accrued and unpaid interest thereon as of the related
Payment Date, (ii) any Trust Fees and Expenses due and unpaid on the related
Payment Date, (iii) any Servicing Advance Reimbursement Amount as of such
Determination Date, and (iv) all amounts due to Hedging Counterparties in
respect of the termination of all related Hedging Instruments.

                  Officer's Certificate: A certificate signed by a Responsible
Officer of the Depositor, ANB, ABC, the Servicer or the Issuer, in each case, as
required by this Agreement.

                  Opinion of Counsel: A written opinion of counsel who may be
employed by the Servicer, the Depositor, ANB, ABC or any of their respective
Affiliates.

                  Overcollateralization Shortfall: With respect to any Payment
Date, an amount equal to the positive difference, if any, between (a) the Note
Principal Balance on such Payment Date and (b) (i) the aggregate Collateral
Value of all Loans in the Loan Pool as of the last day of the related Remittance
Period, or (ii) in the event that a Performance Trigger shall have occurred and
not been Deemed Cured, the aggregate Collateral Value of all Loans in the Loan
Pool as of the last day of the related Remittance Period multiplied by 0.98;
provided, however, that, in either case, on (A) the Maturity Date, (B) the
occurrence of a Rapid Amortization Trigger, (C) the Payment Date on which the
Trust is to be terminated pursuant to Section 10.02 hereof, the
Overcollateralization Shortfall shall be equal to the Note Principal


                                      -19-
<PAGE>   25
Balance. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in no event shall the
Overcollateralization Shortfall exceed the Note Principal Balance as of such
date. With the written consent of the Majority Noteholders in their sole
discretion, if as of such Payment Date, no Rapid Amortization Trigger or Default
under this Agreement or the Indenture shall be in effect, the
Overcollateralization Shortfall shall be reduced (but in no event to an amount
below zero) by all or any portion of the aggregate Hedge Value as of such
Payment Date as the Majority Noteholders may, in their sole discretion,
designate in writing.

                  Owner Trustee: means Wilmington Trust Company, a Delaware
banking corporation, not in its individual capacity but solely as Owner Trustee
under this Agreement, and any successor owner trustee under the Trust Agreement.

                  Owner Trustee Fee: The annual fee of $2,500.00 payable in
equal monthly installments to the Servicer pursuant to Section 5.01(c)(3)(i)
which shall in turn pay, in one lump sum, such $2,500.00 to the Owner Trustee on
the Scheduled Payment Date occurring in September each year during the term of
this Agreement, commencing in September, 1999.

                  Payment Date: The 25th day of each calendar month commencing
on the first such 25th day to occur after the first Transfer Date, or if any
such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day immediately following
such day, and any day a Loan is sold pursuant to the terms hereof. From time to
time, the Majority Noteholders and the Issuer may agree, upon written notice to
the Owner Trustee and the Indenture Trustee, to additional Payment Dates in
accordance with Section 5.01(c)(4).

                  Payment Statement: As defined in Section 6.01(b) hereof.

                  Percentage Interest: As defined in the Trust Agreement.

                  Performance Trigger: As of any Determination Date, a
Performance Trigger shall mean the existence of one or more of the following
conditions:

                  (i)      the aggregate Principal Balance of all Loans that are
                           30 to 59 days Delinquent as of such Determination
                           Date divided by the Pool Principal Balance is greater
                           than 5% provided, however, that a Performance Trigger
                           shall not occur if such percentage is reduced to less
                           than 3% within 15 Business Days of such Determination
                           Date as the result of the exercise of a Servicer
                           Call;

                  (ii)     the aggregate Principal Balance of all Loans that are
                           60 to 89 days Delinquent as of such Determination
                           Date divided by the Pool Principal Balance is greater
                           than 2%; provided, however, that a Performance
                           Trigger shall not occur if such percentage is reduced
                           to less than 1% within 15 Business Days of such
                           Determination Date as the result of the exercise of a
                           Servicer Call;



                                      -20-
<PAGE>   26
                  (iii)    the aggregate Liquidated Loan Losses for the previous
                           three calendar month period divided by the average
                           Pool Principal Balance during such three calendar
                           month period is greater than 0.10%; and

                  A Performance Trigger shall continue to exist until Deemed
Cured.

                  Permitted Investments: Each of the following:

                  (a) Direct general obligations of the United States or the
         obligations of any agency or instrumentality of the United States fully
         and unconditionally guaranteed, the timely payment or the guarantee of
         which constitutes a full faith and credit obligation of the United
         States.

                  (b) Federal Housing Administration debentures and rated Aa2 or
         higher by Moody's and AA or better by S&P.

                  (c) FHLMC senior debt obligations and rated Aa2 or higher by
         Moody's and AA or better by S&P.

                  (d) Federal Home Loan Banks' consolidated senior debt
         obligations and rated Aa2 or higher by Moody's and AA or better by S&P.

                  (e) FNMA senior debt obligations and rated Aa2 or higher by
         Moody's.

                  (f) Federal funds, certificates of deposit, time and demand
         deposits, and bankers' acceptances (having original maturities of not
         more than 365 days) of any domestic bank, the short-term debt
         obligations of which have been rated A-1 or better by S&P and P-1 by
         Moody's.

                  (g) Investment agreements approved by the Majority
         Noteholders, provided:

                           1. The agreement is with a bank or insurance company
                  which has an unsecured, uninsured and unguaranteed obligation
                  (or claims-paying ability) rated Aa2 or better by Moody's and
                  AA or better by S&P, and

                           2. Monies invested thereunder may be withdrawn
                  without any penalty, premium or charge upon not more than one
                  day's notice (provided such notice may be amended or canceled
                  at any time prior to the withdrawal date), and

                           3. The agreement is not subordinated to any other
                  obligations of such insurance company or bank, and

                           4. The same guaranteed interest rate will be paid on
                  any future deposits made pursuant to such agreement, and



                                      -21-
<PAGE>   27
                           5. The Indenture Trustee and the Majority Noteholders
                  receive an opinion of counsel that such agreement is an
                  enforceable obligation of such insurance company or bank.

                  (h) Commercial paper (having original maturities of not more
         than 365 days) rated A-1 or better by S&P and P-1 or better by Moody's.

                  (i) Investments in money market funds rated AAAm or AAAM-G by
         S&P and Aaa or P-1 by Moody's.

                  (j) Investments approved in writing by the Majority
         Noteholders.

provided that no instrument described above is permitted to evidence either the
right to receive (a) only interest with respect to obligations underlying such
instrument or (b) both principal and interest payments derived from obligations
underlying such instrument and the interest and principal payments with respect
to such instrument provided a yield to maturity at par greater than 120% of the
yield to maturity at par of the underlying obligations; and provided, further,
that no instrument described above may be purchased at a price greater than par
if such instrument may be prepaid or called at a price less than its purchase
price prior to stated maturity.

                  Person: Any individual, corporation, partnership, joint
venture, limited liability company, association, joint-stock company, trust,
national banking association, unincorporated organization or government or any
agency or political subdivision thereof.

                  Physical Property: As defined in clause (b) of the definition
of "Delivery" above.

                  PMI Policy or Primary Insurance Policy: A policy of primary
mortgage guaranty insurance issued by a Qualified Insurer.

                  Pool Principal Balance: With respect to any Determination
Date, the aggregate Principal Balances of the Loans as of the end of the
preceding Remittance Period.

                  Premium: Any amount paid by a Loan Originator to a third party
seller of a Loan in excess of the par value of the Loan.

                  Premium Recapture: Any portion of a Premium that a Loan
Originator receives back from a third party seller of a Loan.

                  Prepaid Installment: With respect to any Loan, any payment
thereon received prior to the scheduled Due Date for such installment, intended
by the Borrower as an early payment thereof and not as a Prepayment with respect
to such Loan.

                  Prepayment: Any payment of principal of a Loan which is
received by the Servicer in advance of the scheduled due date for the payment of
such principal (other than the principal portion of any Prepaid Installment),
and the proceeds of any Mortgage Insurance


                                      -22-
<PAGE>   28
Policy which are to be applied as a payment of principal on the related Loan
shall be deemed to be Prepayments for all purposes of this Agreement.

                  Preservation Expenses: Expenditures made by the Servicer in
connection with a foreclosed Loan prior to the liquidation thereof, including,
without limitation, expenditures for real estate property taxes, hazard
insurance premiums, property restoration or preservation.

                  Principal Balance: With respect to any Loan or related
Foreclosure Property, (i) at the Transfer Cutoff Date, the Transfer Cutoff Date
Principal Balance and (ii) with respect to any other Determination Date, the
outstanding unpaid principal balance of the Loan as of the end of the preceding
Remittance Period (after giving effect to (1) the allocation of any Net Loan
Losses with respect thereto for a Defaulted Loan, (2) Draws and (3) all payments
received thereon prior to such day); provided, however, that any Liquidated Loan
shall be deemed to have a Principal Balance of zero. With respect to HELOC
Mortgage Loans, the Principal Balance as of any date shall take into account all
Draws on or prior to such date.

                  Proceeding: Means any suit in equity, action at law or other
judicial or administrative proceeding.

                  Promissory Note: With respect to a Loan, the original executed
promissory note, Credit Line Agreement or other evidence of the indebtedness of
the related Borrower or Borrowers.

                  Put/Call Loan: Any (i) Loan that has become 30 or more days
Delinquent, (ii) Defaulted Loan, (iii) Loan that has been in default for a
period of 30 days or more (other than a Loan referred to in clause (i) hereof),
(iv) Loan that does not meet criteria established by independent rating agencies
or surety agency conditions for Dispositions which criteria have been
established at the related Transfer Date and may be modified only to match
changed criteria of independent rating agencies or surety agents, or (v) Loan
that is inconsistent with the intended tax status of the Securitization.

                  Put Date: The date on which the Notes are to be purchased by
the Issuer as a result of the exercise of the Put Option.

                  Put Option: The right of the Majority Noteholders to require
the Issuer to repurchase the Notes in accordance with Section 10.04 of the
Indenture.

                  Qualified Insurer: An insurance company duly qualified as such
under the laws of the states in which the Mortgaged Property is located, duly
authorized and licensed in such states to transact the applicable insurance
business and to write the insurance provided.

                  Qualified Substitute Loan: A Loan or Loans substituted for a
Deleted Loan pursuant to Section 3.06 hereof, which (i) has or have been
approved in writing by the Majority Noteholders and (ii) complies or comply as
of the date of substitution with each representation and warranty set forth in
Section 3.05 hereof and is or are not 30 or more days Delinquent as of the date
of substitution for such Deleted Loan or Loans.



                                      -23-
<PAGE>   29
                  Rapid Amortization Trigger: As of any Determination Date, a
Rapid Amortization Trigger shall mean the existence of one or more of the
following conditions:

                  (i)      the aggregate Principal Balance of all Loans that are
                           30 to 59 days Delinquent as of such Determination
                           Date divided by the Pool Principal Balance is greater
                           than 6%; provided, however, that a Rapid Amortization
                           Trigger shall not occur if such percentage is reduced
                           to less than 3% within 15 Business Days of such
                           Determination Date as the result of the exercise of a
                           Servicer Call;

                  (ii)     the aggregate Principal Balance of all Loans that are
                           60 to 89 days Delinquent as of such Determination
                           Date divided by the Pool Principal Balance is greater
                           than 3%; provided, however, that a Rapid Amortization
                           Trigger shall not occur if such percentage is reduced
                           to less than 1% within 15 Business Days of such
                           Determination Date as the result of the exercise of a
                           Servicer Call;

                  (iii)    (x) the aggregate Liquidated Loan Losses for the
                           previous three calendar month period divided by the
                           average Pool Principal Balance during such three
                           calendar month period is greater than 0.25%;

                  A Rapid Amortization Trigger shall continue to exist until it
is Deemed Cured.

                  Rate Change Date: The date on which the Loan Interest Rate of
each ARM or HELOC Mortgage Loan is subject to adjustment.

                  Rating Agencies: S&P and Moody's or such other nationally
recognized credit rating agencies as may from time to time be designated in
writing by the Majority Noteholders in their sole discretion, with the approval
of the Issuer, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.

                  Reallocation Date: Any date on which Loans are conveyed into
the Trust, any date on which any Loans are resold pursuant to a Disposition or
otherwise repurchased or substituted from the Trust and, in the case of HELOC
Mortgage Loans, any date the related Loan Originator automatically conveys the
related Draw Reimbursements Rights to the Depositor or the Issuer and any other
date on which the Allocation Percentage shall change for any reason, as
applicable.

                  Record Date: With respect to each Payment Date, the close of
business on the last day of the preceding Remittance Period.

                  Reference Bank Rate: With respect to any day, the arithmetic
mean (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest one sixteenth of a percent)
of the offered rates for United States dollar deposits for one month that are
offered by the Reference Banks not affiliated with Morgan Stanley & Co.
Incorporated as of 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the related LIBOR
Determination Date to prime banks in the London interbank market for a period of
one month in amounts approximately equal to the Note Principal Balance, provided
that at least two


                                      -24-
<PAGE>   30
such Reference Banks provide such rate. If fewer than two offered rates appear,
the Reference Bank Rate will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted by one
or more major banks in New York City, selected by the Majority Noteholders, as
of 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on such day for loans in U.S. Dollars to
leading European Banks for a period of one month in amounts approximately equal
to the outstanding Note Principal Balance. If no such quotation can be obtained,
the Reference Bank Rate will be the Reference Bank Rate applicable to the
preceding day.

                  Reference Banks: Three money center banks selected by the
Initial Noteholder with the approval of the Issuer, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld.

                  Released Mortgaged Property Proceeds: With respect to any
Loan, proceeds received by the Servicer in connection with (i) a taking of an
entire Mortgaged Property by exercise of the power of eminent domain or
condemnation or (ii) any release of part of the Mortgaged Property from the lien
of the related Mortgage, whether by partial condemnation, sale or otherwise;
which proceeds in either case are not released to the Borrower in accordance
with applicable law and the servicing standard set forth in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement.

                  Remittance Date: The 18th calendar day of each month, if such
date is not a Business Day, the first Business Day immediately following such
day.

                  Remittance Period: With respect to any Determination Date or
Payment Date, the calendar month immediately preceding such Determination Date
or Payment Date, as the case may be.

                  REO Property: Real property (including all improvements and
fixtures on the Mortgaged Property) acquired through foreclosure sale or by deed
in lieu of foreclosure or otherwise.

                  Repurchase Price: With respect to a Loan, the sum of (i) the
Principal Balance thereof as of the date of repurchase, (ii) all accrued and
unpaid interest on such Loan to, but not including the date of repurchase,
computed at the applicable Loan Interest Rate and (iii) the amount of any
unreimbursed Servicing Advances made by the Servicer (after deducting therefrom
any amounts received in respect of such repurchased Loan and being held in the
Collection Account for future distribution to the extent such amounts represent
recoveries of principal not yet applied to reduce the related Principal Balance
or interest for the period from and after the date of repurchase). The
Repurchase Price shall be (i) increased by the net negative value or (ii)
decreased by the net positive value of all Hedging Instruments terminated with
respect to the repurchase of such Loan. To the extent the Servicer does not
reimburse itself for amounts, if any, in respect of the Servicing Advance
Reimbursement Amount pursuant to Section 5.01(c)(1) hereof, with respect to such
Loan, the Repurchase Price shall be reduced by such amounts.

                  Reserve Account: The account established and maintained
pursuant to Section 5.01(a)(3) hereof.



                                      -25-
<PAGE>   31
                  Reserve Account Right: The rights of the Depositor, ANB or
ABC, respectively, to receive releases from the Reserve Account in accordance
with the terms hereof.

                  Responsible Officer: When used with respect to the Indenture
Trustee or Custodian, any officer within the corporate trust office of such
Person, including any Vice President, Assistant Vice President, Secretary,
Assistant Secretary or any other officer of such Person customarily performing
functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and
also, with respect to a particular matter, any other officer to whom such matter
is referred because of such officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the
particular subject. When used with respect to the Issuer, Depositor, ANB, ABC or
any officer of the Owner Trustee who is authorized to act for the Owner Trustee
in matters relating to the Issuer or Depositor and who is identified on the list
of Authorized Officers delivered by the Administrator to the Owner Trustee on
the date hereof (as such list may be modified or supplemented from time to time
thereafter) and, so long as the Administration Agreement is in effect, any Vice
President or more senior officer of the Administrator who is authorized to act
for the Administrator in matters relating to the Issuer, Depositor, ANB or ABC
and to be acted upon by the Administrator pursuant to the Administration
Agreement and who is identified on the list of Responsible Officers delivered by
the Administrator to the Owner Trustee on the date hereof (as such list may be
modified or supplemented from time to time thereafter). When used with respect
to the Depositor, the Loan Originators, the Transfer Obligor or the Servicer,
the President, any Vice President, or the Treasurer.

                  Retained Securities: With respect to a Securitization, any
subordinated securities issued or expected to be issued, or excess collateral
value retained or expected to be retained, in connection therewith to the extent
the Depositor, ANB or ABC or an Affiliate thereof decides in its sole discretion
to retain, instead of sell, such securities.

                  Retained Securities Value: With respect to any Business Day
and a Retained Security, the market value thereof as determined by the Market
Value Agent in accordance with Section 6.03(d) hereof.

                  Revolving Period: With respect to a Note of a given Series,
the period commencing on the Closing Date and ending on the earlier of (i) the
date on which the Revolving Period is terminated pursuant to Section 2.07 and
(ii) the date set forth in the related Indenture Supplement.

                  Sales Price: The sum of the Collateral Value with respect to
each Loan conveyed on any Transfer Date, minus any Overcollateralization
Shortfall as of such date, after giving effect to all payments of principal
received thereon prior to the Transfer Cutoff Date.

                  SAS 70: Relevant Statement on Auditing Standards issued by the
Auditing Standards Board providing guidance on the factors an Independent
Accountant should consider when auditing the financial reports of an entity that
uses a service organization to process certain transactions.



                                      -26-
<PAGE>   32
                  S&SA Assignment: An Assignment, in the form of Exhibit C
hereto, of Loans and other property from the Depositor, ANB and ABC,
respectively, to the Issuer pursuant to this Agreement.

                  Second Lien Loan: A Loan secured by the lien on the Mortgaged
Property, subject to one Senior Lien on such Mortgaged Property.

                  Securities: The Notes or Trust Certificates.

                  Securitization: A sale or transfer of loans, including Loans,
to the Depositor or an Affiliate of the Depositor or any other Person in order
to effect one or a series of structured-finance securitization transactions,
including but not limited to transactions involving the issuance of securities
which may be treated for federal income tax purposes as indebtedness of Advanta
Corp. or one or more of its wholly-owned subsidiaries.

                  Securityholder: Any Noteholder or Certificateholder.

                  Senior Lien: With respect to any Second Lien Loan, the
mortgage loan(s) having a senior priority lien on the related Mortgaged
Property.

                  Series: With respect to a Note, the related series of which
such Note is a part, as specified in the Indenture Supplement. There shall be
only one Series of Notes at any given time.

                  Servicer: Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA, in its capacity as the
master servicer hereunder, or any successor appointed as herein provided.

                  Servicer Call: The optional repurchase by the Servicer of a
Loan pursuant to Section 3.08(b) hereof.

                  Servicer Event of Default: As described in Section 9.01
hereof.

                  Servicer's Fiscal Year: January 1st through December 31st of
each year.

                  Servicer's Loan File: With respect to each Loan, the file held
by the Servicer, consisting of all documents (or electronic images thereof)
relating to such Loan, including, without limitation, copies of all of the Loan
Documents included in the related Custodial Loan File as well as the original
attorney's opinion of title and abstract of title or the original mortgagee
title insurance policy, or if the original mortgagee title insurance policy has
not been issued, the original irrevocable commitment to issue the same, or with
respect to a HELOC Mortgage Loan with a Credit Limit less than $50,000, the
title report.

                  Servicer's Remittance Report: A report prepared and computed
by the Servicer in substantially the form of Exhibit B attached hereto.



                                      -27-
<PAGE>   33
                  Servicing Advance Reimbursement Amount: With respect to any
Determination Date, the amount of any Servicing Advances that have not been
reimbursed as of such date, including Nonrecoverable Servicing Advances.

                  Servicing Advances: As defined in Section 4.08 hereof.

                  Servicing Compensation: The Servicing Fee and other amounts to
which the Servicer is entitled pursuant to Section 4.16 hereof.

                  Servicing Fee: As to each Loan (including any Loan that has
been foreclosed and has become a Foreclosure Property, but excluding any
Liquidated Loan), the fee payable monthly to the Servicer on each Payment Date,
which shall be the product of the applicable Servicing Fee Rate and the
Principal Balance of such Loan as of the beginning of the immediately preceding
Remittance Period, divided by 12. The Servicing Fee includes any servicing fees
owed or payable to any Subservicer, which fees shall be paid from the Servicing
Fee.

                  Servicing Fee Rate: Unless the Servicer informs the Issuer and
the Initial Noteholder in writing otherwise, 0.50%. The Servicer may inform
Issuer and the Initial Noteholder in writing that the Servicing Fee Rate shall
be a rate other than 0.50%, but not to exceed 0.75%. The Servicing Fee Rate may
exceed 0.75% only with the consent of the Initial Noteholder.

                  Servicing Officer: Any officer of the Servicer or Subservicer
involved in, or responsible for, the administration and servicing of the Loans
whose name and specimen signature appears on a list of servicing officers
annexed to an Officer's Certificate furnished by the Servicer or the
Subservicer, respectively, on the date hereof to the Issuer and the Indenture
Trustee, on behalf of the Noteholders, as such list may from time to time be
amended.

                  S&P: Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The
McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.

                  State: Means any one of the states of the United States of
America or the District of Columbia.

                  Subservicer: Any Person with which the Servicer has entered
into a Subservicing Agreement and which is an Eligible Servicer and satisfies
any requirements set forth in Section 4.03 hereof in respect of the
qualifications of a Subservicer.

                  Subservicing Account: An account established by a Subservicer
pursuant to a Subservicing Agreement, which account must be an Eligible Account.

                  Subservicing Agreement: Any agreement between the Servicer and
any Subservicer relating to subservicing and/or administration of any or all
Loans as provided in Section 4.03 hereof. Copies of any Subservicing Agreement
between the Servicer and a Subservicer which is not an Affiliate of the Servicer
shall be made available, along with any modifications thereto, to the Initial
Noteholder.



                                      -28-
<PAGE>   34
                  Substitution Adjustment: As to any date on which a
substitution occurs pursuant to Section 2.05 or Section 3.06 hereof, the amount,
if any, by which (a) the sum of the aggregate principal balance (after
application of principal payments received on or before the date of
substitution) of any Qualified Substitute Loans as of the date of substitution,
plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of substitution, is
less than (b) the sum of the aggregate of the Principal Balances, together with
accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of substitution, of the related
Deleted Loans.

                  Termination Event: Shall have the meaning set forth in Section
5.17 of the Indenture.

                  Termination Period: Shall be the 30 day period commencing with
the occurrence of a Termination Event or such other longer period as the
Majority Noteholders may approve.

                  Termination Price: As of any Determination Date, an amount
without duplication equal to the greater of (A) the Note Redemption Amount and
(B) the sum of (i) the Principal Balance of each Loan included in the Trust as
of the end of the preceding Remittance Period; and (ii) all unpaid interest
accrued on the Principal Balance of each such Loan (net of the Servicing Fee) to
the end of the preceding Remittance Period.

                  Transfer Cutoff Date: With respect to each Loan, the later of
the first day of the month in which the Transfer Date occurs or the date of
origination (or, with respect to a HELOC Mortgage Loan, origination shall mean
the date of the first draw).

                  Transfer Cutoff Date Principal Balance: As to each Loan, its
Principal Balance as of the opening of business on the Transfer Cutoff Date
(after giving effect to any payments received on the Loan before the Transfer
Cutoff Date).

                  Transfer Date: With respect to each Loan, the day such Loan is
sold and conveyed to the Depositor by AMCUSA pursuant to the Loan Purchase
Agreement and to the Issuer by the Depositor, ANB and ABC, as applicable,
pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof.

                  Transfer Obligation: The obligation of the Transfer Obligor
under Section 5.06 hereof to make certain payments in connection with
Dispositions and other related matters.

                  Transfer Obligation Account: The account designated as such,
established and maintained pursuant to Section 5.05 hereof.

                  Transfer Obligation Target Amount: With respect to any Payment
Date or Collateral Value Excess Date, as applicable, the cumulative total of all
withdrawals pursuant to Section 5.05(e), 5.05(f), 5.05(g), and 5.05(h) hereof
from the Transfer Obligation Account to but not including such Payment Date
minus any amount withdrawn from the Transfer Obligation Account to return to the
Transfer Obligor pursuant to Section 5.05(k)(i).

                  Transfer Obligor: Advanta Corp., a Delaware corporation.



                                      -29-
<PAGE>   35
                  Treasury Regulations: The regulations, or temporary
regulations, promulgated under the Code. References herein to specific
provisions of temporary regulations shall include analogous provisions of final
Treasury Regulations or other successor Treasury Regulations.

                  Trust: Advanta Home Equity Loan Owner Trust 1998-MS1, the
Delaware business trust created pursuant to the Trust Agreement.

                  Trust Agreement: The Trust Agreement dated as of September 25,
1998 among the Depositor and the Owner Trustee.

                  Trust Account Property: The Trust Accounts, all amounts and
investments held from time to time in the Trust Accounts and all proceeds of the
foregoing.

                  Trust Accounts: The Distribution Account, the Collection
Account, the Transfer Obligation Account and the Reserve Account.

                  Trust Certificate: The meaning assigned thereto in the Trust
Agreement.

                  Trust Estate: Shall mean the assets subject to this Agreement,
the Trust Agreement and the Indenture and assigned to the Trust, which assets
consist of: (i) such Loans as from time to time are subject to this Agreement as
listed in the Loan Schedule, as the same may be amended or supplemented on each
Transfer Date, by the removal of Deleted Loans and by the addition of Qualified
Substitute Loans, together with the Servicer's Loan Files and the Custodial Loan
Files relating thereto and all proceeds thereof, and including, with respect to
all HELOC Mortgage Loans, all Draws which arise after the related Transfer
Cutoff Date on HELOC Mortgage Loans then held by the Trust, the Credit Line
Agreements and all rights and obligations of the Loan Originator under the
related Credit Line Agreements, including the rights to fund Draws thereunder,
(ii) the Mortgages and security interests in the Mortgaged Property, (iii) all
payments in respect of principal and interest collected or received with respect
to each Loan on or after the related Transfer Cutoff Date, (iv) such assets as
from time to time are identified as Foreclosure Property, (v) such assets and
funds as are from time to time deposited in the Distribution Account, Collection
Account, the Transfer Obligation Account and the Reserve Account, including,
without limitation, amounts on deposit in such accounts that are invested in
Permitted Investments (except any Premium Recapture and net investment
earnings), (vi) lenders' rights under all Mortgage Insurance Policies and to any
Mortgage Insurance Proceeds, (vii) Net Liquidation Proceeds and Released
Mortgaged Property Proceeds, (viii) all right, title and interest of the Trust
(but none of the obligations) in and to the obligations of Hedging
Counterparties under Hedging Instruments and (ix) all right, title and interest
of each of the Depositor and ANB and ABC and the Trust in and under the Basic
Documents including, without limitation, the obligations of the Loan Originators
(other than ANB and ABC) under the Loan Purchase Agreement pursuant to which the
Depositor acquired the Loans from the Loan Originators (other than ANB and ABC),
and all proceeds of any of the foregoing.



                                      -30-
<PAGE>   36
                  Trust Fees and Expenses: As of each Payment Date, an amount
equal to the Servicing Compensation, the Owner Trustee Fee, the Indenture
Trustee Fee and the Custodian Fee, if any.

                  UCC: The Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of
New York.

                  UCC Assignment: A form "UCC-2" or "UCC-3" statement meeting
the requirements of the Uniform Commercial Code of the relevant jurisdiction to
reflect an assignment of a secured party's interest in collateral.

                  UCC-1 Financing Statement: A financing statement meeting the
requirements of the Uniform Commercial Code of the relevant jurisdiction.

                  Underwriting Guidelines: The underwriting guidelines
(including the loan origination guidelines) provided to the Initial Noteholder
on or prior to the date hereof by the Loan Originators or Affiliates thereof, as
amended and updated from time to time.

                  Unfunded Draw Reimbursement Amount: As of any date of
determination, the positive difference, if any, of (x) the aggregate of all
Draws made on HELOC Mortgage Loans on or prior to such date for which the
related Loan Originator has automatically conveyed the related Draw
Reimbursement Rights less (y) the aggregate of all Principal Balances of each
Draw for which Collateral Value Excesses were eliminated.

                  Unfunded Transfer Obligation: With respect to any date of
determination, an amount equal to (x) the sum of (A) 10% of the aggregate
Collateral Value (as of the related Transfer Date, inclusive, in the case of
HELOC Mortgage Loans, of the Collateral Value attributable to the Principal
Balance of each Draw for which the Collateral Value Excesses have been
eliminated) of all Loans sold hereunder, plus (B) any amounts withdrawn or
deemed withdrawn from the Transfer Obligation Account for return to the Transfer
Obligor pursuant to Section 5.05(k)(i) hereof prior to such Payment Date, less
(y) the sum of (i) the aggregate amount of payments actually made by the
Transfer Obligor in respect of the Transfer Obligation pursuant to Section 5.06
plus (ii) the aggregate amount of the Repurchase Prices paid by the Loan
Originators in respect of any Loan Originator Puts plus (iii) any Unfunded Draw
Reimbursement Rights as of such date.

                  Unfunded Transfer Obligation Percentage: As of any date of
determination, an amount equal to (x) the Unfunded Transfer Obligation as of
such date, divided by (y) 100% of the aggregate Collateral Value as of the
related Transfer Date of all Loans sold hereunder.

                  Unqualified Loan: As defined in Section 3.06(a) hereof.

                  USAP: The Uniform Single Attestation Program for Mortgage
Bankers.

                  Warehouse Lines: Any facility or arrangement between Advanta
Corp. or any of its affiliates, on the one hand, and Morgan Stanley Mortgage
Capital, Inc. or any of its affiliates, on the other hand, which has been
designated in writing by the Depositor, the Loan


                                      -31-
<PAGE>   37
Originators and Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital, Inc. to be deemed a "Warehouse
Line" for purposes of this Agreement.

                  Wet Custodial File Delivery Date: With respect to a Wet Funded
Loan, the twenty-first day after the related Transfer Date, provided that if a
Default or Event of Default shall have occurred, the Wet Custodial File Delivery
Date shall be the fifth day after the occurrence of such event.

                  Wet Funded Loan: A Loan for which the related Custodial Loan
File shall not have been delivered to the Custodian as of the related Transfer
Date.

                  Whole Loan Sale: A Disposition of Loans pursuant to a
whole-loan sale.

                  Section 1.02 Other Definitional Provisions.

                  (a) Any agreement, instrument or statute defined or referred
to herein or in any instrument or certificate delivered in connection herewith
means such agreement, instrument or statute as from time to time amended,
modified or supplemented and includes (in the case of agreements or instruments)
references to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein;
references to a Person are also to its permitted successors and assigns.

                  (b) All terms defined in this Agreement shall have the defined
meanings when used in any certificate or other document made or delivered
pursuant hereto unless otherwise defined therein.

                  (c) As used in this Agreement and in any certificate or other
document made or delivered pursuant hereto or thereto, accounting terms not
defined in this Agreement or in any such certificate or other document, and
accounting terms partly defined in this Agreement or in any such certificate or
other document to the extent not defined, shall have the respective meanings
given to them under GAAP. To the extent that the definitions of accounting terms
in this Agreement or in any such certificate or other document are inconsistent
with the meanings of such terms under GAAP, the definitions contained in this
Agreement or in any such certificate or other document shall control.

                  (d) The words "hereof," "herein," "hereunder" and words of
similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a
whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement; Article, Section,
Schedule and Exhibit references contained in this Agreement are references to
Articles, Sections, Schedules and Exhibits in or to this Agreement unless
otherwise specified; and the term "including" shall mean "including without
limitation."

                  (e) The definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable
to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms and to the masculine
as well as to the feminine and neuter genders of such terms.



                                      -32-
<PAGE>   38
                                   ARTICLE II

            CONVEYANCE OF THE TRUST ESTATE; ADDITIONAL NOTE PRINCIPAL
                                    BALANCES

                  Section 2.01 Conveyance of the Trust Estate; Additional Note
                               Principal Balances.

                  (a)(i) On the terms and conditions of this Agreement, on each
Transfer Date, each of the Depositor, ANB and ABC, as applicable, agree to offer
for sale and to sell Loans and deliver related Loan Documents to or at the
direction of the Issuer. To the extent the Issuer has or is able to obtain
sufficient funds for the purchase thereof, the Issuer agrees to purchase such
Loans offered for sale by the Depositor, ANB and ABC, as applicable.

                  (ii) In consideration of the payment of the Additional Note
Principal Balance pursuant to Section 2.06 hereof, the Depositor, ANB and ABC,
as applicable, as of the initial Closing Date and concurrently with the
execution and delivery hereof, hereby sell, transfer, assign, set over and
otherwise convey to the Issuer, without recourse, but subject to the other terms
and provisions of this Agreement, all of the right, title and interest of the
Depositor, ANB and ABC, as applicable, in and to the Trust Estate.

                  (iii) During the Revolving Period, on each Transfer Date,
subject to the conditions precedent set forth in Section 2.06(a) and in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.01(c), the Depositor, ANB
and ABC, as applicable, pursuant to an S&SA Assignment, will assign to the
Issuer without recourse all their right, title and interest in and to the Loans
and all proceeds thereof listed on the Loan Schedule attached to such S&SA
Assignment, including all interest and principal received by the Loan
Originators, the Depositor or the Servicer on or with respect to the Loans on or
after the related Transfer Cutoff Date (and including Monthly Payments due on or
after the related Transfer Cutoff Date but received by the Loan Originators on
or before the related Transfer Cutoff Date and held for application on the
related scheduled Due Dates and excluding any Premium Recapture), together with
all right, title and interest in and to the proceeds of any related Mortgage
Insurance Policies and all of the Depositor's rights, title and interest in and
to (but none of its obligations under) the Loan Purchase Agreement and all
proceeds of the foregoing.

                  (iv) The foregoing sales, transfers, assignments, set overs
and conveyances do not, and are not intended to, result in a creation or an
assumption by the Issuer of any of the obligations of the Depositor, the Loan
Originators or any other Person in connection with the Trust Estate or under any
agreement or instrument relating thereto except as specifically set forth in the
Basic Documents.

                  (v) With respect to ANB, ABC and the Depositor, as applicable,
and with respect to a HELOC Mortgage Loan sold on a Transfer Date, ANB, ABC and
the Depositor, as applicable, hereby assigns to the Issuer and the Issuer hereby
assumes with respect to each such HELOC Mortgage Loan, the duty to fund Draws
under the related Credit Line Agreement. The Issuer hereby delegates to ANB, ABC
and the Depositor, and each of ANB, ABC and the Depositor hereby assumes with
respect to each HELOC Mortgage Loan


                                      -33-
<PAGE>   39
originated by ANB, ABC and AMCUSA, respectively and sold hereunder, the duty to
fund Draws under the related Credit Line Agreement. In consideration of the
foregoing, the Issuer hereby assigns, transfers and conveys to ANB, ABC and the
Depositor, as applicable, all the right, title and interest in and to the Draw
Reimbursement Rights relating to such HELOC Mortgage Loan.

                  (vi) With respect to a HELOC Mortgage Loan, upon the funding
of Draws under the related Credit Line Agreement, ANB, ABC and the Depositor, as
applicable, agrees to and hereby assigns, automatically, and without any further
action, to the Issuer without recourse all the right, title and interest of ANB,
ABC and the Depositor, as applicable, in and to the Draw Reimbursement Rights
and all proceeds thereof. In consideration of the foregoing, the Trust
Certificates attributable to ANB, ABC and the Depositor shall automatically be
adjusted ratably to reflect the conveyance of the related Draw Reimbursement
Rights.

                  (b) As of the Closing Date and as of each Transfer Date, the
Issuer acknowledges (or will acknowledge pursuant to the S&SA Assignment) the
conveyance to it of the Trust Estate, including all rights, title and interest
of the Depositor, ANB and ABC, as applicable, in and to the Trust Estate,
receipt of which is hereby acknowledged by the Issuer. Concurrently with such
delivery, as of the initial Closing Date and as of each Transfer Date, pursuant
to the Indenture the Issuer pledges the Trust Estate to the Indenture Trustee.
In addition, concurrently with such delivery and in exchange therefor, the Owner
Trustee, pursuant to the instructions of the Depositor, has executed (not in its
individual capacity, but solely as Owner Trustee on behalf of the Issuer) and
caused the Trust Certificates to be authenticated and delivered to or at the
direction of the Depositor, ANB and ABC, respectively.

                  (c)(i) Pursuant to and subject to the Note Purchase Agreement,
the Trust may, at its sole option, from time to time request that the Initial
Noteholder advance on any Transfer Date and on any Collateral Value Excess Date,
Additional Note Principal Balances and the Initial Noteholder shall remit on
such Transfer Date or Collateral Value Excess Date, as the case may be, to the
Advance Account an amount equal to the Additional Note Principal Balance.

                  (ii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in no
event shall the Initial Noteholder be required to advance Additional Note
Principal Balances on a Transfer Date if the conditions precedent to a transfer
of the Loans under Section 2.06(a) and the conditions precedent to the purchase
of Additional Note Principal Balances set forth in Section 3.01 of the Note
Purchase Agreement have not been fulfilled.

                  (iii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in no
event shall the Initial Noteholder be required to advance Additional Note
Principal Balance on a Collateral Value Excess Date if the conditions precedent
thereto set forth in Section 2.06(b) and the conditions precedent to the
purchase of Additional Note Principal Balances set forth in Section 3.01 of the
Note Purchase Agreement have not been fulfilled.



                                      -34-
<PAGE>   40
                  (iv) The Servicer shall appropriately note such Additional
Note Principal Balance (and the increased Note Principal Balance) in the next
succeeding Payment Statement; provided, however, that failure to make any such
notation in such Payment Statement or any error in such notation shall not
adversely affect any Noteholder's rights with respect to its Note Principal
Balance and its right to receive interest and principal payments in respect of
the Note Principal Balance held by such Noteholder. The Initial Noteholder shall
record on the schedule attached to such Noteholder's Note, the date and amount
of any Additional Note Principal Balance advanced by it; provided, that failure
to make such recordation on such schedule or any error in such schedule shall
not adversely affect any Noteholder's rights with respect to its Note Principal
Balance and its right to receive interest and principal payments in respect of
the Note Principal Balance held by such Noteholder.

                  (v) Absent manifest error, the Note Principal Balance of each
Note as set forth in the Initial Noteholder's records shall be binding upon the
Noteholders and the Trust, notwithstanding any notation made by the Servicer in
its Payment Statement pursuant to the preceding paragraph.

                  Section 2.02 Ownership and Possession of Loan Files.

                  With respect to each Loan, as of the related Transfer Date the
ownership of the related Promissory Note, the related Mortgage and the contents
of the related Servicer's Loan File and Custodial Loan File shall be vested in
the Trust for the benefit of the Securityholders, although possession of the
Servicer's Loan File (other than items required to be maintained in the
Custodial Loan Files) on behalf of and for the benefit of the Securityholders
shall remain with the Servicer, and the Custodian shall take possession of the
Custodial Loan Files as contemplated in Section 2.05 hereof.

                  Section 2.03 Books and Records; Intention of the Parties.

                  (a) As of each Transfer Date, the sale of each of the Loans
conveyed on such Transfer Date shall be reflected on the balance sheets and
other financial statements of the Depositor and the Loan Originators, as the
case may be, as a sale of assets by the Depositor and the Loan Originators, as
the case may be, under GAAP. Each of the Servicer and the Custodian shall be
responsible for maintaining, and shall maintain, a complete set of books and
records for each Loan which shall be clearly marked to reflect the ownership of
each Loan, as of the related Transfer Date, by the Issuer and for the benefit of
the Securityholders.

                  (b) It is the intention of the parties hereto that, other than
for federal, state and local income or franchise tax purposes, the transfers and
assignments of the Trust Estate on the initial Closing Date, on each Transfer
Date and as otherwise contemplated by the Basic Documents and the Assignments
shall constitute a sale of the Trust Estate including, without limitation, the
Loans and all other property comprising the Trust Estate specified in Section
2.01(a) hereof, from the Depositor, ANB, ABC, as applicable, to the Issuer and
such property shall not be property of the Depositor, ANB or ABC. The parties
hereto shall treat the Notes as indebtedness for federal, state and local income
and franchise tax purposes.



                                      -35-
<PAGE>   41
                  (c)      If any of the assignments and transfers of the Loans
and the other property of the Trust Estate specified in Section 2.01(a) hereof
to the Issuer pursuant to this Agreement or the conveyance of the Loans or any
of such other property of the Trust Estate to the Issuer, other than for
federal, state and local income or franchise tax purposes, is held or deemed not
to be a sale or is held or deemed to be a pledge of security for a loan, the
Depositor, ANB and ABC intend that the rights and obligations of the parties
shall be established pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and that, in such
event, with respect to such property, (i) consisting of Loans and related
property, the Depositor, ANB and ABC, as applicable, shall be deemed to have
granted, as of the related Transfer Date, to the Issuer a first priority
security interest in the entire right, title and interest of the Depositor, ANB
and ABC, as applicable, in and to such Loans and proceeds and all other property
conveyed to the Issuer as of such Transfer Date, (ii) consisting of any other
property specified in Section 2.01(a), the Depositor, ANB and ABC, as
applicable, shall be deemed to have granted, as of the initial Closing Date, to
the Issuer a first priority security interest in the entire right, title and
interest of the Depositor, ANB and ABC, as applicable, in and to such property
and the proceeds thereof. In such event, with respect to such property, this
Agreement shall constitute a security agreement under applicable law.

                  (d)      Within ten (10) days of the initial Transfer Date,
the Depositor, ANB and ABC shall, at each party's sole expense, cause to be
filed UCC-1 Financing Statements naming the Issuer as "secured party" and
describing the Trust Estate being sold by the Depositor, ANB and ABC,
respectively, to the Issuer with the office of the Secretary of State of the
state in which the Depositor, ANB and ABC are located.

                  Section 2.04  Delivery of Loan Documents.

                  (a)      The related Loan Originator shall, no less than four
(4) Business Days prior to the related Transfer Date, or such other time as
mutually agreed upon between the related Loan Originator and the Custodian (or
in the case of a Wet Funded Loan, on or before the related Wet Custodial File
Delivery Date), deliver or cause to be delivered to the Custodian, as the
designated agent of the Indenture Trustee, a Loan Schedule and each of the
following documents (collectively, the "Custodial Loan File"):

                  (i)      the original Promissory Note bearing all intervening
                           endorsements, endorsed either (i) "Pay to the order
                           of Bankers Trust Company of California, N.A., as
                           custodian or trustee under the applicable custody or
                           trust agreement, without recourse" or (ii) "Pay to
                           the order of Bankers Trust Company of California,
                           N.A., as custodian or trustee under the applicable
                           custody or trust agreement, without recourse, Advanta
                           as Servicer," or (iii) "Pay to the order of Bankers
                           Trust Company of California, N.A., as custodian or
                           trustee" by [Seller, signature, name, title] and
                           signed in the name of the previous owner by an
                           authorized officer (in the event that the Loan was
                           acquired by the previous owner in a merger the
                           signature must be in the following form: "[the
                           previous owner], successor by merger to [name of
                           predecessor]", in the event that the Loan was
                           acquired or originated while doing business under
                           another


                                      -36-
<PAGE>   42
                           name, the signature must be in the following form:
                           "[the previous owner], formerly known as [previous
                           name]" or (iv) "Pay to the order of Bankers Trust
                           Company of California, N.A., without recourse" or (v)
                           "Pay to the order of __________________, without
                           recourse". The original Promissory Note should be
                           accompanied by any rider made in connection with the
                           origination of the related Loan;

                  (ii)     the original of any guarantee executed in connection
                           with the Promissory Note (if any);

                  (iii)    the original Mortgage with evidence of recording
                           thereon or copies certified by the related recording
                           office or, if the original Mortgage has not yet been
                           returned from the recording office, a certified copy
                           of the Mortgage;

                  (iv)     the originals of any assumption, modification,
                           consolidation or extension agreements;

                  (v)      the original or a certified copy of the Assignment of
                           Mortgage of each Loan to "Bankers Trust Company of
                           California, N.A., as custodian or trustee", "Bankers
                           Trust Company of California, N.A. as trustee or
                           custodian on behalf of Advanta Conduit Receivables
                           Inc.", "Bankers Trust Company of California, N.A., as
                           trustee" or "Pay to the Order of _____________." In
                           the event that the Loan was acquired by the previous
                           owner in a merger, the Assignment of Mortgage must be
                           by the "(previous owner), successor by merger to
                           (names of predecessor)"; and in the event that the
                           Loan was acquired or originated by the previous owner
                           while doing business under another name, the
                           Assignment of Mortgage must be by the "(previous
                           owner), formerly known as (previous name)";

                  (vi)     the originals of all intervening Assignments of
                           Mortgage, showing a complete chain of assignment from
                           origination to the related Loan Originator, including
                           warehousing assignments, with evidence of recording
                           thereon (or, if an original intervening assignment
                           has not been returned from the recording office, a
                           certified copy thereof);

                  (b)      The Loan Originator shall, on the related Transfer
Date (or in the case of a Wet Funded Loan, on or before the related Wet
Custodial File Delivery Date), deliver or cause to be delivered to the Servicer
for the benefit of the Indenture Trustee, as secured party on behalf of the
Noteholders, the related Servicer's Loan File.

                  (c) The Indenture Trustee shall cause the Custodian to take
and maintain continuous physical possession of the Custodial Loan Files in the
State of California and, in connection therewith, shall act solely as agent for
the Noteholders in accordance with the terms hereof and not as agent for the
Loan Originators, the Servicer or any other party.


                                      -37-
<PAGE>   43
                  Section 2.05 Acceptance by the Indenture Trustee of the
                               Loans; Certain Substitutions and Repurchases;
                               Certification by the Custodian.

                  (a) The Indenture Trustee declares that it will cause the
Custodian to hold the Custodial Loan Files and any additions, amendments,
replacements or supplements to the documents contained therein, as well as any
other assets included in the Trust Estate and delivered to the Custodian, in
trust, upon and subject to the conditions set forth herein. The Indenture
Trustee further agrees to cause the Custodian to execute and deliver such
certifications as are required under the Custodial Agreement and to otherwise
direct the Custodian to perform all of its obligations with respect to the
Custodial Loan Files in strict accordance with the terms of the Custodial
Agreement.

                  (b)(i)   With respect to any Loans which are set forth as
exceptions in the Exceptions Report (after giving effect to the specific
provisions relating to Wet Funded Loans in Section 2.04(a)), the related Loan
Originator shall cure such exception by delivering such missing documents to the
Custodian or otherwise curing the defect no later than (A) other than Loan
Documents specified in clause (B) below, in the case of (x) a non-Wet Funded
Loan, 5 Business Days, or (y) in the case of a Wet Funded Loan one Business Day,
in each case, following the receipt of the first Loan Schedule and Exceptions
Report listing such exception with respect to such Loan or (B) in the case of
Loan Documents referenced in Section 2.04(a) (iii), (iv) and (vi) 30 days after
the related Transfer Date or with respect to Wet Funded Loans, from the related
Wet Custodial File Delivery Date.

                  (ii)     In the event that, with respect to any Loan, the
related Loan Originator does not comply with the document delivery requirements
of this Section 2.05, the related Loan Originator shall repurchase such Loan
within one Business Day of notice thereof from the Indenture Trustee or the
Initial Noteholder at the Repurchase Price with respect to such Loan by
depositing such Repurchase Price in the Collection Account; provided, however,
that if there is not an Overcollateralization Shortfall on the date of such
repurchase (after giving effect to such repurchase) the Loan Originator shall
remit the Alternate Repurchase Price in accordance with Section 5.01(c)(4)(i).
In lieu of such a repurchase, the Depositor and related Loan Originator may
comply with the substitution provisions of Section 3.06 hereof. The related Loan
Originator shall provide the Servicer, the Indenture Trustee, the Issuer and the
Initial Noteholder with a certification of a Responsible Officer on or prior to
such repurchase or substitution indicating that the related Loan Originator
intends to repurchase or substitute such Loan.

                  (iii)    It is understood and agreed that the obligation of
the related Loan Originator to repurchase or substitute any such Loan pursuant
to this Section 2.05(b) shall constitute the sole remedy against it with respect
to such failure to comply with the foregoing delivery requirements.

                  (c)      In performing its reviews of the Custodial Loan Files
pursuant to the Custodial Agreement, the Custodian shall have no responsibility
to determine the genuineness of any document contained therein and any signature
thereon. The Custodian shall not have any responsibility for determining whether
any document is valid and binding, whether the text


                                      -38-
<PAGE>   44
of any assignment or endorsement is in proper or recordable form, whether any
document has been recorded in accordance with the requirements of any applicable
jurisdiction or whether a blanket assignment is permitted in any applicable
jurisdiction.

                  (d)      The Servicer's Loan File shall be held in the custody
of the Servicer (i) for the benefit of, and as agent for, the Noteholders and
(ii) for the benefit of the Indenture Trustee, on behalf of the Noteholders, for
so long as the Notes are outstanding; after the Notes are not outstanding, the
Servicer's Loan File shall be held in the custody of the Servicer for the
benefit of, and as agent for, the Certificateholders. It is intended that, by
the Servicer's agreement pursuant to this Section 2.05(d), the Indenture Trustee
shall be deemed to have possession of the Servicer's Loan Files for purposes of
Section 9-305 of the UCC of the state in which such documents or instruments are
located. The Servicer shall promptly report to the Indenture Trustee any failure
by it to hold the Servicer's Loan File as herein provided and shall promptly
take appropriate action to remedy any such failure. In acting as custodian of
such documents and instruments, the Servicer agrees not to assert any legal or
beneficial ownership interest in the Loans or such documents or instruments.
Subject to Section 8.01(d), the Servicer agrees to indemnify the Securityholders
and the Indenture Trustee, its officers, directors, employees, agents and
"control persons" as such term is used under the Act and under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended for any and all liabilities, obligations,
losses, damages, payments, costs or expenses of any kind whatsoever which may be
imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Securityholders or the Indenture
Trustee as the result of the negligence or willful misfeasance by the Servicer
relating to the maintenance and custody of such documents or instruments which
have been delivered to the Servicer provided, however, that the Servicer will
not be liable for any portion of any such amount resulting from the negligence
or willful misconduct of any Securityholders or the Indenture Trustee; and
provided, further, that the Servicer will not be liable for any portion of any
such amount resulting from the Servicer's compliance with any instructions or
directions consistent with this Agreement issued to the Servicer by the
Indenture Trustee or the Majority Noteholders. The Indenture Trustee shall have
no duty to monitor or otherwise oversee the Servicer's performance as custodian
hereunder.

                  Section 2.06 Conditions Precedent to Transfer Dates and
                               Collateral Value Excess Dates.

                  (a)      On each Transfer Date, the Depositor, ANB and ABC, as
applicable, shall convey to the Issuer, the Loans and the other property and
rights related thereto described in the related S&SA Assignment, and the Issuer
shall cause the Initial Noteholder, pursuant to and subject to the Note Purchase
Agreement, only upon the satisfaction of each of the conditions set forth below
on or prior to such Transfer Date, to deposit or cause to be deposited cash in
the amount of the Additional Note Principal Balance in the Advance Account (or
in the case of Wet Funded Loans, in the Reserve Account to the extent of the
Sales Prices therefor) in respect thereof, and the Servicer shall, promptly
after such deposit, withdraw the amount deposited in respect of applicable
Additional Note Principal Balance from the Advance Account, and distribute such
amount to or at the direction of the Depositor, ANB and ABC. As of each Transfer
Date:


                                      -39-
<PAGE>   45
                  (i)      the Depositor, ANB and ABC, as applicable, shall have
                           delivered to the Issuer and the Initial Noteholder
                           duly executed Assignments, which shall have attached
                           thereto a Loan Schedule setting forth the appropriate
                           information with respect to all Loans conveyed on
                           such date, expressed in an amount, and shall have
                           delivered to the Initial Noteholder a computer
                           readable transmission of such Loan Schedule;

                  (ii)     the Depositor, ANB and ABC or the Servicer, as
                           applicable, shall have deposited in the Collection
                           Account all collections received with respect to each
                           of the Loans on and after the applicable Transfer
                           Cutoff Date;

                  (iii)    neither the Loan Originators, nor the Depositor shall
                           (A) be insolvent, (B) be made insolvent by its
                           respective sale of Loans or (C) have reason to
                           believe that its insolvency is imminent;

                  (iv)     the Revolving Period shall not have terminated;

                  (v)      there shall be no Overcollateralization Shortfall;

                  (vi)     in the case of non-Wet Funded Loans, the Issuer shall
                           have delivered the Custodial Loan File to the
                           Custodian in accordance with the Custodial Agreement
                           and the Initial Noteholder shall have received a copy
                           of the Loan Schedule and Exceptions Report reflecting
                           such delivery with evidence that the Promissory Note
                           and Assignment of Mortgage with respect to such Loan
                           shall be present therein;

                  (vii)    each of the representations and warranties made by
                           the Loan Originators pursuant to Section 3.05 with
                           respect to the Loans shall be true and correct in all
                           material respects as of the related Transfer Date
                           with the same effect as if then made, and the
                           Depositor, ANB and ABC shall have performed all
                           obligations to be performed by it under the Basic
                           Documents on or prior to such Transfer Date;

                  (viii)   the Depositor, ANB and ABC shall each, at its own
                           expense, within one Business Day following the
                           Transfer Date, indicate in its computer files that
                           the Loans, expressed in an amount, identified in the
                           LPA Assignment (with respect to Loans sold by the
                           Depositor) and S&SA Assignment have been sold to the
                           Issuer pursuant to this Agreement and the S&SA
                           Assignment;

                  (ix)     the Depositor, ANB and ABC shall have taken any
                           action requested by the Indenture Trustee, the Issuer
                           or the Noteholders


                                      -40-
<PAGE>   46
                           required to maintain the ownership interest of the
                           Issuer in the Trust Estate;

                  (x)      no selection procedures believed by the Depositor,
                           ANB or ABC to be adverse to the interests of the
                           Noteholders shall have been utilized in selecting the
                           Loans conveyed on such Transfer Date;

                  (xi)     the Depositor, ANB or ABC, as applicable, shall have
                           provided the Issuer, the Indenture Trustee and the
                           Initial Noteholder no later than one Business Day
                           prior to such date a Notice of Additional Note
                           Principal Balance in the form of Exhibit A hereto;

                  (xii)    after giving effect to the Additional Note Principal
                           Balance associated therewith, the Note Principal
                           Balance will not exceed the Maximum Note Principal
                           Balance;

                  (xiii)   all conditions precedent to the Depositor's purchase
                           of Loans pursuant to the Loan Purchase Agreement
                           shall have been fulfilled as of such Transfer Date;

                  (xiv)    all conditions precedent to the Noteholders' purchase
                           of Additional Note Principal Balance pursuant to the
                           Note Purchase Agreement shall have been fulfilled;
                           and

                  (xv)     on or prior to any Transfer Date the Unfunded Draw
                           Reimbursement Amount shall have been reduced to zero.

                  (b)      On each Collateral Value Excess Date, upon the
satisfaction of conditions set forth in subclauses (iii), (iv), (ix), (xi),
(xii), (xiii) and (xiv) of Section 2.06(a) on such Collateral Value Excess Date,
the Issuer shall deposit, cause the Initial Noteholder to deposit, or otherwise
cause to be deposited into (i) the Transfer Obligation Account, cash in the
amount equal to the lesser of (A) the Additional Note Principal Balance and (B)
the Transfer Obligation Target Amount and (ii) the Advance Account the excess
(if any) of the Additional Note Principal Balance over the amount deposited into
the Transfer Obligation Account pursuant to clause (i) above; provided that, in
the case of Wet Funded Loans, the Additional Note Principal Balance shall be
deposited in the Reserve Account to the extent of the Sales Prices therefor. The
Issuer agrees that on each Collateral Value Excess Date on which there exists an
Unfunded Draw Reimbursement Amount, the Issuer shall issue Additional Note
Principal Balances in the maximum amount permitted by the related Collateral
Value Excess. The Servicer shall withdraw the amount deposited in respect of
Additional Note Principal Balance from the Advance Account in respect of such
deposit and distribute such amount to or at the direction of the Depositor, ANB
and ABC in accordance with the Allocation Percentage or as such parties may
otherwise direct.


                                      -41-
<PAGE>   47
                  Section 2.07 Termination of Revolving Period .

                  Upon the occurrence of (i) an Event of Default or Default or
(ii) a Rapid Amortization Trigger, the Initial Noteholder (if still a
Noteholder) may, in its sole discretion, terminate the Revolving Period.

                  Section 2.08 Correction of Errors .

                  The parties hereto shall cooperate to reconcile any errors in
calculating the Sales Price from and after the Closing Date. In the event that
an error in the Sales Price is discovered by any party, including without
limitation, any error due to miscalculations of Market Value where insufficient
information has been provided with respect to a Loan to make an accurate
determination of Market Value as of any applicable Transfer Date, any
miscalculations of Principal Balance, accrued interest, Overcollateralization
Shortfall or aggregate unreimbursed Servicing Advances attributable to the
applicable Loan, or any prepayments not properly credited, such party shall give
prompt notice to the other parties hereto, and the party that shall have
benefited from such error shall promptly remit to the other, by wire transfer of
immediately available funds, the amount of such error with no interest thereon.




                                   ARTICLE III

                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

                  Section 3.01 Representations and Warranties of the Depositor.

                  The Depositor hereby represents, warrants and covenants to the
other parties hereto and the Securityholders that as of each Closing Date, as of
each Transfer Date and as of each Collateral Value Excess Date:

                  (a) The Depositor is a corporation duly organized, validly
         existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its
         organization and has, and had at all relevant times, full power to own
         its property, to carry on its business as currently conducted, to enter
         into and perform its obligations under each Basic Document to which it
         is a party;

                  (b) The execution and delivery by the Depositor of each Basic
         Document to which the Depositor is a party and its performance of and
         compliance with all of the terms thereof will not violate the
         Depositor's organizational documents or constitute a default (or an
         event which, with notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute a
         default) under, or result in the breach or acceleration of, any
         material contract, agreement or other instrument to which the Depositor
         is a party or which are applicable to the Depositor or any of its
         assets;


                                      -42-
<PAGE>   48
                  (c) The Depositor has the full power and authority to enter
         into and consummate the transactions contemplated by each Basic
         Document to which the Depositor is a party, has duly authorized the
         execution, delivery and performance of each Basic Document to which it
         is a party and has duly executed and delivered each Basic Document to
         which it is a party. Each Basic Document to which it is a party,
         assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the other party
         or parties thereto, constitutes a valid, legal and binding obligation
         of the Depositor, enforceable against it in accordance with the terms
         thereof, except as such enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy,
         insolvency, reorganization, receivership, moratorium or other similar
         laws relating to or affecting the rights of creditors generally, and by
         general equity principles (regardless of whether such enforcement is
         considered in a proceeding in equity or at law);

                  (d) The Depositor is not in violation of, and the execution
         and delivery by the Depositor of each Basic Document to which the
         Depositor is a party and its performance and compliance with the terms
         of each Basic Document to which the Depositor is a party will not
         constitute a violation with respect to, any order or decree of any
         court or any order or regulation of any federal, state, municipal or
         governmental agency having jurisdiction, which violation would
         materially and adversely affect the condition (financial or otherwise)
         or operations of the Depositor or any of its properties or materially
         and adversely affect the performance of any of its duties hereunder;

                  (e) There are no actions or proceedings against, or
         investigations of, the Depositor currently pending with regard to which
         the Depositor has received service of process and no action or
         proceeding against, or investigation of, the Depositor is, to the
         knowledge of the Depositor, threatened or otherwise pending before any
         court, administrative agency or other tribunal that (A) if determined
         adversely to the Depositor, would prohibit its entering into any of the
         Basic Documents to which it is a party or render the Securities
         invalid, (B) seek to prevent the issuance of the Securities or the
         consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by any of the
         Basic Documents to which it is a party or (C) if determined adversely
         to the Depositor, would prohibit or materially and adversely affect the
         performance by the Depositor of its obligations under, or the validity
         or enforceability of, any of the Basic Documents to which it is a party
         or the Securities;

                  (f) No consent, approval, authorization or order of any court
         or governmental agency or body is required for the execution, delivery
         and performance by the Depositor of, or compliance by the Depositor
         with, any of the Basic Documents to which the Depositor is a party or
         the Securities, or for the consummation of the transactions
         contemplated by any of the Basic Documents to which the Depositor is a
         party, except for such consents, approvals, authorizations and orders,
         if any, that have been obtained prior to such date;

                  (g) The Depositor is solvent, is able to pay its debts as they
         become due and has capital sufficient to carry on its business and its
         obligations hereunder; it will not be rendered insolvent by the
         execution and delivery of any of the Basic Documents to


                                      -43-
<PAGE>   49
         which it is a party or the assumption of any of its obligations
         thereunder; no petition of bankruptcy (or similar insolvency
         proceeding) has been filed by or against the Depositor;

                  (h) The Depositor did not sell the Loans sold thereon to the
         Trust with any intent to hinder, delay or defraud any of its creditors;
         nor will the Depositor be rendered insolvent as a result of such sale;

                  (i) The Depositor had good title to, and was the sole owner
         of, each Loan sold thereon free and clear of any lien other than any
         such lien released simultaneously with the sale contemplated herein,
         and, immediately upon each transfer and assignment herein contemplated,
         the Depositor will have delivered to the Trust good title to, and the
         Trust will be the sole owner of, each Loan transferred thereon free and
         clear of any lien;

                  (j) The Depositor acquired title to each of the Loans sold
         thereon in good faith, without notice of any adverse claim;

                  (k) None of the Basic Documents to which the Depositor is a
         party, nor any Officer's Certificate, statement, report or other
         document prepared by the Depositor and furnished or to be furnished by
         it pursuant to any of the Basic Documents to which it is a party or in
         connection with the transactions contemplated thereby contains any
         untrue statement of material fact or omits to state a material fact
         necessary to make the statements contained herein or therein not
         misleading;

                  (l) The Depositor is not required to be registered as an
         "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as
         amended;

                  (m) The transfer, assignment and conveyance of the Loans by
         the Depositor thereon pursuant to this Agreement is not subject to the
         bulk transfer laws or any similar statutory provisions in effect in any
         applicable jurisdiction;

                  (n) The Depositor's principal place of business and chief
         executive offices are located at 10790 Rancho Bernardo Rd., San Diego,
         CA 92127; and

                  (o) The Depositor covenants that during the continuance of
         this Agreement it will comply in all respects with the provisions of
         its organizational documents in effect from time to time.

                  Section 3.02 Representations and Warranties of the Loan
                               Originators.

                  Each Loan Originator hereby represents and warrants to the
other parties hereto and the Securityholders that as of the Closing Date, as of
each Transfer Date and as of each Collateral Value Excess Date:


                                      -44-
<PAGE>   50
                  (a) The Loan Originator is a corporation duly organized,
         validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the
         jurisdiction of its organization and the Loan Originator or other
         Person who originated a Loan on behalf of such Loan Originator (i) is
         duly qualified, in good standing and licensed to carry on its business
         in each state where any Mortgaged Property relating to a Loan that it
         originated is located and (ii) is in compliance with the laws of any
         such jurisdiction, in both cases, to the extent necessary to ensure the
         enforceability of the Loans in accordance with the terms thereof and
         had at all relevant times, full corporate power to originate the Loans,
         to own its property, to carry on its business as currently conducted
         and to enter into and perform its obligations under each Basic Document
         to which it is a party;

                  (b) The execution and delivery by the Loan Originator of each
         Basic Document to which it is a party and its performance of and
         compliance with the terms thereof will not violate the Loan
         Originator's articles of organization or by-laws or constitute a
         default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time, or both,
         would constitute a default) under, or result in the breach or
         acceleration of, any contract, agreement or other instrument to which
         the Loan Originator is a party or which may be applicable to the Loan
         Originator or any of its assets;

                  (c) The Loan Originator has the full power and authority to
         enter into and consummate all transactions contemplated by the Basic
         Documents to be consummated by it, has duly authorized the execution,
         delivery and performance of each Basic Document to which it is a party
         and has duly executed and delivered each Basic Document to which it is
         a party. Each Basic Document to which it is a party, assuming due
         authorization, execution and delivery by each of the other parties
         thereto, constitutes a valid, legal and binding obligation of the Loan
         Originator, enforceable against it in accordance with the terms hereof,
         except as such enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency,
         reorganization, receivership, moratorium or other similar laws relating
         to or affecting the rights of creditors generally, and by general
         equity principles (regardless of whether such enforcement is considered
         in a proceeding in equity or at law);

                  (d) The Loan Originator is not in violation of, and the
         execution and delivery of each Basic Document to which it is a party by
         the Loan Originator and its performance and compliance with the terms
         of each Basic Document to which it is a party will not constitute a
         violation with respect to, any order or decree of any court or any
         order or regulation of any federal, state, municipal or governmental
         agency having jurisdiction, which violation would materially and
         adversely affect the condition (financial or otherwise) or operations
         of the Loan Originator or its properties or materially and adversely
         affect the performance of its duties under any Basic Document to which
         it is a party;

                  (e) There are no actions or proceedings against, or
         investigations of, the Loan Originator currently pending with regard to
         which the Loan Originator has received service of process and no action
         or proceeding against, or investigation of, the Loan Originator is, to
         the knowledge of the Loan Originator, threatened or otherwise


                                      -45-
<PAGE>   51
         pending before any court, administrative agency or other tribunal that
         (A) if determined adversely to the Loan Originator, would prohibit its
         entering into any Basic Document to which it is a party or render the
         Securities invalid, (B) seek to prevent the issuance of the Securities
         or the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by any
         Basic Document to which it is a party or (C) if determined adversely to
         the Loan Originator, would prohibit or materially and adversely affect
         the sale of the Loans to the Depositor, the performance by the Loan
         Originator of its obligations under, or the validity or enforceability
         of, any Basic Document to which it is a party or the Securities;

                  (f) No consent, approval, authorization or order of any court
         or governmental agency or body is required for: (1) the execution,
         delivery and performance by the Loan Originator of, or compliance by
         the Loan Originator with, any Basic Document to which it is a party,
         (2) the issuance of the Securities, (3) the sale of the Loans under the
         Loan Purchase Agreement (to the extent such Loan Originator is a party
         thereto), (4) the sale by ANB and ABC, respectively, of the Loans under
         this Agreement, or (5) the consummation of the transactions required of
         it by any Basic Document to which it is a party, except such as shall
         have been obtained before such date;

                  (g) Immediately prior to the Transfer Date related thereto,
         the Loan Originator had good title to the Loans sold on such Transfer
         Date without notice of any adverse claim;

                  (h) The information, reports, financial statements, exhibits
         and schedules furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Loan
         Originator to the Initial Noteholder in connection with the
         negotiation, preparation or delivery of the Basic Documents to which it
         is a party or delivered pursuant thereto, when taken as a whole, do not
         contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state any
         material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the
         circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. All written
         information furnished after the date hereof by or on behalf of the Loan
         Originator to the Initial Noteholder in connection with the Basic
         Documents to which it is a party and the transactions contemplated
         thereby will be true, complete and accurate in every material respect,
         or (in the case of projections) based on reasonable estimates, on the
         date as of which such information is stated or certified;

                  (i) The Loan Originator is solvent, is able to pay its debts
         as they become due and has capital sufficient to carry on its business
         and its obligations under each Basic Document to which it is a party;
         it will not be rendered insolvent by the execution and delivery of this
         Agreement or by the performance of its obligations under each Basic
         Document to which it is a party; no petition of bankruptcy (or similar
         insolvency proceeding) has been filed by or against the Loan Originator
         prior to the date hereof;

                  (j) Each Loan Originator has transferred the Loans transferred
         on or prior to such Transfer Date without any intent to hinder, delay
         or defraud any of its creditors;


                                      -46-
<PAGE>   52
                  (k)      Each Loan Originator has received fair consideration
         and reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the Loans they sold on
         such Transfer Date;

                  (l)      (i) Advanta National Bank's principal place of
         business and chief executive offices are located at One Righter
         Parkway, Wilmington, Delaware 19803; (ii) Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA's
         principal place of business and chief executive offices are located at
         Welsh & McKean Roads, P.O. Box 844, Spring House, Pennsylvania 19477;
         and (iii) Advanta Bank Corp.'s principal place of business and chief
         executive offices are located at 11850 South Election Drive, Draper,
         Utah, 84020;

                  (m)      With respect to ANB and ABC only, such party is an
         "insured depository institution" (within the meaning of Section
         1813(c)(2) of Title 12 of the United States Code) and accordingly,
         makes the following additional representations and warranties:

                           (1) the Basic Documents do not violate any statutory
         or regulatory requirements applicable to such party;

                           (2) the Basic Documents have been (i) executed
         contemporaneously with the definitive agreement reached by such party
         and the parties to the Basic Documents, (ii) approved by a specific
         resolution by such party's board of directors, which approval shall be
         reflected in the minutes of said board, and (iii) entered into the
         official records of such party, a copy of which approvals, certified by
         a Secretary, Assistant Secretary, vice president or higher officer of
         such party, has been provided to the Issuer;

                           (3) the aggregate amount of the Sales Price of all
         Loans conveyed on each Transfer Date by such party to the Issuer does
         not exceed any restrictions or limitations imposed by the board of
         directors of such party;

                           (4) ANB and ABC are each at least Adequately
         Capitalized.

                  It is understood and agreed that the representations and
warranties set forth in this Section 3.02 shall survive delivery of the
respective Custodial Loan Files to the Custodian (as the agent of the Indenture
Trustee) and shall inure to the benefit of the Securityholders, the Depositor,
the Servicer, the Indenture Trustee, the Owner Trustee and the Issuer. Upon
discovery by any Loan Originator, the Depositor, the Servicer, the Indenture
Trustee or the Trust of a breach of any of the foregoing representations and
warranties that materially and adversely affects the value of any Loan or the
interests of the Securityholders therein, the party discovering such breach
shall give prompt written notice (but in no event later than two Business Days
following such discovery) to the other parties. The obligations of the Loan
Originator set forth in Sections 2.05 and 3.06 hereof to cure any breach or to
substitute for or repurchase an affected Loan shall constitute the sole remedies
available hereunder to the Securityholders, the Depositor, the Servicer, the
Indenture Trustee or the Trust respecting a breach of the representations and
warranties contained in this Section 3.02. The fact that the Initial Noteholder
has conducted or has failed to conduct any partial or complete due diligence


                                      -47-
<PAGE>   53
investigation of the Loan Files shall not affect the Securityholders' rights to
demand repurchase or substitution as provided under this Agreement.

                  Section 3.03 Representations, Warranties and Covenants of the
                               Servicer.

                  The Servicer hereby represents and warrants to and covenants
with the other parties hereto and the Securityholders that as of each Closing
Date, as of each Transfer Date and as of each Collateral Value Excess Date:

                  (a) The Servicer is a corporation duly organized, validly
         existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware
         and (i) is duly qualified, in good standing and licensed to carry on
         its business in each state where any Mortgaged Property is located, and
         (ii) is in compliance with the laws of any such state, in both cases,
         to the extent necessary to ensure the enforceability of the Loans in
         accordance with the terms thereof and to perform its duties under each
         Basic Document to which it is a party and had at all relevant times,
         full corporate power to own its property, to carry on its business as
         currently conducted, to service the Loans and to enter into and perform
         its obligations under each Basic Document to which it is a party;

                  (b) The execution and delivery by the Servicer of each Basic
         Document to which it is a party and its performance of and compliance
         with the terms thereof will not violate the Servicer's articles of
         incorporation or by-laws or constitute a default (or an event which,
         with notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default)
         under, or result in the breach or acceleration of, any material
         contract, agreement or other instrument to which the Servicer is a
         party or which are applicable to the Servicer or any of its assets;

                  (c) The Servicer has the full power and authority to enter
         into and consummate all transactions contemplated by each Basic
         Document to which it is a party, has duly authorized the execution,
         delivery and performance of each Basic Document to which it is a party
         and has duly executed and delivered each Basic Document to which it is
         a party. Each Basic Document to which it is a party, assuming due
         authorization, execution and delivery by each of the other parties
         thereto, constitutes a valid, legal and binding obligation of the
         Servicer, enforceable against it in accordance with the terms hereof,
         except as such enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency,
         reorganization, receivership, moratorium or other similar laws relating
         to or affecting the rights of creditors generally, and by general
         equity principles (regardless of whether such enforcement is considered
         in a proceeding in equity or at law);

                  (d) The Servicer is not in violation of, and the execution and
         delivery of each Basic Document to which it is a party by the Servicer
         and its performance and compliance with the terms of each Basic
         Document to which it is a party will not constitute a violation with
         respect to, any order or decree of any court or any order or regulation
         of any federal, state, municipal or governmental agency having
         jurisdiction, which violation would materially and adversely affect the
         condition (financial or


                                      -48-
<PAGE>   54
         otherwise) or operations of the Servicer or materially and adversely
         affect the performance of its duties under any Basic Document to which
         it is a party;

                  (e) There are no actions or proceedings against, or
         investigations of, the Servicer currently pending with regard to which
         the Servicer has received service of process and no action or
         proceeding against, or investigation of, the Servicer is, to the
         knowledge of the Servicer, threatened or otherwise pending before any
         court, administrative agency or other tribunal that (A) if determined
         adversely to the Servicer, would prohibit its entering into any Basic
         Document to which it is a party, (B) seek to prevent the consummation
         of any of the transactions contemplated by any Basic Document to which
         it is a party or (C) if determined adversely to the Servicer, would
         prohibit or materially and adversely affect the performance by the
         Servicer of its obligations under, or the validity or enforceability
         of, any Basic Document to which it is a party or the Securities;

                  (f) No consent, approval, authorization or order of any court
         or governmental agency or body is required for the execution, delivery
         and performance by the Servicer of, or compliance by the Servicer with,
         any Basic Document to which it is a party or the Securities, or for the
         consummation of the transactions contemplated by any Basic Document to
         which it is a party, except for such consents, approvals,
         authorizations and orders, if any, that have been obtained prior to
         such date;

                  (g) The information, reports, financial statements, exhibits
         and schedules furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Servicer to
         the Initial Noteholder in connection with the negotiation, preparation
         or delivery of the Basic Documents to which it is a party or delivered
         pursuant thereto, when taken as a whole, do not contain any untrue
         statement of material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary
         to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under
         which they were made, not misleading. All written information furnished
         after the date hereof by or on behalf of the Servicer to the Initial
         Noteholder in connection with the Basic Documents to which it is a
         party and the transactions contemplated thereby will be true, complete
         and accurate in every material respect, or (in the case of projections)
         based on reasonable estimates, on the date as of which such information
         is stated or certified;

                  (h) The Servicer is solvent and will not be rendered insolvent
         as a result of the performance of its obligations pursuant to under the
         Basic Documents to which it is a party;

                  (i) The Servicer acknowledges and agrees that the Servicing
         Fee represents reasonable compensation for the performance of its
         services hereunder and that the entire Servicing Fee shall be treated
         by the Servicer, for accounting purposes, as compensation for the
         servicing and administration of the Loans pursuant to this Agreement;
         and


                                      -49-
<PAGE>   55
                  (j) The Servicer is an Eligible Servicer and covenants to
         remain an Eligible Servicer or, if not an Eligible Servicer, each
         Subservicer is an Eligible Servicer and the Servicer covenants to cause
         each Subservicer to be an Eligible Servicer.

                  It is understood and agreed that the representations,
warranties and covenants set forth in this Section 3.03 shall survive delivery
of the respective Custodial Loan Files to the Indenture Trustee or the Custodian
on its behalf and shall inure to the benefit of the Depositor, the
Securityholders, the Indenture Trustee and the Issuer. Upon discovery by any of
the Loan Originators, the Depositor, the Servicer, the Indenture Trustee, the
Owner Trustee or the Issuer of a breach of any of the foregoing representations,
warranties and covenants that materially and adversely affects the value of any
Loans or the interests of the Securityholders therein, the party discovering
such breach shall give prompt written notice (but in no event later than two
Business Days following such discovery) to the other parties. The fact that the
Initial Noteholder has conducted or has failed to conduct any partial or
complete due diligence investigation shall not affect the Securityholders'
rights to exercise their remedies as provided under this Agreement.

                  Section 3.04 Representations and Warranties of the Transfer
                               Obligor.

                  The Transfer Obligor hereby represents, warrants and covenants
to the other parties hereto and the Securityholders that as of each Closing
Date, as of each Transfer Date and as of each Collateral Value Excess Date:

                  (a) The Transfer Obligor is a corporation duly organized,
         validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the
         jurisdiction of its organization and has, and had at all relevant
         times, full power to own its property, to carry on its business as
         currently conducted, to enter into and perform its obligations under
         each Basic Document to which it is a party;

                  (b) The execution and delivery of each Basic Document to which
         it is a party and its performance of and compliance with all of the
         terms thereof will not violate the Transfer Obligor's articles of
         incorporation or by-laws or constitute a default (or an event which,
         with notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default)
         under, or result in the breach or acceleration of, any material
         contract, agreement or other instrument to which the Transfer Obligor
         is a party or which is applicable to the Transfer Obligor or any of its
         material assets;

                  (c) The Transfer Obligor has the full power and authority to
         enter into and consummate the transactions contemplated by each Basic
         Document to which it is a party, has duly authorized the execution,
         delivery and performance of each Basic Document to which it is a party
         and has duly executed and delivered each Basic Document to which it is
         a party. Each Basic Document to which it is a party, assuming due
         authorization, execution and delivery by the other party or parties
         thereto, constitutes a valid, legal and binding obligation of the
         Transfer Obligor, enforceable against it in accordance with the terms
         thereof, except as such enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy,
         insolvency, reorganization, receivership, moratorium or other


                                      -50-
<PAGE>   56
         similar laws relating to or affecting the rights of creditors
         generally, and by general equity principles (regardless of whether such
         enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law);

                  (d) The Transfer Obligor is not in violation of, and the
         execution and delivery of each Basic Document to which it is a party by
         the Transfer Obligor and its performance and compliance with the terms
         of each Basic Document to which it is a party will not constitute a
         violation with respect to, any order or decree of any court or any
         order or regulation of any federal, state, municipal or governmental
         agency having jurisdiction, which violation would materially and
         adversely affect the condition (financial or otherwise) or operations
         of the Transfer Obligor or its properties or materially and adversely
         affect the performance of its duties hereunder;

                  (e) There are no actions or proceedings against, or
         investigations of, the Transfer Obligor currently pending with regard
         to which the Transfer Obligor has received service of process and no
         action or proceeding against, or investigation of, the Transfer Obligor
         is, to the knowledge of the Transfer Obligor, threatened or otherwise
         pending before any court, administrative agency or other tribunal that
         (A) if determined adversely to the Transfer Obligor, would prohibit its
         entering into any of the Basic Documents to which it is a party or
         render the Securities invalid, (B) seek to prevent the issuance of the
         Securities or the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated
         by any of the Basic Documents to which it is a party or (C) if
         determined adversely to the Transfer Obligor, would prohibit or
         materially and adversely affect the performance by the Transfer Obligor
         of its obligations under, or the validity or enforceability of, any of
         the Basic Documents to which it is a party or the Securities;

                  (f) No consent, approval, authorization or order of any court
         or governmental agency or body is required for the execution, delivery
         and performance by the Transfer Obligor of, or compliance by the
         Transfer Obligor with, any of the Basic Documents to which it is a
         party or the Securities, or for the consummation of the transactions
         contemplated by any of the Basic Documents to which it is a party,
         except for such consents, approvals, authorizations and orders, if any,
         that have been obtained prior to the such date;

                  (g) The Transfer Obligor is solvent, is able to pay its debts
         as they become due and has capital sufficient to carry on its business
         and its obligations hereunder; it will not be rendered insolvent by the
         execution and delivery of any of the Basic Documents to which it is a
         party or the assumption of any of its obligations thereunder; no
         petition of bankruptcy (or similar insolvency proceeding) has been
         filed by or against the Transfer Obligor; and

                  (h) None of the Basic Documents to which it is a party, nor
         any Officer's Certificate, statement, report or other document prepared
         by the Transfer Obligor and furnished or to be furnished by it pursuant
         to any of the Basic Documents to which it is a party or in connection
         with the transactions contemplated thereby contains any untrue


                                      -51-
<PAGE>   57
         statement of material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary
         to make the statements contained herein or therein not misleading.

                  Section 3.05 Representations and Warranties Regarding Loans.

                  The Loan Originator which sold the related Loan hereby makes
the representations and warranties set forth in Annex 1 hereto to the other
parties hereto and the Securityholders, with respect to each such Loan as of the
related Transfer Date (except as otherwise expressly agreed in writing by the
Majority Noteholders).

                  Section 3.06 Repurchase and Substitution.

                  (a) It is understood and agreed that the representations and
warranties referenced in Annex 1 hereto shall survive the conveyance of the
Loans to the Indenture Trustee on behalf of the Issuer, and the delivery of the
Securities to the Securityholders. Upon discovery by the Depositor, the
Servicer, the Loan Originators, the Custodian, the Issuer, the Indenture Trustee
or any Securityholder of a breach of any of such representations and warranties
or the representations and warranties of the Loan Originators set forth in
Section 3.02 which materially and adversely affects the value of the Loans or
the interests of the Securityholders in the related Loan (notwithstanding that
such representation and warranty was made to the related Loan Originator's best
knowledge) or which, as a result of the attributes of the aggregate Loan Pool,
constitutes a breach of the representations and warranties set forth in Annex 1,
the party discovering such breach shall give prompt written notice to the
others. The related Loan Originator shall within 5 Business Days of any breach
of a representation or warranty, promptly cure such breach in all material
respects. If within 5 Business Days after the earlier of the related Loan
Originator's discovery of such breach or the related Loan Originator's receiving
notice thereof such breach has not been remedied by the related Loan Originator
and such breach materially and adversely affects the interests of the
Securityholders or in the related Loan (the "Unqualified Loan"), the related
Loan Originator shall promptly either (i) remove such Unqualified Loan from the
Trust (in which case it shall become a Deleted Loan) and substitute one or more
Qualified Substitute Loans in the manner and subject to the conditions set forth
in this Section 3.06 or (ii) repurchase such Unqualified Loan at a purchase
price equal to the Repurchase Price with respect to such Unqualified Loan by
depositing such Repurchase Price in the Collection Account; provided, however,
that if there is not an Overcollateralization Shortfall on the date of such
repurchase (after giving effect to such repurchase) the Loan Originator shall
remit the Alternate Repurchase Price in accordance with Section 5.01(c)(4)(i).
The related Loan Originator shall provide the Servicer, the Indenture Trustee,
the Initial Noteholder and the Issuer with a certification of a Responsible
Officer on the Determination Date next succeeding the end of such 5 Business
Days period indicating whether the related Loan Originator is purchasing the
Unqualified Loan or substituting in lieu of such Unqualified Loan a Qualified
Substitute Loan. To the extent that a Wet Funded Loan is repurchased by the
related Loan Originator by means of a withdrawal of the Sales Price therefor
from the Reserve Account and distribution of such amount to the Noteholders, the
related Loan Originator shall pay an additional amount equal to the Note
Interest Rate on the Principal Balance of such Wet Loan, computed for the period
of time that the Wet Funded


                                      -52-
<PAGE>   58
Loan was included in the Trust Estate; and the amount so withdrawn and such
additional amount shall constitute the Repurchase Price of such Wet Funded Loan.

                  Any substitution of Loans pursuant to this Section 3.06(a)
shall be accompanied by payment by the related Loan Originator of the
Substitution Adjustment, if any, to be deposited in the Collection Account
pursuant to Section 5.01(b)(1) hereof.

                  It is understood and agreed that the obligation of the Loan
Originator to repurchase or substitute any such Loan pursuant to this Section
3.06 shall constitute the sole remedy against it with respect to such breach of
the foregoing representations or warranties or the existence of the foregoing
conditions.

                  (b) As to any Deleted Loan for which the related Loan
Originator substitutes a Qualified Substitute Loan or Loans, the related Loan
Originator shall effect such substitution by delivering (i) to the Indenture
Trustee and Initial Noteholder a certification executed by a Responsible Officer
of the related Loan Originator to the effect that the Substitution Adjustment,
if any, has been remitted to the Noteholders or, if an Overcollateralization
Shortfall exists on the date of substitution (after giving effect to such
substitution), credited to the Collection Account and (ii) to the Custodian the
documents constituting the Custodial Loan File for such Qualified Substitute
Loan or Loans.

                  The Servicer shall deposit in the Collection Account all
payments received in connection with such Qualified Substitute Loan or Loans
after the date of such substitution. Monthly Payments received with respect to
Qualified Substitute Loans on or before the date of substitution will be
retained by the related Loan Originator. The Issuer will be entitled to all
payments received on the Deleted Loan on or before the date of substitution and
the related Loan Originator shall thereafter be entitled to retain all amounts
subsequently received in respect of such Deleted Loan. The Servicer shall give
written notice to the Issuer, the Indenture Trustee and Initial Noteholder that
such substitution has taken place and the Servicer shall amend the Loan Schedule
to reflect (i) the removal of such Deleted Loan from the terms of this Agreement
and (ii) the substitution of the Qualified Substitute Loan. The related Loan
Originator shall promptly deliver to the Issuer, the Servicer, the Indenture
Trustee and Initial Noteholder, a copy of the amended Loan Schedule. Upon such
substitution, such Qualified Substitute Loan or Loans shall be subject to the
terms of this Agreement in all respects, and the related Loan Originator shall
be deemed to have made, as of the date of substitution, the covenants,
representations and warranties set forth in Section 3.05 hereof with respect to
such Qualified Substitute Loan or Loans. On the date of such substitution, the
Servicer shall cause the Indenture Trustee to release the Deleted Loan from the
lien of the Indenture and the Servicer will cause such Qualified Substitute Loan
to be pledged to the Indenture Trustee under the Indenture as part of the Trust
Estate.

                  (c) With respect to all Unqualified Loans or other Loans
repurchased by the related Loan Originator pursuant to this Agreement, upon the
deposit of the Repurchase Price therefor into the Collection Account or, if
there is not an Overcollateralization Shortfall on the date of such repurchase
(after giving effect to such repurchase) upon the remittance of the Alternate
Repurchase Price by the Loan Originator in accordance with Section
5.01(c)(4)(i),


                                      -53-
<PAGE>   59
the Indenture Trustee shall assign to the related Loan Originator, without
recourse, representation or warranty, all the Indenture Trustee's right, title
and interest in and to such Unqualified Loans or Loans, which right, title and
interest were conveyed to the Indenture Trustee pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof.
The Indenture Trustee shall, at the expense of the related Loan Originator, take
any actions as shall be reasonably requested by the related Loan Originator to
effect the repurchase of any such Loans.

                  (d) It is understood and agreed that the obligations of the
related Loan Originator set forth in this Section 3.06 to cure, repurchase or
substitute for an Unqualified Loan constitute the sole remedies hereunder of the
Depositor, the Issuer, the Indenture Trustee, the Owner Trustee and the
Securityholders respecting a breach of the representations and warranties
contained in Section 3.05 hereof. Any cause of action against the related Loan
Originator relating to or arising out of a defect in a Custodial Loan File as
contemplated by Section 2.05 hereof or against the related Loan Originator
relating to or arising out of a breach of any representations and warranties
made in Section 3.05 hereof shall accrue as to any Loan upon (i) discovery of
such defect or breach by any party and notice thereof to the related Loan
Originator, (ii) failure by the related Loan Originator to cure such defect or
breach or purchase or substitute such Loan as specified above, and (iii) demand
upon the related Loan Originator, as applicable, by the Issuer or the Majority
Noteholders for all amounts payable in respect of such Loan.

                  (e) Neither the Issuer nor the Indenture Trustee shall have
any duty to conduct any affirmative investigation other than as specifically set
forth in this Agreement as to the occurrence of any condition requiring the
repurchase or substitution of any Loan pursuant to this Section or the
eligibility of any Loan for purposes of this Agreement.

                  Section 3.07 Dispositions.

                  (a) (i) In consideration of the consideration received from
the Depositor under the Loan Purchase Agreement, and, with respect to ANB and
ABC, from the Issuer hereunder, each Loan Originator hereby agrees and covenants
that in connection with each Disposition it shall effect the following at the
direction of the Disposition Agent with respect to the Loans it sold to the
Issuer:

                  (A) make such representations and warranties concerning the
         Loans as of the "cutoff date" of the related Disposition to the
         Disposition Participants as may be necessary to effect the Disposition
         and such additional representations and warranties as may be necessary,
         in the reasonable opinion of any of the Disposition Participants, to
         effect such Disposition; provided, that no Loan Originator shall be
         required to make any representation or warranty beyond the scope or
         substance of the representations and warranties delineated herein; and
         provided further that, to the extent that a Loan Originator has at the
         time of the Disposition actual knowledge of any facts or circumstances
         that would render any of such representations and warranties materially
         false, such Loan Originator may notify the Disposition Participants of
         such facts or circumstances and, in such event, shall have no
         obligation to make such materially false representation and warranty;


                                      -54-
<PAGE>   60
                  (B) supply such information, opinions of counsel, letters from
         law and/or accounting firms and other documentation and certificates
         regarding the origination of the Loans as any Disposition Participant
         shall reasonably request to effect a Disposition and enter into such
         indemnification agreements customary for such transaction relating to
         or in connection with the Disposition as the Disposition Agent may
         reasonably require;

                  (C) make itself available for and engage in good faith
         consultation with the Disposition Participants concerning information
         to be contained in any document, agreement, private placement
         memorandum, or filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission
         relating to the Loan Originator or the Loans in connection with a
         Disposition and shall use reasonable efforts to compile any information
         and prepare any reports and certificates, into a form, whether written
         or electronic, suitable for inclusion in such documentation;

                  (D) to implement the foregoing and to otherwise effect a
         Disposition, enter into, or cause its Affiliates to enter into
         insurance and indemnity agreements, underwriting or placement
         agreements, servicing agreements, purchase agreements and any other
         documentation which may be required of or deemed appropriate by the
         Disposition Participants in order to effect a Disposition; and

                  (E) take such further actions as may be reasonably necessary
         to effect the foregoing.

provided, that notwithstanding anything to the contrary, (a) the Loan
Originators shall have no liability for the Loans arising from or relating to
the ongoing ability of the related Borrowers to pay under the Loans; (b) none of
the indemnities hereunder shall constitute an unconditional guarantee by the
Loan Originators of collectibility of the Loans; (c) the Loan Originators shall
have no obligation with respect to the financial inability of any Borrower to
pay principal, interest or other amount owing by such Borrower under a Loan; and
(d) the Loan Originators shall only be required to enter into documentation in
connection with Dispositions that is consistent with the prior public
securitizations of affiliates of the Loan Originators, provided that to the
extent an Affiliate of the Initial Noteholder acts as "depositor" or performs a
similar function in a Securitization, additional indemnities and informational
representations and warranties are provided which are consistent with those in
the Basic Documents and may upon request of the Loan Originators be set forth in
a separate agreement between an Affiliate of the Initial Noteholder and the Loan
Originators.

                  (ii) In connection with Dispositions the Loan Originators (A)
         may participate as a concurrent bidder for the Loans subject to such
         Whole Loan Sale, but may not pay a price higher than the fair market
         value thereof (as determined by the Market Value Agent), and (B) shall
         retain such underwriters or sales agents as shall be agreed in writing
         between the Servicer and the Initial Noteholder.

                  (iii) Conditions to Dispositions. The following conditions
         shall apply to all Dispositions:


                                      -55-
<PAGE>   61
                  (A)      As long as no Event of Default or Default shall have
occurred and be continuing under the Sale and Servicing Agreement or the
Indenture, the Servicer shall continue to service the Loans included in any
Disposition.

                  (B)      During a Termination Period, the Loan Originators,
the Issuer and the Depositor shall use commercially reasonable efforts to effect
a Disposition at the direction of the Disposition Agent prior to the expiration
of the Termination Period.

                  (b)      In accordance with the terms of Section 3.07(a),
Section 2.01(a)(vi) or upon the exercise of the Put Option, the Issuer shall
effect Dispositions at the direction of the Disposition Agent. In connection
therewith, the Trust agrees to assist the Loan Originators in such Dispositions
and accordingly it shall, at the request and direction of the Disposition Agent:

                  (i)      transfer, deliver and sell all or a portion of the
                           Loans, as of the "cutoff dates" of the related
                           Dispositions, to such Disposition Participants as may
                           be necessary to effect the Dispositions; provided,
                           that any such sale shall be for "fair market value,"
                           as determined by the Disposition Agent in its
                           reasonable discretion;

                  (ii)     deposit the cash Disposition Proceeds into the
                           Collection Account pursuant to Section 5.01(b)(1) or
                           otherwise remit the Disposition Proceeds in
                           accordance with Section 5.01(c)(4)(ii) and retain any
                           Retained Securities created in any Securitizations in
                           accordance with the terms of this Agreement or as
                           otherwise directed in writing by the Noteholders of
                           100% of the outstanding Notes;

                  (iii)    to the extent that a Securitization creates any
                           Retained Securities, to accept such Retained
                           Securities as a part of the Disposition Proceeds; and

                  (iv)     take such further actions as may be reasonably
                           necessary to effect such Dispositions.

                  (c)      The Servicer hereby covenants that it will take such
actions as may be reasonably necessary to effect Dispositions as the Disposition
Agent may request and direct, including without limitation providing the Loan
Originators and Disposition Participants such information as may be required to
make representations and warranties required of them hereunder.

                  (d)      The right of the Disposition Agent to require the
Issuer and the Loan Originators to effect Dispositions is subject to the
conditions set forth in Section 3.07(a).

                  (e)      The Disposition Agent may effect Whole Loan Sales
upon written notice to the Servicer of its intent to cause the Issuer to effect
a Whole Loan Sale at least 5 Business Days in advance thereof. The Disposition
Agent shall serve as agent for Whole Loan Sales and will receive a reasonable
fee for such services provided that no such fee shall be payable if


                                      -56-
<PAGE>   62
the Loan Originator or its Affiliates purchase such Loans, and no Event of
Default or Default shall have occurred. The Loan Originator or its Affiliates
may concurrently bid to purchase Loans in a Whole Loan Sale; however, it shall
not pay a price in excess of the fair market value thereof as reasonably
determined by the Market Value Agent.

                  (f)      The parties' obligations under this Section 3.07
shall continue notwithstanding the occurrence of an Event of Default.

                  (g)      The Disposition Agent (and the Majority Noteholders
to the extent directing the Disposition Agent) shall be an independent
contractor to the Issuer and shall have no fiduciary obligations to the Issuer
or any of its affiliates. In that connection, the Disposition Agent shall not be
liable for any error of judgment made in good faith and shall not be liable with
respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in the performance
of its duties.

                  (h)      In the event there is a Disposition with respect to
some but not all of the Loans then subject to this Agreement, the Disposition
Agent may select the Loans to be included in such Disposition using the
following criteria selection:

                           (i)      aggregate Loan Balance;

                           (ii)     type of loan (fixed, ARM, intermediate or
                                    HELOC Mortgage Loan);

                           (iii)    LTV;

                           (iv)     average Loan Balance;

                           (v)      production channel;

                           (vi)     lien position; or

                           (vii)    loan originator;

provided that in the event that the Disposition Agent shall select Loans using
any criteria listed above such that fewer than all Loans meeting any selection
criteria are selected, such selection shall be based upon the Transfer Date of
each Loan, commencing with the earliest Transfer Date, and progressing to the
most recent Transfer Date (commonly referred to as the "first in/first out
method").


                                      -57-
<PAGE>   63
                  Section 3.08 Loan Originator Put; Servicer Call.

                  (a) Loan Originator Put. The related Loan Originator shall
promptly repurchase, upon the written demand of the Majority Noteholders, any
Put/Call Loan originated by such Loan Originator; provided, however, that such
Loan Originator shall only be required to repurchase such Put/Call Loan whenever
the limits set forth in the definition of Performance Trigger shall have been
exceeded.

                  (b) Servicer Call. The Servicer may repurchase any Put/Call
Loan at any time. Such Servicer Calls shall be solely at the option of the
Servicer. Prior to exercising a Servicer Call, the Servicer shall deliver
written notice to the Majority Noteholders and the Indenture Trustee which
notice shall identify each Loan to be repurchased and the Repurchase Price or
Alternate Repurchase Price therefor, as applicable.

                  (c) In connection with each Loan Originator Put, the related
Loan Originator shall deposit such Repurchase Price for the Loans to be
repurchased in the Collection Account; provided, however, that if there is not
an Overcollateralization Shortfall on the date of such repurchase (after giving
effect to such repurchase) the Loan Originator shall remit the Alternate
Repurchase Price in accordance with Section 5.01(c)(4)(i). In connection with
each Servicer Call, the Servicer shall deposit such Repurchase Price for the
Loans to be repurchased in the Collection Account; provided, however, that if
there is not an Overcollateralization Shortfall on the date of such repurchase
(after giving effect to such repurchase) the Loan Originator shall remit the
Alternate Repurchase Price in accordance with Section 5.01(c)(4)(i). The
aggregate Repurchase Price of all Loans transferred pursuant to Section 3.08(a)
shall in no event exceed the Unfunded Transfer Obligation at the time of such
Loan Originator Put.

                  Section 3.09 Modification of Underwriting Guidelines.

         The Servicer shall give the Initial Noteholder prompt written
notification of any material modification or change to the Underwriting
Guidelines.


                                   ARTICLE IV

                    ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICING OF THE LOANS

                  Section 4.01 Duties of the Servicer.

                  (a) Acting directly or through one or more Subservicers as
provided in Section 4.03, the Servicer, as master servicer, shall service and
administer the Loans in accordance with this Agreement and on behalf of the
Indenture Trustee and the Initial Noteholder and with reasonable care, and using
that degree of skill and attention that the Servicer exercises with respect to
comparable mortgage loans that it services for itself or others, and shall have
full power and authority, acting alone, to do or cause to be done any and all
things in connection with such servicing and administration which it may deem
necessary or desirable.


                                      -58-
<PAGE>   64
                  (b) The duties of the Servicer shall include collecting and
posting of all payments, responding to inquiries of Borrowers or by federal,
state or local government authorities with respect to the Loans, investigating
delinquencies, reporting tax information to Borrowers in accordance with its
customary practices and accounting for collections and furnishing monthly and
annual statements to the Indenture Trustee and the Initial Noteholder, with
respect to distributions, making Servicing Advances pursuant hereto. The
Servicer shall follow its customary standards, policies and procedures in
performing its duties as Servicer. The Servicer shall cooperate with the
Indenture Trustee and furnish to the Indenture Trustee with reasonable
promptness information in its possession as may be necessary or appropriate to
enable the Indenture Trustee to perform its tax reporting duties hereunder. The
Indenture Trustee shall furnish the Servicer or any Subservicer with any powers
of attorney and other documents necessary or appropriate to enable the Servicer
or any Subservicer to carry out its servicing and administrative duties
hereunder.

                  (c) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Servicer (i) shall continue, and is hereby authorized and empowered by the
Indenture Trustee, to execute and deliver, on behalf of itself, the Noteholders,
the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee or any of them, any and all instruments of
satisfaction or cancellation, or of full release or discharge and all other
comparable instruments, with respect to the Loans and with respect to the
related Mortgaged Properties; (ii) may consent to any modification of the terms
of any Promissory Note not expressly prohibited hereby if the effect of any such
modification will not be to affect materially and adversely the security
afforded by the related Mortgaged Property, the timing of receipt of any
payments required hereby or the interests of the Indenture Trustee or
Noteholders.

                  (d) The Servicer shall have the right using that degree of
skill and attention that the Servicer exercises with respect to comparable
mortgage loans that it services for itself or others, to approve applications of
Borrowers for consent to (i) partial releases of Mortgages, (ii) alterations to
Mortgaged Properties and (iii) removal, demolition or division of Mortgaged
Properties. No application for approval shall be considered by the Servicer
unless: (x) the provisions of the related Promissory Note and Mortgage have been
complied with; (y) the Combined Loan-to-Value Ratio (which may, for this
purpose, be determined at the time of any such action in a manner reasonably
acceptable to the Majority Noteholders) and the Borrower's debt-to-income ratio
after any release does not exceed the Combined Loan-to-Value Ratio and
debt-to-income ratio applicable to such Loan at origination and (z) the lien
priority of the related Mortgage is not adversely affected; provided, however,
that the foregoing requirements (x), (y) and (z) shall not apply to any such
situation described in this paragraph if such situation results from any
condemnation or easement activity by a governmental entity.

                  (e) The Servicer may, and is hereby authorized to, perform any
of its servicing responsibilities with respect to all or certain of the Loans
through a Subservicer as it may from time to time designate, but no such
designation of a Subservicer shall serve to release the Servicer from any of its
obligations under this Agreement. Such Subservicer shall have all the rights and
powers of the Servicer with respect to such Loans under this Agreement.


                                      -59-
<PAGE>   65
                  (f) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, but
subject to Sections 4.12 and 4.13, the Servicer in its own name or in the name
of a Subservicer may be authorized and empowered pursuant to a power of attorney
executed and delivered by the Indenture Trustee to execute and deliver, and may
be authorized and empowered by the Indenture Trustee to execute and deliver, on
behalf of itself, the Noteholders, the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee or any
of them, (i) any and all instruments of satisfaction or cancellation or of
partial or full release or discharge and all other comparable instruments with
respect to the Loans and with respect to the Mortgaged Properties, (ii) to
institute foreclosure proceedings or obtain a deed in lieu of foreclosure so as
to effect ownership of any Mortgaged Property on behalf of the Indenture
Trustee, and (iii) to hold title to any Mortgaged Property upon such foreclosure
or deed in lieu of foreclosure on behalf of the Indenture Trustee; provided,
however, that Section 4.13 shall constitute a power of attorney from the
Indenture Trustee to the Servicer or any Subservicer to execute an instrument of
satisfaction (or assignment of mortgage without recourse) with respect to any
Loan paid in full (or with respect to which payment in full has been escrowed).
Subject to Sections 4.12 and 4.13, the Indenture Trustee shall furnish the
Servicer and any Subservicer with any powers of attorney and other documents as
the Servicer or such Subservicer shall reasonably request to enable the Servicer
and such Subservicer to carry out their respective servicing and administrative
duties hereunder.

                  (g) The Servicer shall give prompt notice to the Indenture
Trustee and the Initial Noteholder of any action, of which the Servicer has
actual knowledge, to (i) assert a claim against the Trust or (ii) assert
jurisdiction over the Trust.

                  (h) Servicing Advances incurred by the Servicer or any
Subservicer in connection with the servicing of the Loans (including any
penalties in connection with the payment of any taxes and assessments or other
charges) on any Mortgaged Property shall be recoverable by the Servicer or such
Subservicer to the extent described in Section 4.08.

                  (i) In the event of a Disposition or other removal of a Loan
from the Trust Estate, the Servicer shall be terminated hereunder with respect
to such Loan.

                  (j) The Servicer agrees that in the event that any Notes are
outstanding after the applicable Maturity Date, the Servicer will resign and the
Majority Noteholders shall appoint a successor in accordance with provisions of
Section 9.02. The Majority Noteholders may, by written notice to the Servicer
and the Indenture Trustee, elect to have the Servicer continue its duties
hereunder.

                  Section 4.02 Collection of Certain Loan Payments.

                  (a) The Servicer shall, to the extent such procedures shall be
consistent with this Agreement and the terms and provisions of any applicable
Mortgage Insurance Policies, follow Accepted Servicing Practices. Consistent
with the foregoing, the Servicer may in its discretion (i) waive any assumption
fees, late payment charges, charges for checks returned for insufficient funds,
prepayment fees, if any, or other fees which may be collected in the ordinary
course of servicing the Loans, (ii) if a Borrower is in default or about to be
in default


                                      -60-
<PAGE>   66
because of a Borrower's financial condition, arrange with the Borrower a
schedule for the payment of delinquent payments due on the related Loan;
provided, however, the Servicer shall not reschedule the payment of delinquent
payments more than one time in any twelve consecutive months with respect to any
Borrower.

                  (b) The Servicer shall hold in escrow on behalf of the related
Borrower all Prepaid Installments received by it, and shall apply such Prepaid
Installments as directed by such Borrower and as set forth in the related
Promissory Note.

                  Section 4.03 Subservicing Agreements Between Servicer and
                               Subservicers.

                  The Servicer may enter into Subservicing Agreements for any
servicing and administration of Loans with any institution which is in
compliance with the laws of each state necessary to enable it to perform its
obligations under such Subservicing Agreement and is an Eligible Servicer. The
Servicer shall give notice to the Indenture Trustee and the Initial Noteholder
of the appointment of any Subservicer and shall furnish to the Indenture Trustee
and the Initial Noteholder a copy of the Subservicing Agreement between the
Servicer and such unaffiliated Subservicer. For purposes of this Agreement, the
Servicer shall be deemed to have received payments on Loans when any Subservicer
has received such payments. Any such Subservicing Agreement shall be consistent
with and not violate the provisions of this Agreement.

                  Section 4.04 Successor Subservicers.

                  Upon notice to the Indenture Trustee and the Initial
Noteholder, the Servicer shall be entitled to terminate any Subservicing
Agreement in accordance with the terms and conditions of such Subservicing
Agreement and to either itself directly service the related Loans or enter into
a Subservicing Agreement with a successor Subservicer which qualifies under
Section 4.03.

                  Section 4.05 Liability of Servicer.

                  The Servicer shall not be relieved of its obligations under
this Agreement notwithstanding any Subservicing Agreement or any of the
provisions of this Agreement relating to agreements or arrangements between the
Servicer and a Subservicer or otherwise, and the Servicer shall be obligated to
the same extent and under the same terms and conditions as if it alone were
servicing and administering the Loans. The Servicer shall be entitled to enter
into any agreement with a Subservicer for indemnification of the Servicer by
such Subservicer and nothing contained in such Subservicing Agreement shall be
deemed to limit or modify this Agreement. The Trust shall not indemnify the
Servicer for any losses due to the Servicer's negligence.


                                      -61-
<PAGE>   67
                  Section 4.06 No Contractual Relationship Between Subservicer
                               and Indenture Trustee or the Securityholders.

                  Any Subservicing Agreement and any other transactions or
services relating to the Loans involving a Subservicer shall be deemed to be
between the Subservicer and the Servicer alone and no party hereto nor the
Securityholders shall be deemed parties thereto and shall have no claims,
rights, obligations, duties or liabilities with respect to any Subservicer
except as set forth in Section 4.07.

                  Section 4.07 Assumption or Termination of Subservicing
                               Agreement by Successor Servicer.

                  In connection with the assumption of the responsibilities,
duties and liabilities and of the authority, power and rights of the Servicer
hereunder by a successor Servicer pursuant to Section 9.02, it is understood and
agreed that the Servicer's rights and obligations under any Subservicing
Agreement then in force between the Servicer and a Subservicer may be assumed or
terminated by the successor Servicer at its option without the payment of any
fee (notwithstanding any contrary provision in any Subservicing Agreement).

                  The Servicer shall, upon request of the successor Servicer,
but at the expense of the Servicer, deliver to the assuming party documents and
records relating to each Subservicing Agreement and an accounting of amounts
collected and held by it and otherwise use its best reasonable efforts to effect
the orderly and efficient transfer of the Subservicing Agreements to the
assuming party, without the payment of any fee by the successor Servicer,
notwithstanding any contrary provision in any Subservicing Agreement.

                  Section 4.08 Servicing Advances.

                  The Servicer will pay all "out-of-pocket" costs and expenses
incurred in the performance of its servicing obligations including, but not
limited to, the cost of (i) Preservation Expenses, (ii) any enforcement or
judicial proceedings, including foreclosures, and (iii) the management and
liquidation of Foreclosure Property but is only required to pay such costs and
expenses to the extent the Servicer reasonably believes such costs and expenses
will increase Net Liquidation Proceeds on the related Loan. Each such amount so
paid will constitute a "Servicing Advance". The Servicer may recover Servicing
Advances (x) from the Borrowers to the extent permitted by the Loans, from
Liquidation Proceeds realized upon the liquidation of the related Loan and (y)
as provided in Sections 5.01(c)(1)(ii) or 5.01(c)(3)(i) hereof. In no case may
the Servicer recover Servicing Advances from principal and interest payments on
any Loan or from any amounts relating to any other Loan except as provided
pursuant to Sections 5.01(c)(1)(ii) or 5.01(c)(3)(i) hereof.

                  Section 4.09 Reserved.

                  Section 4.10 Maintenance of Insurance.

                  (a) The Servicer shall cause to be maintained with respect to
each Loan a hazard insurance policy with a generally acceptable carrier that
provides for fire and extended


                                      -62-
<PAGE>   68
coverage, and which provides for a recovery by the Servicer on behalf of the
Trust of insurance proceeds relating to such Loan in an amount not less than the
least of (i) the outstanding principal balance of the Loan, (ii) the minimum
amount required to compensate for loss or damage on a replacement cost basis and
(iii) the full insurable value of the premises.

                  (b) If the Loan at the time of origination relates to a
Mortgaged Property in an area identified in the Federal Register by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency as having special flood hazards, the Servicer will
cause to be maintained with respect thereto a flood insurance policy in a form
meeting the requirements of the current guidelines of the Federal Insurance
Administration with a generally acceptable carrier in an amount representing
coverage, and which provides for a recovery by the Servicer on behalf of the
Trust of insurance proceeds relating to such Loan of not less than the least of
(i) the outstanding principal balance of the Loan, (ii) the minimum amount
required to compensate for damage or loss on a replacement cost basis and (iii)
the maximum amount of insurance that is available under the Flood Disaster
Protection Act of 1973. The Servicer shall indemnify the Indenture Trustee out
of the Servicer's own funds for any loss to the Trust and the Majority
Noteholders resulting from the Servicer's failure to maintain the insurance
required by this Section.

                  (c) In the event that the Servicer shall obtain and maintain a
blanket policy insuring against fire and hazards of extended coverage on all of
the Loans, then, to the extent such policy names the Servicer as loss payee and
provides coverage in an amount equal to the aggregate unpaid principal balance
on the Loans with co-insurance, and otherwise complies with the requirements of
this Section 4.10, the Servicer shall be deemed conclusively to have satisfied
its obligations with respect to fire and hazard insurance coverage under this
Section 4.10, it being understood and agreed that such blanket policy may
contain a deductible clause, in which case the Servicer shall, in the event that
there shall not have been maintained on the related Mortgaged Property a policy
complying with the preceding paragraphs of this Section 4.10, and there shall
have been a loss which would have been covered by such policy, deposit in the
Collection Account from the Servicer's own funds the difference, if any, between
the amount that would have been payable under a policy complying with the
preceding paragraph of this Section 4.10 and the amount paid under such blanket
policy. Upon the request of the Indenture Trustee, the Issuer or the Initial
Noteholder, the Servicer shall cause to be delivered to the Indenture Trustee,
the Issuer or the Initial Noteholder, a certified true copy of such policy.

                  Section 4.11 Due-on-Sale Clauses; Assumption and Substitution
                               Agreements.

                  When a Mortgaged Property has been or is about to be conveyed
by the Borrower, the Servicer shall, to the extent it has knowledge of such
conveyance or prospective conveyance, exercise its rights to accelerate the
maturity of the related Loan under any "due on sale" clause contained in the
related Mortgage and, in the case of a HELOC Mortgage Loan, the related Credit
Line Agreement or Promissory Note; provided, however, that the Servicer shall
not exercise any such right if (i) the "due on sale" clause, in the reasonable
belief of the Servicer, is not enforceable under applicable law; or (ii) the
Servicer reasonably believes that to permit an assumption of the Loan would not
materially and adversely affect the interest of the Majority Noteholders or of
the Issuer. In such event, the Servicer shall enter into an


                                      -63-
<PAGE>   69
assumption and modification agreement with the person to whom such property has
been or is about to be conveyed, pursuant to which such person becomes liable
under the Promissory Note and, unless prohibited by applicable law or the Loan
Documents, the Borrower remains liable thereon. If the foregoing is not
permitted under applicable law, the Servicer is authorized to enter into a
substitution of liability agreement with such person, pursuant to which the
original Borrower is released from liability and such person is substituted as
Borrower and becomes liable under the Promissory Note; provided, however, that
to the extent any such substitution of liability agreement would be delivered by
the Servicer outside of its usual procedures for mortgage loans held in its own
portfolio the Servicer shall, prior to executing and delivering such agreement,
obtain the prior written consent of the Majority Noteholders. The Loan, as
assumed, shall conform in all respects to the requirements, representations and
warranties of this Agreement. The Servicer shall notify the Indenture Trustee
that any such assumption or substitution agreement has been completed by
forwarding to the Indenture Trustee the original copy of such assumption or
substitution agreement, which copy shall be added by the Indenture Trustee to
the related Loan File and which shall, for all purposes, be considered a part of
such Loan File to the same extent as all other documents and instruments
constituting a part thereof. The Servicer shall be responsible for recording or
causing the recordation any such assumption or substitution agreements. In
connection with any such assumption or substitution agreement, the required
monthly payment on the related Loan shall not be changed but shall remain as in
effect immediately prior to the assumption or substitution, the stated maturity
or outstanding principal amount of such Loan shall not be changed nor shall any
required monthly payments of principal or interest be deferred or forgiven. Any
fee collected by the Servicer or the Subservicer for consenting to any such
conveyance or entering into an assumption or substitution agreement shall be
retained by or paid to the Servicer as additional servicing compensation.

                  Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraph or any other provision
of this Agreement, the Servicer shall not be deemed to be in default, breach or
any other violation of its obligations hereunder by reason of any assumption of
a Loan by operation of law or any assumption which the Servicer may be
restricted by law from preventing, for any reason whatsoever.

                  Section 4.12 Realization Upon Defaulted Loans.

                  (a) The Servicer shall foreclose upon or otherwise comparably
effect the ownership on behalf of the Trust of Mortgaged Properties relating to
defaulted Loans as to which no satisfactory arrangements can be made for
collection of Delinquent payments and which the Servicer has not purchased
pursuant to a Servicer Call. In connection with such foreclosure or other
conversion, the Servicer shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in
it hereunder, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise or
use, as prudent mortgage lenders would exercise or use under the circumstances
in the conduct of their own affairs, including, but not limited to, advancing
funds for the payment of taxes, amounts due with respect to senior liens, and
insurance premiums. Any amounts so advanced shall constitute "Servicing
Advances" within the meaning of Section 4.08 hereof. The Servicer shall sell any
Foreclosure Property as soon as practicable in accordance with the servicing
standard set forth herein. Notwithstanding the generality of the foregoing
provisions, the


                                      -64-
<PAGE>   70
Servicer shall manage, conserve, protect and operate each Foreclosure Property
for the Issuer and the Majority Noteholders solely for the purpose of its prompt
disposition and sale. Pursuant to its efforts to sell such Foreclosure Property,
the Servicer shall either itself or through an agent selected by the Servicer
protect and conserve such Foreclosure Property in the same manner and to such
extent as is customary in the locality where such Foreclosure Property is
located and may, incident to its conservation and protection of the interests of
the Securityholders, rent the same, or any part thereof, as the Servicer deems
to be in the best interest of the Securityholders for the period prior to the
sale of such Foreclosure Property. The Servicer shall take into account the
existence of any hazardous substances, hazardous wastes or solid wastes, as such
terms are defined in the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and
Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or other
federal, state or local environmental legislation, on a Foreclosure Property in
determining whether to foreclose upon or otherwise comparably convert the
ownership of such Foreclosure Property. With respect to any Loan secured by a
mixed use Foreclosure Property, the Servicer shall, prior to foreclosing upon or
otherwise comparably effecting the ownership in the name of the Servicer on
behalf of the Trust, either (x) perform a "phase one environmental study" of
such Foreclosure Property or (y) repurchase such Foreclosure Property at the
Alternate Repurchase Price, unless an Overcollateralization Shortfall exists, in
which case it shall be at the Repurchase Price.

                  Pursuant to its efforts to sell such Foreclosure Property, the
Servicer shall either itself or through an agent selected by the Servicer
protect and conserve such Foreclosure Property in the same manner and to such
extent as is customary in the locality where such Foreclosure Property is
located and may, incident to its conservation and protection of the interests of
the Securityholders, rent the same, or any part thereof, as the Servicer deems
to be in the best interest of the Securityholders for the period prior to the
sale of such Foreclosure Property. The Servicer shall take into account the
existence of any hazardous substances, hazardous wastes or solid wastes, as such
terms are defined in the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and
Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or other
federal, state or local environmental legislation, on a Mortgaged Property in
determining whether to foreclose upon or otherwise comparably convert the
ownership of such Mortgaged Property.

                  (b) The Servicer shall determine, with respect to each
Defaulted Loan, when it has recovered, whether through trustee's sale,
foreclosure sale or otherwise, all amounts it expects to recover from or on
account of such defaulted Loan, whereupon such Loan shall become a "Liquidated
Loan" and shall promptly deliver to the Initial Noteholder a related liquidation
report with respect to such Liquidated Loan.

                  Section 4.13 Release of Files.

                  Upon the payment in full of any Loan (including the repurchase
of any Loan or any liquidation of such Loan through foreclosure or otherwise),
or the receipt by the Servicer or any Subservicer of a notification that payment
in full will be escrowed in a manner customary for such purposes, the Servicer
shall deliver to the Custodian a Request for Release and Receipt in accordance
with the terms of the Custodial Agreement. The Servicer shall


                                      -65-
<PAGE>   71
either hold such Custodial File in trust or deliver it to (i) an escrow agent or
(ii) any employee, agent or attorney of the Indenture Trustee, in each case
pending its release by the Servicer, such escrow agent or such employee, agent
or attorney of the Indenture Trustee, as the case may be. Upon any such payment
in full, or the receipt of such notification that such funds have been placed in
escrow, the Servicer or any Subservicer is authorized to give, as
attorney-in-fact for the Issuer and the Indenture Trustee and the mortgagee
under the Mortgage which secured the Promissory Note, an instrument of
satisfaction (or assignment of Mortgage without recourse) regarding the
Mortgaged Property relating to such Mortgage, which instrument of satisfaction
or assignment, as the case may be, shall be delivered to the Person or Persons
entitled thereto against receipt therefor of payment in full, it being
understood and agreed that no expense incurred in connection with such
instrument of satisfaction or assignment, as the case may be, shall be
chargeable to the Collection Account. In lieu of executing any such satisfaction
or assignment, as the case may be, the Servicer may prepare and submit to the
Indenture Trustee, a satisfaction (or assignment without recourse, if requested
by the Person or Persons entitled thereto) in form for execution by the
Indenture Trustee with all requisite information completed by the Servicer or
any Subservicer; in such event, the Indenture Trustee shall execute and
acknowledge such satisfaction or assignment, as the case may be, and deliver the
same with the related Custodial File, as aforesaid.

                  Section 4.14 Access to Information.

                  (a) The Servicer understands that, in connection with the
transfer of the Notes, Noteholders may request that the Servicer make available
to the Noteholders and to prospective Noteholders annual audited financial
statements of Advanta Corp. if AMCUSA or any Affiliate thereof is the Servicer,
or if not, the Servicer for any or all of the most recently completed five
fiscal years for which such statements are available, which request shall not be
unreasonably denied.

                  (b) So long as any Notes remain outstanding, each of the
Issuer and any Noteholder shall, at any time and from time to time during
regular business hours, or at such other times upon reasonable notice to the
Servicer and the Servicer shall permit the Issuer and any Noteholder, or its
agents or representatives to:

                  (i) examine all books, records and documents (including
computer tapes and disks) in the possession or under the control of the Servicer
relating to the Loans, the servicing of the Loans and the compliance of the
terms of the Basic Documents, as may be reasonably requested;

                  (ii) visit the offices and property of the Servicer for the
purpose of examining such materials described in clause (b)(i) above;

                  (iii) consult with such professionals as may reasonably be
aware of the operations or condition of the Servicer, including, without
limitation, accountants and auditors, and the Servicer shall cause such
professionals to cooperate with any examination conducted in accordance with the
terms of this Section 4.14 and to provide access to those materials listed in
subclause (b)(i) above in the possession or under the control of such
professionals.


                                      -66-
<PAGE>   72
                  Section 4.15 Release of Loan Files.

                  If with respect to any Loan:

                  (i)      such Loan has become an Unqualified Loan and has been
                           repurchased or a Qualified Substitute Loan has been
                           conveyed to the Trust pursuant to Section 3.06
                           hereof;

                  (ii)     such Loan or the related Foreclosure Property has
                           been sold in connection with the termination of the
                           Trust pursuant to Section 10.01 hereof;

                  (iii)    such Loan has been repurchased by the related Loan
                           Originator in accordance with the terms of Section
                           3.08; or

                  (iv)     such Loan has been included in a Disposition and
                           concurrently with such release the cash Disposition
                           Proceeds associated therewith will be deposited into
                           the Collection Account,

then, in each such case, the Servicer shall deliver a certificate to the effect
that the Servicer has complied with all of its obligations under this Agreement
with respect to such Loan and requesting that the Indenture Trustee release to
the Servicer the related Custodial Loan File, and the Indenture Trustee shall,
within five Business Days or such shorter period as may be required by
applicable law, release, or cause the Custodian to release (unless such
Custodial Loan File has previously been released), the related Custodial Loan
File to the Servicer and execute and deliver such instruments of transfer or
assignment prepared and delivered to it by the Servicer, in each case without
recourse, representation or warranty as shall be necessary to vest ownership of
such Loan in the Servicer or such other Person as may be specified in such
certificate, the forms of any such instrument to be appended to such
certificate.

                  Section 4.16 Servicing Compensation.

                  As compensation for its services hereunder, the Servicer shall
be entitled to retain from collections on the Loans or otherwise withdraw from
the Collection Account the Servicing Fee, out of which the Servicer shall pay
any servicing fees owed or payable to any Subservicer. Additional servicing
compensation in the form of investment income on the Collection Account,
Distribution Account and Transfer Obligation Account, assumption fees,
modification fees, and other administrative fees, and any prepayment premiums,
insufficient funds charges, amounts remitted pursuant to Section 5.01 hereof and
late payment charges shall be part of the Servicing Compensation payable to the
Servicer hereunder and shall be paid either by the Servicer's retaining such
additional servicing compensation prior to deposit into the Collection Account
pursuant to Section 5.01(b)(1) hereof or, if deposited into the Collection
Account, as part of the Servicing Compensation withdrawn therefrom pursuant to
Section 5.01 hereof.

                  The Servicer shall be required to pay all expenses incurred by
it in connection with its servicing activities hereunder and shall not be
entitled to reimbursement therefor


                                      -67-
<PAGE>   73
except as specifically provided for herein. The Servicer also agrees to pay all
reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any successor Servicer or the
Indenture Trustee in replacing the Servicer in the event of a default by the
Servicer in the performance of its duties under the terms and conditions of this
Agreement.

                  Section 4.17 Statement as to Compliance and Financial
                               Statements.

                  The Servicer will deliver to the Initial Noteholder:

                  (a) not later than 105 days following the end of each calendar
year (beginning in March, 2000), an Officer's Certificate stating that (i) a
review of the activities of the Servicer during the preceding year and of
performance under this Agreement has been made under such officer's supervision
and (ii) to the best of such officer's knowledge, based on such review, the
Servicer has fulfilled all of its obligations under this Agreement throughout
such year, or, if there has been a default in the fulfillment of any such
obligation, specifying each such default known to such officer and the nature
and status thereof and what action the Servicer proposes to take with respect
thereto.

                  (b) As soon as available and in no event later than 5 Business
Days after the filing thereof with the Commission each of the first three
quarterly fiscal periods of Advanta Corp., a Quarterly Report on "Form 10-Q"
filed by Advanta Corp. with the Commission.

                  (c) As soon as available and in no event later than 5 Business
Days after the filing thereof with the Commission, an Annual Report on "Form
10-K" filed by Advanta Corp. with the Commission.

                  (d) As soon as available and in any event within 5 Business
Days after the delivery thereof to its shareholders, the annual report that is
delivered to its shareholders.

                  (e) Within 10 days after service of process on any of the
following, notice of all legal or arbitrable proceedings affecting the Servicer
or any of its subsidiaries that questions or challenges the validity or
enforceability of any of the Basic Documents or as to which there is a
reasonable likelihood of adverse determination which would result in a material
adverse effect with respect to the value of the Loans or the interests of any of
the Securityholders therein. The Servicer shall also furnish and certify to the
requesting party such other information as to (i) its organization, activities
and personnel relating to the performance of the obligations of the Servicer
hereunder, (ii) its financial condition, (iii) the Loans and (iv) the
performance of the obligations of any Subservicer under the related Subservicing
Agreement, in each case as the Indenture Trustee or the Issuer may reasonably
request from time to time.

                  Section 4.18 Independent Public Accountants' Servicing Report.

                  Not later than 105 days following the end of each calendar
year (beginning in March, 2000), the Servicer at its expense shall cause a
nationally recognized firm of Independent Certified Public Accountants (which
may also render other services to the Servicer) to furnish a statement to the
Indenture Trustee, the Depositor and the Initial Noteholder to the effect that
such firm has examined certain documents and records relating to


                                      -68-
<PAGE>   74
the servicing of the Loans under this Agreement or of loans under pooling and
servicing agreements (including the Loans and this Agreement) substantially
similar to one another (such statement to have attached thereto a schedule
setting forth the pooling and servicing agreements covered thereby) and that, on
the basis of such examination conducted substantially in compliance with USAP or
SAS 70, such firm confirms that such servicing has been conducted in compliance
with such pooling and servicing agreements except for such significant
exceptions or errors in records that, in the opinion of such firm, USAP or SAS
70 requires it to report, each of which errors and omissions shall be specified
in such statement. In rendering such statement, such firm may rely, as to
matters relating to direct servicing of loans by Subservicers, upon comparable
statements for examinations conducted substantially in compliance with USAP or
SAS 70 (rendered within one year of such statement) of Independent certified
public accountants with respect to the related Subservicer. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in the event that the Independent Certified Public Accountants
conduct reviews of the Servicer pursuant to SAS 70, then SAS 70 rather than USAP
shall govern such reviews.

                  Section 4.19 ARMs.

                  The Servicer shall enforce each ARM in accordance with its
terms and shall timely calculate, record, report and apply all interest rate
adjustments in accordance with the related Promissory Note. The Servicer's
records shall, at all times, reflect the then Loan Interest Rate and monthly
payment and the Servicer shall timely notify the Borrower of any changes to the
Loan Interest Rate or the Borrower's monthly payment. If the Servicer fails to
make either a timely or accurate adjustment to the Loan Interest Rate or monthly
payment or to notify the Borrower of such adjustments, the Servicer shall pay
from its own funds any shortage. If the Servicer's failure to make a scheduled
change affects the Trust's rights to make future adjustments under the terms of
the ARM, the Servicer shall purchase the ARM, in accordance with the provisions
of the last sentence of Section 3.08(b). Any amounts paid by the Servicer
pursuant to this Section shall not be an advance and shall not be reimbursable
from the proceeds of any Loan.

                  Section 4.20 Year 2000 Compliance.

                  By December 31, 1999, the Servicer will maintain all hardware,
firmware or software, or any system consisting of one or more thereof,
including, without limitation, any and all enhancements, upgrades,
customizations, modifications, maintenance and the like (collectively, the
"System"), used by or for the benefit of the Servicer in order for the Servicer
to perform its obligations under the Basic Documents to which it is a party in a
manner that permits the Servicer to record, store, process, provide and where
appropriate, insert, true and accurate dates and calculations for dates and
spans, including and following January 1, 2000 (herein referred to as "Year 2000
Compliant"). In addition, "Year 2000 Compliant" shall mean that the System will
support the ability for its continued normal usage such that neither the
performance nor the correct functioning of the System will be affected by the
approach, and passing into, the year 2000.


                                      -69-
<PAGE>   75
                  Section 4.21 Inspections by the Majority Noteholders and the
                               Indenture Trustee.

                  At any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable
notice, the Majority Noteholders, the Indenture Trustee, or any agents or
representatives thereof may inspect the Servicer's servicing operations and
discuss the servicing operations of the Servicer with any of its officers or
directors. The costs and expenses incurred by the Servicer or its agents or
representatives in connection with any such examinations or discussions shall be
paid by the Servicer.

                  Section 4.22 Errors and Omissions Insurance.

                  The Servicer agrees to maintain errors and omissions coverage
and a fidelity bond, each at least to the extent generally maintained by prudent
mortgage loan servicers having servicing portfolios of similar size.


                                    ARTICLE V

              ESTABLISHMENT OF TRUST ACCOUNTS; TRANSFER OBLIGATION

                  Section 5.01 Collection Account and Distribution Account;
                               Reserve Account.

                  (a) (1) Establishment of Collection Account. The Servicer, for
the benefit of the Noteholders, shall cause to be established and maintained one
or more Collection Accounts (collectively, the "Collection Account"), which
shall be separate Eligible Accounts entitled "Collection Account, Bankers Trust
Company of California, N.A., as Indenture Trustee, for the benefit of the
Advanta Home Equity Loan Owner Trust 1998-MS1". The Collection Account shall be
maintained with the Indenture Trustee or any other depository institution which
satisfies the requirements set forth in the definition of Eligible Account.
Funds in the Collection Account shall be invested in accordance with Section
5.03 hereof.

                  The Collection Account shall be established, as of the date
hereof, as an Eligible Account pursuant to the definition thereof.

                  (2) Establishment of Distribution Account. No later than the
date hereof, the Servicer, for the benefit of the Noteholders, shall cause to be
established and maintained with Bankers Trust Company of California, N.A., one
or more Distribution Accounts (collectively, the "Distribution Account"), which
shall be separate Eligible Accounts, entitled "Distribution Account, Bankers
Trust Company of California, N.A., as Indenture Trustee, for the benefit of the
Advanta Home Equity Loan Owner Trust 1998-MS1."

                  (3) Establishment of Reserve Account. No later than the date
hereof, the Servicer, for the benefit of the Noteholders, shall cause to be
established and maintained with Bankers Trust Company of California, N.A. a
Reserve Account (the "Reserve Account"), which shall be an Eligible Account,
entitled "Reserve Account, Bankers Trust Company of California, N.A., as
Indenture Trustee, for the benefit of the Advanta Home Equity Loan


                                      -70-
<PAGE>   76
Owner Trust 1998-MS1." Funds in the Reserve Account shall be invested in
accordance with Section 5.03 hereof.

                  (b)(1)   Deposits to Collection Account. The Servicer shall
deposit or cause to be deposited to the Collection Account (without
duplication):

                  (i)      all payments on or in respect of each Loan collected
                           on or after the related Transfer Cutoff Date net of
                           any Servicing Compensation retained therefrom and
                           excluding any Premium Recapture within two (2)
                           Business Days after receipt thereof;

                  (ii)     all Net Liquidation Proceeds pursuant to Section 4.12
                           hereof within two (2) Business Days after receipt
                           thereof;

                  (iii)    all Mortgage Insurance Proceeds not required to be
                           applied to restoration or repair of Mortgaged
                           Property pursuant to Section 4.10 within two (2)
                           Business Days after receipt thereof;

                  (iv)     all Released Mortgaged Property Proceeds within two
                           (2) Business Days after receipt thereof;

                  (v)      any amounts payable in connection with the repurchase
                           of any Loan and the amount of any Substitution
                           Adjustment pursuant to Sections 2.05 and 3.06 hereof
                           concurrently with payment thereof;

                  (vi)     any Repurchase Price payable in connection with a
                           Servicer Call pursuant to Section 3.08(b) hereof
                           concurrently with payment thereof;

                  (vii)    the deposit of the Termination Price under Section
                           10.02 hereof concurrently with payment thereof;

                  (viii)   any Repurchase Price payable in connection with a
                           Loan Originator Put remitted by the related Loan
                           Originator pursuant to Section 3.08 hereof in
                           accordance with the last sentence of this Section
                           5.01(b)(1);

                  (ix)     any cash Disposition Proceeds pursuant to Section
                           3.07 in accordance with the last sentence of this
                           Section 5.01(b)(1); and

                  (x)      any payments received under Hedging Instruments or
                           the return of amounts by the Hedging Counterparty
                           pledged pursuant to prior Hedge Funding Requirements
                           in accordance with the last sentence of this Section
                           5.01(b)(1).

                  Except as provided in Section 5.01(c)(4), the Servicer agrees
that it will cause the Loan Originator, Borrower or other appropriate Person
paying such amounts, as the case may be, to remit directly to the Indenture
Trustee for deposit into the Collection Account all amounts referenced in
clauses (vii), (viii), (ix) and (x) to the extent such amounts are in excess


                                      -71-
<PAGE>   77
of a Monthly Payment on the related Loan. To the extent the Servicer receives
any such amounts, it will deposit them into the Collection Account on the same
Business Day as receipt thereof.

                  (2)      Deposits to the Reserve Account. On any Transfer Date
on which Wet Funded Loans are purchased by the Issuer and pledged to the
Noteholders, the Initial Noteholder shall deposit into the Reserve Account the
Sales Prices for each such Wet Funded Loan.

                  (c)      Withdrawals From Collection Account; Deposits to
Distribution Account.

                  (1)      Withdrawals From Collection Account -- Reimbursement
Items. The Indenture Trustee, at the written direction of the Servicer, shall
periodically but in any event on each Determination Date, make the following
withdrawals from the Collection Account prior to any other withdrawals, in no
particular order of priority:

                  (i)      to withdraw any amount not required to be deposited
                           in the Collection Account or deposited therein in
                           error;

                  (ii)     to withdraw the Servicing Advance Reimbursement
                           Amount; and

                  (iii)    to withdraw net investment earnings and remit such
                           amounts to the Servicer, as provided in Section
                           5.03(b)(1); and

                  (iv)     to clear and terminate the Collection Account in
                           connection with the termination of this Agreement.

                  (2) Indenture Trustee Deposits to Distribution Account -
Payment Dates.


                  (A)      On the Business Day prior to each Payment Date, the
Indenture Trustee shall deposit into the Distribution Account such amounts as
are required from the Transfer Obligation Account pursuant to Sections 5.05(e),
5.05(f), 5.05(g) and 5.05(h).

                  (B)      After making all withdrawals specified in Section
5.01(c)(1) above, on each Remittance Date, the Indenture Trustee (based on
information provided by the Servicer for such Payment Date), shall withdraw the
Monthly Remittance Amount from the Collection Account not later than 5:00 P.M.
Noon, New York City time and deposit such amount into the Distribution Account.

                  (C)      The Indenture Trustee shall make such deposits into
the Distribution Account from the Reserve Account as required by Section
5.01(d)(2).

                  (3)      Withdrawals From Distribution Account -- Payment
Dates. On each Payment Date, to the extent funds are available in the
Distribution Account, the Indenture Trustee (based on the information provided
by the Servicer contained in the Servicer's


                                      -72-
<PAGE>   78
Remittance Report for such Payment Date) shall make withdrawals therefrom for
application in the following order of priority:

                  (i)      to distribute on such Payment Date the following
                           amounts in the following order: (a) to the Servicer,
                           (x) an amount equal to the Servicing Compensation and
                           all unpaid Servicing Compensation from prior Payment
                           Dates (to the extent not retained from collections),
                           including net investment earnings on the Distribution
                           Account and (y) all Nonrecoverable Servicing Advances
                           not previously reimbursed, (b) to the Servicer, in
                           trust for the Owner Trustee, an amount equal to the
                           Owner Trustee Fee and all unpaid Owner Trustee Fees
                           from prior Payment Dates;

                  (ii)     to distribute on such Payment Date, the Hedge Funding
                           Requirement to the appropriate Hedging
                           Counterparties; provided, that only cash on or in
                           respect of fixed rate Loans (including cash
                           Disposition Proceeds received therefrom) shall be
                           distributed for such purpose and; provided, further,
                           that amounts distributed pursuant to clause (i) above
                           to the extent not attributable to a specific Loan
                           shall be deemed paid from fixed rate Loans, pro rata
                           based on their aggregate Principal Balances relative
                           to the Pool Principal Balance on such Payment Date;

                  (iii)    to the holders of the Notes pro rata, the sum of the
                           Interest Payment Amount for such Payment Date and the
                           Interest Carry-Forward Amount for such Payment Date;

                  (iv)     to the holders of the Notes pro rata, the sum of the
                           Overcollateralization Shortfall for such Payment Date
                           for such Payment Date; provided, however, that if (a)
                           a Rapid Amortization Trigger shall have occurred and
                           not been Deemed Cured or (b) an Event of Default
                           under the Indenture or Default shall have occurred,
                           the holders of the Notes shall receive, in respect of
                           principal, all remaining amounts on deposit in the
                           Distribution Account;

                  (v)      to the appropriate Person, amounts in respect of
                           Issuer/Depositor Indemnities (as defined in the Trust
                           Agreement) and Due Diligence Fees until such amounts
                           are paid in full;

                  (vi)     to the Transfer Obligation Account, all remaining
                           amounts until the balance therein equals the Transfer
                           Obligation Target Amount; and

                  (vii)    to the holders of the Trust Certificates of record on
                           the next preceding Record Date, pro rata, all amounts
                           remaining therein.

                  (4)      (i) If a Loan Originator or the Servicer, as
applicable, repurchases a Loan pursuant to Section 2.05, 3.06(a), 3.06(c), 3.08
(b) or 3.08(c), as applicable, and on the date of such repurchase there is not
an Overcollateralization Shortfall (after giving effect to


                                      -73-
<PAGE>   79
such repurchase), then the Majority Noteholders and the Issuer shall deem such
date to be an additional Payment Date and will provide written notice to the
Indenture Trustee of such additional Payment Date. On such additional Payment
Date, the Loan Originator or Servicer, in satisfaction of its obligations under
2.05, 3.06(a), 3.06(c), 3.08 (b) or 3.08(c) and in satisfaction of the
obligations of the Issuer, to distribute such amounts to the Noteholders
pursuant to Section 5.01(c), shall remit to the Noteholders, on behalf of the
Issuer, an amount equal to the Alternate Repurchase Price, and the Note
Principal Balance will be reduced accordingly. Such amounts shall be deemed
deposited into the Collection Account and the Distribution Account, as
applicable, and such amounts will be deemed distributed pursuant to the terms of
Section 5.01(c).

                  (ii) To the extent that there is deposited in the Collection
Account any amounts referenced in Section 5.01(b)(1)(v), (vi), (vii), (viii) and
(ix) and the Majority Noteholders and the Issuer may agree, upon reasonable
written notice to the Indenture Trustee, to additional Payment Dates, provided
that such notice may provide that the Servicer shall, instead of depositing into
the Collection Account the amounts referenced in Section 5.01(b)(1)(v), (vi),
(vii), (viii) and (ix), the Servicer shall distribute such amounts to the
Persons specified in such written notice. The Issuer and the Majority Noteholder
shall give the Indenture Trustee at least one (1) Business Day's written notice
prior to such additional Payment Date and such notice shall specify each amount
(if any) in Section 5.01(c) to be withdrawn from the Collection Account and
Distribution Account on such day.

                  Notwithstanding that the Notes have been paid in full, the
Indenture Trustee and the Servicer shall continue to maintain the Distribution
Account hereunder until this Agreement has been terminated.

                  (d) Withdrawals from the Reserve Account.

                  (1) On each day on which (A) the Indenture Trustee shall have
been directed by the Initial Noteholder pursuant to instructions substantially
in the form of Exhibit D hereto, which instructions shall be delivered by the
Initial Noteholder by no later than 12:00 p.m. Noon New York City time on the
Business Day following any day on which the Indenture Trustee and the Initial
Noteholder shall have received, by 6:00 p.m. New York City time, a Loan Schedule
and Exceptions Report, complete and in form and substance satisfactory to the
Initial Noteholder, confirming that the Custodial Loan File has been received by
the Custodian for the related Wet Funded Loan in accordance with Section 2.04
(provided, that if such Loan Schedule and Exceptions Report shall be received
after 6:00 p.m. New York City time it shall be deemed to have been received by
6:00 p.m. New York City time on the following Business Day) or on which (B) the
Indenture Trustee and the Initial Noteholder shall have confirmed receipt of the
Repurchase Price on account of such Wet Funded Loan in the Collection Account
paid pursuant to Section 2.05(b), the Indenture Trustee shall distribute an
amount equal to the Sales Price for such Wet Funded Loan to the applicable Loan
Originator that conveyed such Wet Funded Loan, as the assignee of the Reserve
Account Right.

                  (2) For each Wet Funded Loan for which the Custodian shall not
have received a Custodial Loan File in accordance with Section 2.04, on or
before the related Wet


                                      -74-
<PAGE>   80
Custodial File Delivery Date the related Loan Originator, upon demand of the
Initial Noteholder or Issuer, shall repurchase such Wet Funded Loan pursuant to
Section 2.05(b)(ii), provided that if the related Repurchase Price is not
received prior to 1:00 P.M., New York City time on such date, the Indenture
Trustee, at the direction of the Initial Noteholder, shall withdraw from the
Reserve Account and deposit into the Distribution Account for payment to the
Noteholders, an amount equal to the Sales Price for such Loan.

                  (3) The Indenture Trustee shall withdraw from the Reserve
Account any net investment earnings then on deposit therein, and remit such
amounts to the Loan Originators, as provided in Section 5.03(b)(1) hereof.

                  (4) Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Basic Documents,
the Reserve Account shall be applied in accordance with this Section 5.01(d)
regardless of the occurrence of a Default or Event of Default.

                  Section 5.02 Payments to Securityholders.

                  (a) All distributions made on the Notes on each Payment Date
will be made on a pro rata basis among the Noteholders of record of the Notes on
the next preceding Record Date based on the Percentage Interest represented by
their respective Notes, without preference or priority of any kind, and, except
as otherwise provided in the next succeeding sentence, shall be made by wire
transfer of immediately available funds to the account of such Noteholder, if
such Noteholder shall own of record Notes having a Percentage Interest (as
defined in the Indenture) of at least 20% and shall have so notified the
Indenture Trustee, 5 Business Days prior to the related Record Date and
otherwise by check mailed to the address of such Noteholder appearing in the
Notes Register. The final distribution on each Note will be made in like manner,
but only upon presentment and surrender of such Note at the location specified
in the notice to Noteholders of such final distribution.

                  (b) All distributions made on the Trust Certificates on each
Payment Date will be made pro rata among the holders of the Trust Certificates
of record on the next preceding Record Date based on their Percentage Interests
(as defined in the Trust Agreement), without preference or priority of any kind,
and, except as otherwise provided in the next succeeding sentence, shall be made
by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account of each such
holder, if such holder shall be the Depositor, ANB or ABC or an Affiliate
thereof or shall own of record a Trust Certificate in an original denomination
aggregating at least 25% of the Percentage Interests (as defined in the Trust
Agreement) and shall have so notified the Indenture Trustee 5 Business Days
prior to the related Record Date, and otherwise by check mailed to the address
of such Certificateholder appearing in the Certificate Register. The final
distribution on each Trust Certificate will be made in like manner, but only
upon presentment and surrender of such Trust Certificate at the location
specified in the notice to holders of the Trust Certificates of such final
distribution. Any amount distributed to the holders of the Trust Certificates on
any Payment Date shall not be subject to any claim or interest of the
Noteholders. In the event that at any time there shall be more than one
Certificateholder, the Indenture Trustee shall be entitled to reasonable
additional


                                      -75-
<PAGE>   81
compensation from the Servicer for its obligations hereunder, including, without
limitation, its obligations to distribute funds and produce and deliver
statements.

                  (c) For purposes of this Section 5.02, the sole holders of the
Trust Certificates shall be deemed to be the Depositor, ANB and ABC until such
time as the Depositor, ANB or ABC provides written notice to the contrary to the
Indenture Trustee and the Initial Noteholder.

                  Section 5.03 Trust Accounts; Trust Account Property.

                  (a) Control of Trust Accounts. Each of the Trust Accounts
established hereunder has been pledged by the Issuer to the Indenture Trustee
under the Indenture and shall be subject to the lien of the Indenture. Amounts
distributed from each Trust Account in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement shall be released for the benefit of the Securityholders from the
Trust Estate upon such distribution thereunder or hereunder. The Indenture
Trustee shall possess all right, title and interest in and to all funds on
deposit from time to time in the Trust Accounts and in all proceeds thereof
(excluding all investment earnings thereon) and all such funds, investments,
proceeds and income shall be part of the Trust Account Property and the Trust
Estate. If, at any time, any Trust Account ceases to be an Eligible Account, the
Indenture Trustee shall, within ten Business Days (or such longer period, not to
exceed 30 calendar days, with the prior written consent of the Majority
Noteholders) (i) establish a new Trust Account as an Eligible Account, (ii)
terminate the ineligible Trust Account, and (iii) transfer any cash and
investments from such ineligible Trust Account to such new Trust Account.

                  With respect to the Trust Accounts, the Issuer and the
Indenture Trustee agree, that each such Trust Account shall be subject to the
sole and exclusive dominion, custody and control of the Indenture Trustee for
the benefit of the Noteholders, and, except as may be consented to in writing by
the Majority Noteholders, the Indenture Trustee shall have sole signature and
withdrawal authority with respect thereto.

                  The Servicer shall have the power, revocable by the Majority
Noteholder or by the Indenture Trustee, to instruct the Indenture Trustee to
make withdrawals and payments from the Trust Accounts for the purpose of
permitting the Servicer to carry out its duties hereunder or permitting the
Indenture Trustee or Owner Trustee to carry out their respective duties herein
or under the Indenture or the Trust Agreement, as applicable.

                  (b)(1) Investment of Funds. Funds held in the Distribution
Account, the Collection Account, Reserve Account and the Transfer Obligation
Account may be invested (to the extent practicable and consistent with any
requirements of the Code) in Permitted Investments, as directed by the Servicer
prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default and by the Majority Noteholders
thereafter, in writing or facsimile transmission confirmed in writing by the
Servicer or Majority Noteholders, as applicable. In the event the Indenture
Trustee has not received such written direction, such Funds shall be invested in
any investment described in clause (i) of the definition of Permitted
Investments. Funds held in the Reserve Account may be invested at the direction
of the Majority Noteholders in the same method. In any case,


                                      -76-
<PAGE>   82
funds in the Collection Account, Reserve Account and the Transfer Obligation
Account must be available for withdrawal without penalty, and any Permitted
Investments must mature or otherwise be available for withdrawal, one Business
Day prior to the next Payment Date and shall not be sold or disposed of prior to
its maturity subject to Subsection (b)(2) of this Section. All interest and any
other investment earnings on amounts or investments held in the Trust Accounts
(other than the Reserve Account) shall be paid to the Servicer immediately upon
receipt by the Indenture Trustee. All investment income on the Reserve Account
shall be distributed to the Loan Originators as assignees of the Reserve Account
Right in accordance with the applicable Allocation Percentage or as such parties
may otherwise direct by the Indenture Trustee upon receipt. All Permitted
Investments in which funds in the Collection Account, Reserve Account or the
Transfer Obligation Account are invested must be held by or registered in the
name of "Bankers Trust Company of California, N.A., as Indenture Trustee, in
trust for the Advanta Home Equity Loan Owner Trust 1998-1."

                  (2) Insufficiency and Losses in Trust Accounts. If any amounts
are needed for disbursement from the Collection Account, Reserve Account or the
Transfer Obligation Account held by or on behalf of the Indenture Trustee and
sufficient uninvested funds are not available to make such disbursement, the
Indenture Trustee shall cause to be sold or otherwise converted to cash a
sufficient amount of the investments in the Collection Account, Reserve Account
or the Transfer Obligation Account, as the case may be. The Indenture Trustee
shall not be liable for any investment loss or other charge resulting therefrom,
unless such loss or charge is caused by the failure of the Indenture Trustee to
perform in accordance with written directions provided pursuant to this Section
5.03.

                  If any losses are realized in connection with any investment
in the Collection Account or the Transfer Obligation Account pursuant to this
Agreement, then the Servicer shall deposit the amount of such losses (to the
extent not offset by income from other investments in the Collection Account or
the Transfer Obligation Account, as the case may be) into the Collection
Account, or the Transfer Obligation Account, as the case may be, immediately
upon the realization of such loss, provided that all such losses incurred with
respect to Permitted Investments in the Reserve Account specified in clause (j)
of the definition thereof shall be reimbursed by the Initial Noteholder. All
interest and any other investment earnings on amounts held in the Collection
Account, Reserve Account and the Transfer Obligation Account shall be taxed to
the Issuer and for federal and state income tax purposes the Issuer shall be
deemed to be the owner of the Collection Account, Reserve Account and/or the
Transfer Obligation Account, as the case may be.

                  (c) Subject to Section 6.01 of the Indenture, the Indenture
Trustee shall not in any way be held liable by reason of any insufficiency in
any Trust Account held by the Indenture Trustee resulting from any investment
loss on any Permitted Investment included therein.

                  (d) With respect to the Trust Account Property, the Indenture
Trustee acknowledges and agrees that:


                                      -77-
<PAGE>   83
                  (1) any Trust Account Property that is held in deposit
accounts shall be held solely in the Eligible Accounts, subject to the last
sentence of Subsection (a) of this Section 5.03; and each such Eligible Account
shall be subject to the sole and exclusive dominion, custody and control of the
Indenture Trustee; and, without limitation on the foregoing, the Indenture
Trustee shall have sole signature authority with respect thereto;

                  (2) any Trust Account Property that constitutes Physical
Property shall be delivered to the Indenture Trustee in accordance with
paragraph (a) of the definition of "Delivery" in Section 1.01 hereof and shall
be held, pending maturity or disposition, solely by the Indenture Trustee or a
financial intermediary (as such term is defined in Section 8-102(a)(14) of the
UCC) acting solely for the Indenture Trustee;

                  (3) any Trust Account Property that is a book-entry security
held through the Federal Reserve System pursuant to federal book-entry
regulations shall be delivered in accordance with paragraph (b) of the
definition of "Delivery" in Section 1.01 hereof and shall be maintained by the
Indenture Trustee, pending maturity or disposition, through continued book-entry
registration of such Trust Account Property as described in such paragraph; and

                  (4) any Trust Account Property that is an "uncertificated
security" under Article 8 of the UCC and that is not governed by clause (3)
above shall be delivered to the Indenture Trustee in accordance with paragraph
(c) of the definition of "Delivery" in Section 1.01 hereof and shall be
maintained by the Indenture Trustee, pending maturity or disposition, through
continued registration of the Indenture Trustee's (or its nominee's) ownership
of such security. Funds in the Collection Account shall be invested in
accordance with Section 5.03 hereof.

                  Section 5.04 Advance Account.

                  (a) The Servicer shall cause to be established and maintained
in its name, an Advance Account (the "Advance Account"), which need not be a
segregated account. The Advance Account shall be maintained with any financial
institution the Servicer elects.

                  (b) Deposits and Withdrawals. Amounts in respect of the
transfer of Additional Note Principal Balances and Loans shall be deposited in
and withdrawn from the Advance Account as provided in Sections 2.01(c) and 2.06
hereof, Section 3.01 of the Note Purchase Agreement.

                  Section 5.05 Transfer Obligation Account.

                  (a) The Servicer, for the benefit of the Noteholders, shall
cause to be established and maintained in the name of the Indenture Trustee a
Transfer Obligation Account (the "Transfer Obligation Account"), which shall be
a separate Eligible Account and may be interest-bearing, entitled "Transfer
Obligation Account, Bankers Trust Company of California, N.A., as Indenture
Trustee, in trust for the Advanta Home Equity Loan Owner Trust 1998-MS1." The
Transfer Obligation Account shall be maintained with the Indenture Trustee. The
Indenture Trustee shall have no monitoring or calculation obligation with
respect to

                                      -78-
<PAGE>   84
withdrawals from the Transfer Obligation Account. Amounts in the Transfer
Obligation Account shall be invested in accordance with Section 5.03.

                  (b) In accordance with Section 5.06, the Transfer Obligor
shall deposit into the Transfer Obligation Account such amounts as may be
required thereby.

                  (c) (i) On each Payment Date, the Indenture Trustee will
deposit in the Transfer Obligation Account any amounts required to be deposited
therein pursuant to Section 5.01(c)(3)(v).

                      (ii) On each Collateral Value Excess Date, the Issuer
shall deposit in the Transfer Obligation Account any amounts required to be
deposited therein pursuant to Section 2.06(b).

                  (d) On the date of each Disposition, the Indenture Trustee
shall withdraw from the Transfer Obligation Account such amount on deposit
therein as may be requested by the Disposition Agent in writing to effect such
Disposition.

                  (e) On each Payment Date, the Indenture Trustee, upon the
written direction of the Servicer shall withdraw from the Transfer Obligation
Account and deposit into the Distribution Account on such Payment Date the
lesser of (x) the amount then on deposit in the Transfer Obligation Account and
(y) the Interest Carry-Forward Amount as of such date.

                  (f) If with respect to any Business Day the
Overcollateralization Shortfall exceeds the lesser of (x) 1% of the aggregate
Principal Balance of all Loans as of the prior Business Day and (y) $500,000,
the Indenture Trustee, upon the written direction of the Servicer shall withdraw
from the Transfer Obligation Account and deposit into the Distribution Account
on the related Payment Date the lesser of the amount then on deposit in the
Transfer Obligation Account and the amount of such Overcollateralization
Shortfall as of such date.

                  (g) If with respect to any Payment Date there shall exist a
Hedge Funding Requirement, the Indenture Trustee, upon the written direction of
the Servicer shall withdraw from the Transfer Obligation Account and deposit
into the Distribution Account on the Business Day prior to such Payment Date the
lesser of (x) the amount then on deposit in the Transfer Obligation Account
(after making all other required withdrawals therefrom with respect to such
Payment Date) and (y) the amount of such Hedge Funding Requirement as of such
date.

                  (h) In the event of the occurrence of an Event of Default
under the Indenture, the Indenture Trustee shall withdraw all remaining funds
from the Transfer Obligation Account and apply such funds in satisfaction of the
Notes as provided in Section 5.04(b) of the Indenture.

                  (i) The Indenture Trustee shall withdraw from the Transfer
Obligation Account any net investment earnings on deposit therein, and remit
such amounts to the Servicer, as provided in Section 5.03(b)(1) hereof.

                                      -79-
<PAGE>   85
                  (j) To the extent this Agreement requires the deposit of any
amounts into the Transfer Obligation Account, if the Majority Noteholders and
the Transfer Obligor agree in writing to distribute such amounts to persons
specified in such written notice, then upon reasonable notice to the Indenture
Trustee such amounts may be distributed in accordance with such written notice.
All such amounts shall be deemed deposited and withdrawn from the Transfer
Obligation Account for purposes of making calculations hereunder.

                  (k) (i) The Indenture Trustee shall return to the Transfer
Obligor (as the Transfer Obligor shall agree) all amounts on deposit in the
Transfer Obligation Account (after making all other withdrawals pursuant to this
Section 5.05) until the Majority Noteholders provide written notice to the
Indenture Trustee (with a copy to the Transfer Obligor) of the occurrence of a
default or event of default (however defined) under any Basic Document with
respect to the Issuer, Transfer Obligor, the Depositor, ANB or ABC or any of
their Affiliates and (ii) upon the date of the termination of this Agreement
pursuant to Article X, the Indenture Trustee, at the written direction of the
Loan Originator, shall withdraw any remaining amounts from the Transfer
Obligation Account and remit all such amounts to the Transfer Obligor.

                           Section 5.06 Transfer Obligation.

                  (a) In consideration of the transactions contemplated by the
Basic Documents, the Transfer Obligor agrees and covenants with the Depositor
that:

                  (i) In connection with each Disposition it shall fund, or
         cause to be funded, reserve funds, pay credit enhancer fees, pay, or
         cause to be paid, underwriting fees, fund any difference between the
         cash Disposition Proceeds and the aggregate Note Principal Balance at
         the time of such Disposition, and make, or cause to be made, such other
         payments as may be, in the reasonable opinion of the Disposition Agent,
         commercially reasonably necessary to effect Dispositions, in each case
         to the extent that Disposition Proceeds are insufficient to pay such
         amounts;

                  (ii) In connection with Hedging Instruments, on the Business
         Day prior to each Payment Date, it shall deliver to the Indenture
         Trustee for deposit into the Transfer Obligation Account any Hedge
         Funding Requirement (to the extent amounts available on the related
         Payment Date pursuant to Section 5.01 are insufficient to make such
         payment), when as and if due to any Hedging Counterparty;

                  (iii) If any Interest Carry-Forward Amount shall occur, it
         shall deposit into the Transfer Obligation Account any such Interest
         Carry-Forward Amount on or before the Business Day preceding such
         related Payment Date;

                  (iv) If on any Business Day, the Overcollateralization
         Shortfall exceeds the lesser of (x) 1% of the aggregate Principal
         Balance of all Loans in the Loan Pool as of the prior Business Day and
         (y) $500,000, it shall, on the following Business Day deposit into the
         Transfer Obligation Account the full amount of the
         Overcollateralization Shortfall as of such date; and

                                      -80-
<PAGE>   86
                  (v) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the
         event of the occurrence of an Event of Default under the Indenture, the
         Transfer Obligor shall promptly deposit into the Transfer Obligation
         Account the entire amount of the Unfunded Transfer Obligation;

provided, that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the
Transfer Obligor' cumulative payments under or in respect of the Transfer
Obligation (after subtracting therefrom any amounts returned to the Transfer
Obligor pursuant to Section 5.05(k)(i)) together with the related Loan
Originator's payments in respect of any Loan Originator Puts shall not in the
aggregate exceed the Unfunded Transfer Obligation.

                  (b) The Transfer Obligor shall pay such amounts upon one
Business Day's notice from either the Servicer or the Majority Noteholders.

                  (c) The Transfer Obligor agree that the Noteholders, as
ultimate assignee of the rights of the Depositor, ANB and ABC, respectively
under this Agreement and the other Basic Documents, may enforce the rights of
the Depositor, ANB and ABC, respectively, directly against the Transfer Obligor.





                                   ARTICLE VI

              STATEMENTS AND REPORTS; SPECIFICATION OF TAX MATTERS

                  Section 6.01 Statements.

                  (a) No later than 12 noon (California time) on each Remittance
Date, the Servicer shall deliver to the Indenture Trustee and the Initial
Noteholder by facsimile, the receipt and legibility of which shall be confirmed
by telephone, and with hard copy thereof to be delivered no later than one (1)
Business Day after such Remittance Date, the Servicer's Remittance Report,
setting forth the date of such Report (day, month and year), the name of the
Issuer (i.e., "Advanta Home Equity Loan Owner Trust 1998-MS1"), the Series
designation of the Notes (i.e., "Series 1998-MS1") and the date of this
Agreement, all in substantially the form set out in Exhibit B hereto.
Furthermore, on each Remittance Date, the Servicer shall deliver to the
Indenture Trustee and the Initial Noteholder a magnetic tape or computer disk
providing, with respect to each Loan in the Loan Pool as of the last day of the
related Remittance Period (i) the related Loan Originator's internal loan
identifying number; (ii) if such Loan is an ARM, the current Loan Interest Rate;
(iii) the Principal Balance with respect to such Loan; (iv) the date of the last
Monthly Payment paid in full; and (v) such other information as may be
reasonably requested by the Initial Noteholder and the Indenture Trustee.

                  (b)(i) No later than 12 noon (California time) on each
Remittance Date, the Servicer shall prepare and provide to the Indenture Trustee
via fax, receipt confirmed by telephone, the Initial Noteholder and each
Noteholder, a statement (the "Payment Statement"),

                                      -81-
<PAGE>   87
stating each date and amount of a purchase of Additional Note Principal Balance
(day, month and year), the name of the Issuer (i.e., "Advanta Home Equity Loan
Owner Trust 1998-MS1"), the Series designation of the Notes (i.e., "Series
1998-MS1"), the date of this Agreement and the following information:

                  (1)      the aggregate amount of collections in respect of
                           principal of the Loans received by the Servicer
                           during the preceding Remittance Period;

                  (2)      the aggregate amount of collections in respect of
                           interest on the Loans received by the Servicer during
                           the preceding Remittance Period;

                  (3)      all Mortgage Insurance Proceeds received by the
                           Servicer and not required to be applied to
                           restoration or repair of the related Mortgaged
                           Property during the preceding Remittance Period;

                  (4)      all Net Liquidation Proceeds deposited by the
                           Servicer into the Collection Account during the
                           preceding Remittance Period;

                  (5)      all Released Mortgaged Property Proceeds deposited by
                           the Servicer into the Collection Account during the
                           preceding Remittance Period;

                  (6)      the aggregate amount of all Servicing Advances, set
                           forth separately, made by the Servicer during the
                           preceding Remittance Period;

                  (7)      the aggregate of all amounts deposited into the
                           Collection Account in respect of the repurchase of
                           Unqualified Loans and the repurchase of Loans
                           pursuant to Section 2.05 hereof during the preceding
                           Remittance Period;

                  (8)      the aggregate Principal Balance of all Loans for
                           which a Servicer Call was exercised during the
                           preceding Remittance Period;

                  (9)      the aggregate Principal Balance of all Loans for
                           which a Loan Originator Put was exercised during the
                           preceding Remittance Period;

                  (10)     the aggregate amount of all payments received under
                           Hedging Instruments during the preceding Remittance
                           Period;

                  (11)     the aggregate amount of all withdrawals from the
                           Collection Account pursuant to Section 5.01(c)(1)(i)
                           hereof during the preceding Remittance Period;

                  (12)     the aggregate amount of cash Disposition Proceeds
                           received during the preceding Remittance Period;

                  (13)     withdrawals from the Collection Account in respect of
                           the Servicing Advance Reimbursement Amount with
                           respect to the Payment Date;

                                      -82-
<PAGE>   88
                  (14)     [Reserved];

                  (15)     [Reserved];

                  (16)     the aggregate amount of Liquidated Loan Losses
                           incurred (i) during the preceding Remittance Period,
                           and (ii) during the preceding three Remittance
                           Periods;

                  (17)     the aggregate of the Principal Balances of all Loans
                           in the Loan Pool as of the end of the related
                           Remittance Period;

                  (18)     the aggregate amount of all deposits into the
                           Distribution Account from the Transfer Obligation
                           Account pursuant to Sections 5.05(e), 5.05(f),
                           5.05(g), and 5.05(h) on the preceding Payment Date;

                  (19)     if the Servicer is not Advanta Corp. or an Affiliate
                           thereof, the aggregate amount of distributions in
                           respect of Servicing Compensation to the Servicer,
                           and unpaid Servicing Compensation from prior Payment
                           Dates for the related Payment Date;

                  (20)     the aggregate amount of distributions in respect of
                           Indenture Trustee Fees and unpaid Indenture Trustee
                           Fees from prior Payment Dates for the related Payment
                           Date;

                  (21)     the aggregate amount of distributions in respect of
                           the Custodian Fee and unpaid Custodian Fees from
                           prior Payment Dates for the related Payment Date;

                  (22)     the Unfunded Transfer Obligation and
                           Overcollateralization Shortfall on such Payment Date
                           for the related Payment Date;

                  (23)     the aggregate amount of distributions in respect of
                           Servicing Compensation and unpaid Servicing
                           Compensation from prior Payment Dates, to the
                           Servicer, if Advanta Corp. or an Affiliate thereof is
                           the Servicer, for the related Payment Date;

                  (24)     the aggregate amount of distributions to the Transfer
                           Obligation Account for the related Payment Date;

                  (25)     the aggregate amount of distributions in respect of
                           Trust/Depositor Indemnities for the related Payment
                           Date;

                  (26)     the aggregate amount of distributions to the holders
                           of the Trust Certificates for the related Payment
                           Date;

                  (27)     the Note Principal Balance of the Notes as of the
                           last day of the related Remittance Period (without
                           taking into account any additional Note

                                      -83-
<PAGE>   89
                           Principal Balance between the last day of the related
                           Remittance Period and the Payment Date) before and
                           after giving effect to distributions made to the
                           holders of the Notes for the related Payment Date;

                  (28)     the Pool Principal Balance as of the end of the
                           preceding Remittance Period;

                  (29)     whether a Rapid Amortization Trigger shall exist with
                           respect to such Payment Date;

                  (30)     the aggregate Principal Balance of all HELOC Mortgage
                           Loans as of the end of the related Remittance Period;

                  (31)     the aggregate Principal Balance of all Draw Amounts
                           during the preceding Remittance Period;

                  (32)     the aggregate Principal Balance of Credit Limits on
                           the HELOC Mortgage Loans as of the end of the related
                           Remittance Period; and

                  (33)     the Unfunded Draw Reimbursement Amounts as of the end
                           of the related Remittance Period.

Such Payment Statement shall also be provided on the Remittance Date to the
Initial Noteholder and Indenture Trustee in the form of a magnetic tape or
computer disk in a form mutually agreed to by and between the Initial
Noteholder, the Indenture Trustee and the Servicer. The Indenture Trustee shall
have no duty to monitor the occurrence of a Performance Trigger, Rapid
Amortization Trigger, Collateral Value Excess or any events resulting in
withdrawals from the Transfer Obligation Account.

                  (c) On each Payment Date, the Indenture Trustee shall forward
to the holders of the Securities a copy of the Payment Statement in respect of
such Payment Date, together with such other information as the Indenture Trustee
deems necessary or appropriate.

                  Section 6.02 Specification of Certain Tax Matters.

                  The Indenture Trustee shall comply with all requirements of
the Code and applicable state and local law with respect to the withholding from
any distributions made to any Securityholder of any applicable withholding taxes
imposed thereon and with respect to any applicable reporting requirements in
connection therewith, giving due effect to any applicable exemptions from such
withholding and effective certifications or forms provided by the recipient. Any
amounts withheld pursuant to this Section 6.02 shall be deemed to have been
distributed to the Securityholders, as the case may be, for all purposes of this
Agreement.

                                      -84-
<PAGE>   90
                  Section 6.03 Valuation of Loans, Hedge Value and Retained
                               Securities Value; Market Value Agent.

                  (a) The Issuer hereby irrevocably appoints the Market Value
Agent to determine the Market Value of each Loan, the Hedge Value of each
Hedging Instrument and the Retained Securities Value of all Retained Securities.

                  (b) The Market Value Agent shall determine the Market Value of
each Loan in its sole judgment. In determining the Market Value of each Loan,
the Market Value Agent may consider any information that it may deem relevant
and shall base such determination primarily on the lesser of its estimate of the
projected proceeds from such Loan's inclusion in (i) a Securitization (inclusive
of the projected Retained Securities Value of any Retained Securities to be
issued in connection with such Securitization) and (ii) a Whole Loan Sale, in
each case net of such Loan's ratable share of all costs and fees associated with
such Disposition, including, without limitation, any costs of issuance, sale,
underwriting and funding reserve accounts. The Market Value Agent's
determination, in its sole judgment, of Market Value shall be conclusive and
binding upon the parties hereto, absent manifest error (including without
limitation, any error contemplated in Section 2.08).

                  (c) On each Business Day the Market Value Agent shall
determine in its sole judgment the Hedge Value of each Hedging Instrument as of
such Business Day. In making such determination the Market Value Agent may rely
exclusively on quotations provided by the Hedging Counterparty, by leading
dealers in instruments similar to such Hedging Instrument, which leading dealers
may include the Market Value Agent and its Affiliates and such other sources of
information as the Market Value Agent may deem appropriate.

                  (d) On each Business Day, the Market Value Agent shall
determine in its sole judgment the Retained Securities Value of the Retained
Securities, if any, expected to be issued pursuant to such Securitization as of
the closing date of such Securitization. In making such determination the Market
Value Agent may rely exclusively on quotations provided by leading dealers in
instruments similar to such Retained Securities, which leading dealers may
include the Market Value Agent and its Affiliates and such other sources of
information as the Market Value Agent may deem appropriate.


                                   ARTICLE VII

                                     HEDGING

                  Section 7.01 Hedging Instruments.

                  (a) If the Unfunded Transfer Obligation Percentage is less
than 7%, the Trust, upon request of the Majority Noteholders, shall enter into
such Hedging Instruments as the Market Value Agent, on behalf of the Majority
Noteholders shall determine are necessary, in order to hedge the interest rate
risk with respect to at least 80% of the Collateral Value of fixed rate Loans
acquired by the Trust on or after the date of such request relative to the
expected Disposition Proceeds therefrom. The Market Value Agent shall determine,
in its sole

                                      -85-
<PAGE>   91
discretion, whether any Hedging Instrument conforms to the requirements of
Section 7.01(b), (c) and (d).

                  (b) Each Hedging Instrument shall expressly provide that in
the event of a Disposition or other removal of the Loan from the Trust, such
portion of the Hedging Instrument shall terminate as the Disposition Agent deems
appropriate to facilitate the hedging of the risks specified in Section 7.01(a).
In the event that the Hedging Instrument is not otherwise terminated, it shall
contain provisions that allow the position of the Trust to be assumed by an
Affiliate of the Trust upon the liquidation of the Trust. The terms of the
assignment documentation and the credit quality of the successor to the Trust
shall be subject to the Hedging Counterparty's approval.

                  (c) Any Hedging Instrument that provides for any payment
obligation on the part of the Issuer must (i) be without recourse to the assets
of the Issuer, (ii) contain a non-petition covenant provision in the form of
Section 11.l3, (iii) limit payment dates thereunder to Payment Dates and (iv)
contain a provision limiting any cash payments due on any day under such Hedging
Instrument solely to funds available therefor in the Collection Account on such
day pursuant to Section 5.01(c)(3)(ii) hereof and funds available therefor in
the Transfer Obligation Account.

                  (d) Each Hedging Instrument must (i) provide for the direct
payment of any amounts thereunder to the Collection Account pursuant to Section
5.01(b)(1)(x), (ii) contain an assignment of all of the Issuer's rights (but
none of its obligations) under such Hedging Instrument to the Indenture Trustee
and shall include an express consent to the Hedging Counterparty to such
assignment, (iii) provide that in the event of the occurrence of an Event of
Default, such Hedging Instrument shall terminate upon the direction of the
Majority Noteholders, (iv) prohibit the Hedging Counterparty from "setting-off"
or "netting" other obligations of the Issuer or its Affiliates against such
Hedging Counterparty's payment obligations thereunder, (v) provide that the
appropriate portion of the Hedging Instrument will terminate upon the removal of
the related Loans from the Trust Estate and (vi) have economic terms that are
fixed and not subject to alteration after the date of assumption or execution.

                  (e) If agreed to by the Majority Noteholders, the Issuer may
pledge its assets in order to secure its obligations in respect of Hedge Funding
Requirements, provided that such right shall be limited solely to Hedging
Instruments for which an Affiliate of the Initial Noteholder is a Hedging
Counterparty.


                                  ARTICLE VIII

                                  THE SERVICER

                  Section 8.01 Indemnification; Third Party Claims.

                  (a) The Servicer shall indemnify the Loan Originators, the
Owner Trustee, the Trust, the Depositor, the Indenture Trustee and the
Noteholders, their respective officers, directors, employees, agents and
"control persons," as such term is used under the Act and

                                      -86-
<PAGE>   92
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (each a "Servicer
Indemnified Party") and hold harmless each of them against any and all claims,
losses, damages, penalties, fines, forfeitures, reasonable legal fees and
related costs, judgments, and other costs and expenses resulting from any claim,
demand, defense or assertion based on or grounded upon, or resulting from, a
breach of any of the Servicer's representations and warranties and covenants
contained in this Agreement or in any way relating to the failure of the
Servicer to perform its duties and service the Loans in compliance with the
terms of this Agreement except to the extent such loss arises out of such
Servicer Indemnified Party's gross negligence or willful misconduct; provided,
however, that if the Servicer is not liable pursuant to the provisions of
Section 8.01(d) hereof for its failure to perform its duties and service the
Loans in compliance with the terms of this Agreement, then the provisions of
this Section 8.01 shall have no force and effect with respect to such failure.

                  (b) None of the Loan Originators, the Depositor or the
Servicer or any of their respective Affiliates, directors, officers, employees
or agents shall be under any liability to the Owner Trustee, the Issuer, the
Indenture Trustee or the Securityholders for any action taken, or for refraining
from the taking of any action, in good faith pursuant to this Agreement, or for
errors in judgment; provided, however, that this provision shall not protect the
Loan Originators, the Depositor, the Servicer or any of their respective
Affiliates, directors, officers, employees, agents against the remedies provided
herein for the breach of any warranties, representations or covenants made
herein, or against any expense or liability specifically required to be borne by
such party without right of reimbursement pursuant to the terms hereof, or
against any expense or liability which would otherwise be imposed by reason of
misfeasance, bad faith or negligence in the performance of the respective duties
of the Servicer, the Depositor or the Loan Originators, as the case may be. The
Loan Originators, the Depositor, the Servicer and any of their respective
Affiliates, directors, officers, employees, agents may rely in good faith on any
document of any kind which, prima facie, is properly executed and submitted by
any Person respecting any matters arising hereunder.

                  (c) Each Loan Originator agrees to indemnify and hold harmless
the Depositor and the Noteholders, as the ultimate assignees from the Depositor
(each an "Originator Indemnified Party," together with the Servicer Indemnified
Parties, the "Indemnified Parties"), from and against any loss, liability,
expense, damage, claim or injury arising out of or based on (i) any breach of
any representation, warranty or covenant of the Loan Originators, the Servicer
or their Affiliates, in any Basic Document, including, without limitation, the
origination or prior servicing of the Loans by reason of any acts, omissions, or
alleged acts or omissions arising out of activities of the Loan Originators, the
Servicer or their Affiliates, and (ii) any untrue statement by the Loan
Originators, the Servicer or its Affiliates of any material fact or any such
Person's failure to state a material fact necessary to make such statements not
misleading with respect to any such Person's statements contained in any Basic
Document, including, without limitation, any Officer's Certificate, statement,
report or other document or information prepared by any such Person and
furnished or to be furnished by it pursuant to or in connection with the
transactions contemplated thereby including, without limitation, such written
information as may have been and may be furnished in connection with any due
diligence investigation with respect to the Loans or any such Person's business,
operations or financial condition, including reasonable attorneys' fees and
other costs or

                                      -87-
<PAGE>   93
expenses incurred in connection with the defense of any actual or threatened
action, proceeding or claim; provided that the Loan Originators shall not
indemnify an Originator Indemnified Party to the extent such loss, liability,
expense, damage or injury is due to either an Originator Indemnified Party's
willful misfeasance, bad faith or negligence or by reason of an Originator
Indemnified Party's reckless disregard of its obligations hereunder; provided,
further, that the Loan Originators shall not be so required to indemnify an
Originator Indemnified Party or to otherwise be liable to an Originator
Indemnified Party for any losses in respect of the performance of the Loans, the
creditworthiness of the Borrowers under the Loans, changes in the market value
of the Loans or other, similar investment risks associated with the Loans
arising from a breach of any representation or warranty set forth in Section
3.05(a) or (b) hereof, a remedy for the breach of which is provided in Section
3.06 hereof. The provisions of this indemnity shall run directly to and be
enforceable by an Originator Indemnified Party subject to the limitations
hereof.

                  (d) With respect to a claim subject to indemnity hereunder
made by any Person against an Indemnified Party (a "Third Party Claim"), such
Indemnified Party shall notify the related indemnifying parties (each an
"Indemnifying Party") in writing of the Third Party Claim within a reasonable
time after receipt by such Indemnified Party of written notice of the Third
Party Claim unless the Indemnifying Parties shall have previously obtained
actual knowledge thereof. Thereafter, the Indemnified Party shall deliver to the
Indemnifying Parties, within a reasonable time after the Indemnified Party's
receipt thereof, copies of all notices and documents (including court papers)
received by the Indemnified Party relating to the Third Party Claim. No failure
to give such notice or deliver such documents shall effect the rights to
indemnity hereunder. Each Indemnifying Party shall promptly notify the Indenture
Trustee and the Indemnified Party (if other than the Indenture Trustee) of any
claim of which it has been notified and shall promptly notify the Indenture
Trustee and the Indemnified Party (if applicable) of its intended course of
action with respect to any claim.

                  (e) If a Third Party Claim is made against an Indemnified
Party, (a) the related Indemnifying Party will be entitled to participate in the
defense thereof and, (b) if it so chooses, to assume the defense thereof with
counsel selected by the Indemnifying Party, provided that in connection with
such assumption (i) such counsel is not reasonably objected to by the
Indemnified Party and (ii) the Indemnifying Party first admits in writing its
liability to indemnify the Indemnified Party with respect to all elements of
such claim in full. Should the related Indemnifying Party so elect to assume the
defense of a Third Party Claim, the Indemnifying Party will not be liable to the
Indemnified Party for any legal expenses subsequently incurred by the
Indemnified Party in connection with the defense thereof. If the Indemnifying
Party elects to assume the defense of a Third Party Claim, the Indemnified Party
will (i) cooperate in all reasonable respects with the Indemnifying Party in
connection with such defense and (ii) not admit any liability with respect to,
or settle, compromise or discharge, such Third Party Claim without the
Indemnifying Party' prior written consent, as the case may be. If the
Indemnifying Party shall assume the defense of any Third Party Claim, the
Indemnified Party shall be entitled to participate in (but not control) such
defense with its own counsel at its own expense. If the Indemnifying Party does
not assume the defense of any such Third Party Claim, the Indemnified Party may
defend the same in such manner as it may deem appropriate, including settling
such claim or litigation after giving notice to the

                                      -88-
<PAGE>   94
Indemnifying Party of such terms and the Indemnifying Party will promptly
reimburse the Indemnified Party upon written request. Anything contained in this
Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Indemnifying Party shall not be
entitled to assume the defense of any part of a Third Party Claim that seeks an
order, injunction or other equitable relief or relief for other than money
damages against an Indemnified Party unless the Indemnifying Party has
demonstrated to such Indemnified Party reasonable financial capacity to meet its
obligations with respect to such Third Party Claim.

                  Section 8.02 Merger or Consolidation of the Servicer.

                  The Servicer shall keep in full effect its existence, rights
and franchises as a corporation, and will obtain and preserve its qualification
to do business as a foreign corporation and maintain such other licenses and
permits in each jurisdiction necessary to protect the validity and
enforceability of each Basic Document to which it is a party and each of the
Loans and to perform its duties under each Basic Document to which it is a
party; provided, however, that the Servicer may merge or consolidate with any
other corporation upon the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in the
following paragraph.

                  Any Person into which the Servicer may be merged or
consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or
consolidation to which the Servicer shall be a party, or any Person succeeding
to the business of the Servicer, shall be an Eligible Servicer and shall be the
successor of the Servicer, as applicable hereunder, without the execution or
filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto,
anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding. The Servicer shall send notice
of any such merger, conversion, consolidation or succession to the Indenture
Trustee and the Issuer.

                  Section 8.03 Limitation on Liability of the Servicer and
                               Others.

                  The Servicer and any director, officer, employee or agent of
the Servicer may rely on any document of any kind which it in good faith
reasonably believes to be genuine and to have been adopted or signed by the
proper authorities respecting any matters arising hereunder. Subject to the
terms of Section 8.01 hereof, the Servicer shall have no obligation to appear
with respect to, prosecute or defend any legal action which is not incidental to
the Servicer's duty to service the Loans in accordance with this Agreement.

                  Section 8.04 Servicer Not to Resign; Assignment.

                  The Servicer shall not resign from the obligations and duties
hereby imposed on it except (a) with the consent of the Majority Noteholders or
(b) upon determination that its duties hereunder are no longer permissible under
applicable law. Any such determination pursuant to clause (b) of the preceding
sentence permitting the resignation of the Servicer shall be evidenced by an
Independent opinion of counsel to such effect delivered (at the expense of the
Servicer) to the Indenture Trustee and Majority Noteholders. No resignation of
the Servicer shall become effective until a successor servicer, appointed
pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.02 hereof shall have assumed the
Servicer's responsibilities, duties, liabilities (other than those liabilities
arising prior to the appointment of such successor) and obligations under this
Agreement.

                                      -89-
<PAGE>   95
                  Except as expressly provided herein, the Servicer shall not
assign or transfer any of its rights, benefits or privileges hereunder to any
other Person, or delegate to or subcontract with, or authorize or appoint any
other Person to perform any of the duties, covenants or obligations to be
performed by the Servicer hereunder and any agreement, instrument or act
purporting to effect any such assignment, transfer, delegation or appointment
shall be void.

                  The Servicer agrees to cooperate with any successor Servicer
in effecting the transfer of the Servicer's servicing responsibilities and
rights hereunder pursuant to the first paragraph of this Section 8.04,
including, without limitation, the transfer to such successor of all relevant
records and documents (including any Loan Files in the possession of the
Servicer) and all amounts received with respect to the Loans and not otherwise
permitted to be retained by the Servicer pursuant to this Agreement. In
addition, the Servicer, at its sole cost and expense, shall prepare, execute and
deliver any and all documents and instruments to the successor Servicer
including all Loan Files in its possession and do or accomplish all other acts
necessary or appropriate to effect such termination and transfer of servicing
responsibilities.

                  Section 8.05 Relationship of Servicer to Issuer and the
                               Indenture Trustee.

                  The relationship of the Servicer (and of any successor to the
Servicer as servicer under this Agreement) to the Issuer, the Owner Trustee and
the Indenture Trustee under this Agreement is intended by the parties hereto to
be that of an independent contractor and not of a joint venturer, agent or
partner of the Issuer, the Owner Trustee or the Indenture Trustee.

                  Section 8.06 Servicer May Own Securities.

                  Each of the Servicer and any Affiliate of the Servicer may in
its individual or any other capacity become the owner or pledgee of Securities
with the same rights as it would have if it were not the Servicer or an
Affiliate thereof except as otherwise specifically provided herein; provided,
however, that at any time that AMCUSA or any of its Affiliates is the Servicer,
neither the Servicer nor any of its Affiliates (other than an Affiliate which is
a corporation whose purpose is limited to holding securities and related
activities and which cannot incur recourse debt) may be a Noteholder. Securities
so owned by or pledged to the Servicer or such Affiliate shall have an equal and
proportionate benefit under the provisions of this Agreement, without
preference, priority, or distinction as among all of the Securities; provided,
however, that any Securities owned by the Servicer or any Affiliate thereof,
during the time such Securities are owned by them, shall be without voting
rights for any purpose set forth in this Agreement unless the Servicer or such
Affiliate owns all outstanding Securities of the related class. The Servicer
shall notify the Indenture Trustee promptly after it or any of its Affiliates
becomes the owner or pledgee of a Security.

                  Section 8.07 Indemnification of the Indenture Trustee and
                               Initial Noteholder.

                  The Servicer agrees to indemnify the Indenture Trustee and its
employees, officers, directors and agents, and reimburse its reasonable
out-of-pocket expenses in accordance with Section 6.07 of the Indenture as if it
was a signatory thereto. The Servicer

                                      -90-
<PAGE>   96
agrees to indemnify the Initial Noteholder in accordance with Section 9.01 of
the Note Purchase Agreement as if it were signatory thereto.


                                   ARTICLE IX

                           SERVICER EVENTS OF DEFAULT

                  Section 9.01 Servicer Events of Default.

                  (a) In case one or more of the following Servicer Events of
Default by the Servicer shall occur and be continuing, that is to say:

                  (i) any failure by Servicer to deposit (A) into the Collection
         Account in accordance with Section 5.01(b) any amount required to be
         deposited by it under any Basic Document to which it is a party, which
         failure continues unremedied for two Business Days following the date
         on which such deposit was first requested to be made, which failure
         continues unremedied until 12:00 p.m. New York City time on the
         Business Day following such day; or

                  (ii) any failure on the part of the Servicer duly to observe
         or perform in any material respect any other of the material covenants
         or agreements on the part of the Servicer, contained in any Basic
         Document to which it is a party, which continues unremedied for a
         period of 30 days (or, in the case of payment of insurance premiums,
         for a period of 15 days) after the date on which written notice of such
         failure, requiring the same to be remedied, shall have been given to
         the Servicer by any other party hereto or to the Servicer (with copy to
         each other party hereto), by Holders of 25% of the Percentage Interests
         of the Notes or the Trust Certificates; or

                  (iii) any breach on the part of the Servicer of any
         representation or warranty contained in any Basic Document to which it
         is a party that materially and adversely affects the interests of any
         of the parties hereto or any Securityholder and which continues
         unremedied for a period of 30 days after the date on which notice of
         such breach, requiring the same to be remedied, shall have been given
         to the Servicer by any other party hereto or to the Servicer (with copy
         to each other party hereto), by the Initial Noteholder or Holders of
         25% of the Percentage Interests (as defined in the Indenture) of the
         Notes; or

                  (iv) there shall have been commenced before a court or agency
         or supervisory authority having jurisdiction in the premises an
         involuntary proceeding against the Servicer under any present or future
         federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law for the
         appointment of a conservator, receiver, liquidator, trustee or similar
         official in any bankruptcy, insolvency, readjustment of debt,
         marshaling of assets and liabilities or similar proceedings, or for the
         winding-up or liquidation of its affairs, which action shall not have
         been dismissed for a period of 60 days; or

                                      -91-
<PAGE>   97
                  (v) the Servicer shall consent to the appointment of a
         conservator, receiver, liquidator, trustee or similar official in any
         bankruptcy, insolvency, readjustment of debt, marshaling of assets and
         liabilities or similar proceedings of or relating to it or of or
         relating to all or substantially all of its property; or

                  (vi) the Servicer shall admit in writing its inability to pay
         its debts generally as they become due, file a petition to take
         advantage of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization
         statute, make an assignment for the benefit of its creditors,
         voluntarily suspend payment of its obligations, or take any corporate
         action in furtherance of the foregoing.

                  (b) Then, and in each and every such case, so long as an
Servicer Event of Default shall not have been remedied, the Indenture Trustee or
the Majority Noteholders, by notice in writing to the Servicer may, in addition
to whatever rights such Person may have at law or in equity to damages,
including injunctive relief and specific performance, may terminate all the
rights and obligations of the Servicer under this Agreement and in and to the
Loans and the proceeds thereof, as servicer under this Agreement. Upon receipt
by the Servicer of such written notice, all authority and power of the Servicer
under this Agreement, whether with respect to the Loans or otherwise, shall,
subject to Section 9.02 hereof, pass to and be vested in a successor servicer,
and the successor servicer is hereby authorized and empowered to execute and
deliver, on behalf of the Servicer, as attorney-in-fact or otherwise, any and
all documents and other instruments and do or cause to be done all other acts or
things necessary or appropriate to effect the purposes of such notice of
termination, including, but not limited to, the transfer and endorsement or
assignment of the Loans and related documents. The Servicer agrees to cooperate
with the successor servicer in effecting the termination of the Servicer's
responsibilities and rights hereunder, including, without limitation, the
transfer to the successor servicer for administration by it of all amounts which
shall at the time be credited by the Servicer to each Collection Account or
thereafter received with respect to the Loans.

                  Section 9.02 Appointment of Successor.

                  On and after the date the Servicer receives a notice of
termination pursuant to Section 9.01 hereof, or the Owner Trustee receives the
resignation of the Servicer evidenced by an Opinion of Counsel or accompanied by
the consents required by Section 8.04 hereof, or the Servicer is removed as
servicer pursuant to this Article IX or Section 4.01(i), then, the Majority
Noteholders shall appoint a successor servicer to be the successor in all
respects to the Servicer in its capacity as Servicer under this Agreement and
the transactions set forth or provided for herein and shall be subject to all
the responsibilities, duties and liabilities relating thereto placed on the
Servicer by the terms and provisions hereof; provided, however, that the
successor servicer shall not be liable for any actions of any servicer prior to
it.

                  The successor servicer shall be obligated to make Servicing
Advances hereunder. As compensation therefor, the successor servicer appointed
pursuant to the following paragraph, shall be entitled to all funds relating to
the Loans which the Servicer would have been entitled to receive from the
Collection Account pursuant to Section 5.01(c) hereof as if the Servicer had
continued to act as servicer hereunder, together with other

                                      -92-
<PAGE>   98
Servicing Compensation in the form of assumption fees, late payment charges or
otherwise as provided in Section 4.16 hereof. The Servicer shall not be entitled
to any termination fee if it is terminated pursuant to Section 9.01 hereof but
shall be entitled to any accrued and unpaid Servicing Compensation to the date
of termination.

                  Any collections received by the Servicer after removal or
resignation shall be endorsed by it to the Indenture Trustee and remitted
directly to the successor servicer. The compensation of any successor servicer
appointed shall be the Servicing Fee, together with other Servicing Compensation
provided for herein. The Indenture Trustee, the Issuer, any Custodian, the
Servicer and any such successor servicer shall take such action, consistent with
this Agreement, as shall be reasonably necessary to effect any such succession.
Any costs or expenses incurred by the Indenture Trustee in connection with the
termination of the Servicer and the succession of a successor servicer shall be
an expense of the outgoing Servicer and, to the extent not paid thereby, an
expense of such successor servicer. The Servicer agrees to cooperate with the
Indenture Trustee and any successor servicer in effecting the termination of the
Servicer's servicing responsibilities and rights hereunder and shall promptly
provide the successor servicer all documents and records reasonably requested by
it to enable it to assume the Servicer's functions hereunder and shall promptly
also transfer to the successor servicer all amounts which then have been or
should have been deposited in any Trust Account maintained by the Servicer or
which are thereafter received with respect to the Loans. Upon the occurrence of
an Event of Default, the Majority Noteholders shall have the right to order the
Servicer's Loan Files and all other files of the Servicer relating to the Loans
and all other records of the Servicer and all documents relating to the Loans
which are then or may thereafter come into the possession of the Servicer or any
third party acting for the Servicer to be delivered to such custodian or
servicer as it selects and the Servicer shall deliver to such custodian or
servicer such assignments as the Majority Noteholders shall request. No
successor servicer shall be held liable by reason of any failure to make, or any
delay in making, any distribution hereunder or any portion thereof caused by (i)
the failure of the Servicer to deliver, or any delay in delivering, cash,
documents or records to it or (ii) restrictions imposed by any regulatory
authority having jurisdiction over the Servicer hereunder. No appointment of a
successor to the Servicer hereunder shall be effective until written notice of
such proposed appointment shall have been provided by the Indenture Trustee to
the Initial Noteholder, the Issuer and the Depositor, ANB, ABC, the Majority
Noteholders and the Issuer shall have consented in writing thereto.

                  In connection with such appointment and assumption, the
Majority Noteholder may make such arrangements for the compensation of such
successor servicer out of payments on the Loans as they and such successor
servicer shall agree.

                  Section 9.03 Waiver of Defaults.

                  The Majority Noteholders may waive any events permitting
removal of the Servicer as servicer pursuant to this Article IX. Upon any waiver
of a past default, such default shall cease to exist and any Servicer Event of
Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been remedied for every
purpose of this Agreement. No such waiver shall extend to

                                      -93-
<PAGE>   99
any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereto except to
the extent expressly so waived.

                  Section 9.04 Accounting Upon Termination of Servicer.

                  Upon termination of the Servicer under this Article IX, the
Servicer shall, at its own expense:

                  (a) deliver to its successor or, if none shall yet have been
appointed, to the Indenture Trustee the funds in any Trust Account maintained by
the Servicer;

                  (b) deliver to its successor or, if none shall yet have been
appointed, to the Indenture Trustee all Loan Files and related documents and
statements held by it hereunder and a Loan portfolio computer tape;

                  (c) deliver to its successor or, if none shall yet have been
appointed, to the Indenture Trustee and to the Issuer and the Securityholders a
full accounting of all funds, including a statement showing the Monthly Payments
collected by it and a statement of monies held in trust by it for payments or
charges with respect to the Loans; and

                  (d) execute and deliver such instruments and perform all acts
reasonably requested in order to effect the orderly and efficient transfer of
servicing of the Loans to its successor and to more fully and definitively vest
in such successor all rights, powers, duties, responsibilities, obligations and
liabilities of the Servicer under this Agreement.


                                    ARTICLE X

                             TERMINATION; PUT OPTION

                  Section 10.01 Termination.

                  (a) This Agreement shall terminate upon either: (a) the later
of (i) the satisfaction and discharge of the Indenture and the provisions
thereof, to the Noteholders of all amounts due and owing in accordance with the
provisions hereof or (ii) the disposition of all funds with respect to the last
Loan and the remittance of all funds due hereunder and the payment of all
amounts due and payable, including, in both cases, without limitation,
indemnification payments payable pursuant to any Basic Document to the Indenture
Trustee, the Owner Trustee, the Issuer and the Custodian, written notice of the
occurrence of either of which shall be provided to the Indenture Trustee by the
Servicer; or (b) the mutual consent of the Servicer, the Depositor, ANB, ABC and
all Securityholders in writing and delivered to the Indenture Trustee by the
Servicer.

                  (b) The Securities shall be subject to an early redemption or
termination at the option of the Majority Noteholders in the manner and subject
to the provisions of Section 10.02 of this Agreement.

                                      -94-
<PAGE>   100
                  (c) Except as provided in Sections 10.01 and 10.02, none of
the Depositor, the Servicer nor any Noteholder shall be entitled to revoke or
terminate the Trust.

                  Section 10.02 Optional Termination

                  (a) The Majority Certificateholders may, at their option,
effect an early termination of the Trust on any Payment Date on or after the
Clean-up Call Date. The Majority Certificateholders shall effect such early
termination by providing notice thereof to the Indenture Trustee and Owner
Trustee and by purchasing all of the Loans at a purchase price, payable in cash,
equal to or greater than the Termination Price. The expense of any Independent
appraiser required under this Section 10.02 shall be a nonreimbursable expense
of the Majority Certificateholders.

                  Any such early termination by the Majority Certificateholders
shall be accomplished by depositing into the Collection Account on the third
Business Day prior to the Payment Date on which the purchase is to occur the
amount of the Termination Price to be paid. The Termination Price and any
amounts then on deposit in the Collection Account (other than any amounts
withdrawable pursuant to Section 5.01(c)(1) hereof) shall be distributed by the
Indenture Trustee pursuant to Section 5.01(c)(3) of this Agreement and Section
9.1 of the Trust Agreement on the next succeeding Payment Date; and any amounts
received with respect to the Loans and Foreclosure Properties subsequent to the
final Payment Date shall belong to the purchaser thereof.

                  Section 10.03 Notice of Termination.

                  Notice of termination of this Agreement or of early redemption
and termination of the Issuer pursuant to Section 10.01 shall be sent by the
Indenture Trustee to the Noteholders in accordance with Section 10.02 of the
Indenture.

                  Section 10.04 Put Option.

                  The Majority Noteholders may, at their option, effect a put of
the entire outstanding Note Principal Balance, or any portion thereof, to the
Trust on any Payment Date by exercise of the Put Option. The Majority
Noteholders shall effect such put by providing notice thereof in accordance with
Section 10.05 of the Indenture.

                  On the third Business Day prior to the Payment Date on which
the exercise of the Put Option is to occur the Issuer shall deposit the Note
Redemption Amount into the Collection Account and any amounts then on deposit in
the Collection Account (other than any amounts withdrawable pursuant to Section
5.01(c)(1) hereof) shall be distributed by the Indenture Trustee pursuant to
Section 5.01(c)(3) of this Agreement on the next succeeding Payment Date; and
any amounts received with respect to the Loans and Foreclosure Properties
subsequent to the final Payment Date shall belong to the Issuer.

                                      -95-
<PAGE>   101
                                   ARTICLE XI

                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

                  Section 11.01 Acts of Securityholders.

                  Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, whenever
action, consent or approval of the Securityholders is required under this
Agreement, such action, consent or approval shall be deemed to have been taken
or given on behalf of, and shall be binding upon, all Securityholders if the
Majority Noteholders agree to take such action or give such consent or approval.

                  Section 11.02 Amendment.

                  (a) This Agreement may be amended from time to time by the
Depositor, the Servicer, the Loan Originators, the Indenture Trustee and the
Issuer by written agreement with notice thereof to the Securityholders, without
the consent of any of the Securityholders, to cure any error or ambiguity, to
correct or supplement any provisions hereof which may be defective or
inconsistent with any other provisions hereof or to add any other provisions
with respect to matters or questions arising under this Agreement; provided,
however, that such action will not adversely affect in any material respect the
interests of the Securityholders. An amendment described above shall be deemed
not to adversely affect in any material respect the interests of the
Securityholders if an Opinion of Counsel is obtained to such effect.

                  (b) This Agreement may also be amended from time to time by
the Depositor, the Servicer, the Loan Originators, the Indenture Trustee and the
Issuer by written agreement, with the prior written consent of the Majority
Noteholders, for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any
manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Agreement, or of modifying
in any manner the rights of the Securityholders; provided, however, that no such
amendment shall (i) reduce in any manner the amount of, or delay the timing of,
collections of payments on Loans or distributions which are required to be made
on any Security, without the consent of the holders of 100% of the Securities,
(ii) adversely affect in any material respect the interests of any of the
holders of the Securities in any manner other than as described in clause (i),
without the consent of the holders of 100% of the Securities, or (iii) reduce
the percentage of the Securities, the consent of which is required for any such
amendment, without the consent of the holders of 100% of the Securities.

                  (c) It shall not be necessary for the consent of
Securityholders under this Section to approve the particular form of any
proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the
substance thereof.

                  Prior to the execution of any amendment to this Agreement, the
Issuer and the Indenture Trustee shall be entitled to receive and rely upon an
Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such amendment is authorized or
permitted by this Agreement. The Issuer and the Indenture Trustee may, but shall
not be obligated to, enter into any such amendment which affects the Issuer's
own rights, duties or immunities of the Issuer or the Indenture Trustee, as the
case may be, under this Agreement.

                                      -96-
<PAGE>   102
                  Section 11.03 Recordation of Agreement.

                  To the extent permitted by applicable law, this Agreement, or
a memorandum thereof if permitted under applicable law, is subject to
recordation in all appropriate public offices for real property records in all
of the counties or other comparable jurisdictions in which any or all of the
Mortgaged Property is situated, and in any other appropriate public recording
office or elsewhere, such recordation to be effected by the Servicer at the
Securityholders' expense on direction of the Majority Noteholders but only when
accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such recordation
materially and beneficially affects the interests of the Securityholders or is
necessary for the administration or servicing of the Loans.

                  Section 11.04 Duration of Agreement.

                  This Agreement shall continue in existence and effect until
terminated as herein provided.

                  Section 11.05 Governing Law.

                  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS
OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND THE OBLIGATIONS, RIGHTS AND REMEDIES OF THE PARTIES
HEREUNDER SHALL BE DETERMINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUCH LAWS, WITHOUT GIVING
EFFECT TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW.

                  Section 11.06 Notices.

                  All demands, notices and communications hereunder shall be in
writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if (i) delivered personally,
mailed by overnight mail, certified mail or registered mail, postage prepaid, or
(ii) transmitted by telecopy, upon telephone confirmation of receipt thereof
(with a copy delivered by overnight courier), as follows: (I) in the case of the
Depositor, to Advanta Conduit Receivables Inc., Welsh & McKean Roads, Spring
Hill, Pennsylvania 19477, Attention: Susan McVeigh, telecopy number: (215)
444-5051, telephone number: (215) 323-4586, or such other addresses or telecopy
or telephone numbers as may hereafter be furnished to the Securityholders and
the other parties hereto in writing by the Depositor; (II) in the case of the
Trust, to Advanta Home Equity Loan Owner Trust 1998-MS1, c/o Wilmington Trust
Company, One Rodney Square North, 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware
19890, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, telecopy number: (302)
651-8882, telephone number: (302) 651-1000, or such other address or telecopy or
telephone numbers as may hereafter be furnished to the Noteholders and the other
parties hereto in writing by the Trust; (III) in the case of the Transfer
Obligor, to Advanta Corp., Welsh & McKean Roads, Spring House, Pennsylvania
19477, Attention: Philip M. Browne, telecopy number: (215) 444-5915, telephone
number: (215) 444-5060 or such other addresses or telecopy or telephone numbers
as may hereafter be furnished to the Securityholders and the other parties
hereto in writing by the Transfer Obligor, (IV) in the case of the Loan
Originators, to Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA, Welsh & McKean Roads, Spring House,
Pennsylvania 19477, Attention: Attention: Susan McVeigh, telecopy number: (215)
444-5051, telephone number: (215) 323-4586, and/or to Advanta National Bank, One
Righter Parkway, Wilmington, DE 19803, Attention: Attention: Susan McVeigh,

                                      -97-
<PAGE>   103
telecopy number: (215) 444-5051, telephone number: (215) 323-4586, and/or to
Advanta Bank Corp., Welsh & McKean Roads, Spring House, Pennsylvania 19477,
Attention: Attention: Susan McVeigh, telecopy number: (215) 444-5051, telephone
number: (215) 323-4586, or such other addresses or telecopy or telephone numbers
as may hereafter be furnished to the Securityholders and the other parties
hereto in writing by the Loan Originators, (V) in the case of the Servicer, to
Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA, Welsh & McKean Roads, Spring House, Pennsylvania
19477, Attention: Attention: Susan McVeigh, telecopy number: (215) 444-5051,
telephone number: (215) 323-4586, or such other addresses or telecopy or
telephone numbers as may hereafter be furnished to the Securityholders and the
other parties hereto in writing by the Servicer; and, (VI) in the case of the
Indenture Trustee, at the Corporate Trust Office, as defined in the Indenture,
any such notices shall be deemed to be effective with respect to any party
hereto upon the receipt of such notice or telephone confirmation thereof by such
party, except; provided, that notices to the Securityholders shall be effective
upon mailing or personal delivery.

                  Section 11.07 Severability of Provisions.

                  If any one or more of the covenants, agreements, provisions or
terms of this Agreement shall be held invalid for any reason whatsoever, then
such covenants, agreements, provisions or terms shall be deemed severable from
the remaining covenants, agreements, provisions or terms of this Agreement and
shall in no way affect the validity or enforceability of the other covenants,
agreements, provisions or terms of this Agreement.

                  Section 11.08 No Partnership.

                  Nothing herein contained shall be deemed or construed to
create any partnership or joint venture between the parties hereto and the
services of the Servicer shall be rendered as an independent contractor.

                  Section 11.09 Counterparts.

                  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts and
by the different parties hereto on separate counterparts, each of which, when so
executed, shall be deemed to be an original; such counterparts, together, shall
constitute one and the same Agreement.

                  Section 11.10 Successors and Assigns.

                  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding
upon the Servicer, the Loan Originators, the Depositor, the Indenture Trustee,
the Issuer and the Securityholders and their respective successors and permitted
assigns.

                                      -98-
<PAGE>   104
                  Section 11.11 Headings.

                  The headings of the various Sections of this Agreement have
been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to be
part of this Agreement.

                  Section 11.12 Actions of Securityholders.

                  (a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice,
consent, waiver or other action provided by this Agreement to be given or taken
by Securityholders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments
of substantially similar tenor signed by such Securityholders in person or by
agent duly appointed in writing; and except as herein otherwise expressly
provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments
are delivered to the Depositor, ANB, ABC, the Servicer or the Issuer. Proof of
execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall
be sufficient for any purpose of this Agreement and conclusive in favor of the
Depositor, ANB, ABC, the Servicer and the Issuer if made in the manner provided
in this Section 11.12.

                  (b) The fact and date of the execution by any Securityholder
of any such instrument or writing may be proved in any reasonable manner which
the Depositor, ABC, ANB the Servicer or the Issuer may deem sufficient.

                  (c) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice,
consent, waiver or other act by a Securityholder shall bind every holder of
every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange
therefor or in lieu thereof, in respect of anything done, or omitted to be done,
by the Depositor, ANB, ABC, the Servicer or the Issuer in reliance thereon,
whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.

                  (d) The Depositor, ANB, ABC, the Servicer or the Issuer may
require additional proof of any matter referred to in this Section 11.12 as it
shall deem necessary.

                  Section 11.13 Non-Petition Agreement.

                  Notwithstanding any prior termination of any Basic Document,
the Loan Originators, the Transfer Obligor, the Servicer, the Depositor and the
Indenture Trustee each severally and not jointly covenants that it shall not,
prior to the date which is one year and one day after the payment in full of the
all of the Notes, acquiesce, petition or otherwise, directly or indirectly,
invoke or cause the Trust or the Depositor to invoke the process of any
governmental authority for the purpose of commencing or sustaining a case
against the Issuer or Depositor under any Federal or state bankruptcy,
insolvency or similar law or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee,
trustee, custodian, sequestrator or other similar official of the Issuer or
Depositor or any substantial part of their respective property or ordering the
winding up or liquidation of the affairs of the Issuer or the Depositor.

                                      -99-
<PAGE>   105
                  Section 11.14 Holders of the Certificates.

                  (a) Any sums to be distributed or otherwise paid hereunder or
under this Agreement to the holders of the Securities shall be paid to such
holders pro rata based on their Percentage Interests;

                  (b) Where any act or event hereunder is expressed to be
subject to the consent or approval of the holders of the Securities, such
consent or approval shall be capable of being given by the holder or holders
evidencing in the aggregate not less than 51% of the Percentage Interests.

                  Section 11.15 Due Diligence Fees, Due Diligence.

                  Each Loan Originator acknowledges that the Initial Noteholder
has the right to perform continuing due diligence reviews with respect to the
Loans, for purposes of verifying compliance with the representations, warranties
and specifications made hereunder, or otherwise, and each Loan Originator agrees
that upon reasonable (but no less than 10 Business Days') prior notice (with no
notice being required upon the occurrence of an Event of Default) to any Loan
Originator, the Initial Noteholder, the Indenture Trustee and Custodian or its
authorized representatives will be permitted during normal business hours to
examine, inspect, and make copies and extracts of, the Loan Files and any and
all documents, records, agreements, instruments or information relating to such
Loans in the possession or under the control of the Servicer and the Indenture
Trustee. The Loan Originators also shall make available to the Initial
Noteholder a knowledgeable financial or accounting officer for the purpose of
answering questions respecting the Loan Files and the Loans. Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, each Loan Originator acknowledges that the
Initial Noteholder may purchase Notes based solely upon the information provided
by the Loan Originators to the Initial Noteholder in the Loan Schedule and the
representations, warranties and covenants contained herein, and that the Initial
Noteholder, at its option, has the right at any time to conduct a partial or
complete due diligence review on some or all of the Loans securing such
purchase, including without limitation ordering new credit reports and new
appraisals on the related Mortgaged Properties and otherwise re-generating the
information used to originate such Loan. The Initial Noteholder may underwrite
such Loans itself or engage a mutually agreed upon third party underwriter to
perform such underwriting. Each Loan Originator agrees to cooperate with the
Initial Noteholder and any third party underwriter in connection with such
underwriting, including, but not limited to, providing the Initial Noteholder
and any third party underwriter with access to any and all documents, records,
agreements, instruments or information relating to such Loans in the possession,
or under the control, of the Servicer. Each Loan Originator further agrees that
the Loan Originators shall reimburse the Initial Noteholder for any and all
reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by the Initial Noteholder
in connection with the Initial Noteholder's activities pursuant to this Section
11.15 hereof (the "Due Diligence Fees"), provided that, unless an Event of
Default shall occur, the sum of (i) the aggregate reimbursement obligation of
the Loan Originators under this Agreement, and (ii) the reimbursement obligation
of Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Inc. pursuant to the Warehouse Lines, shall
be limited to $25,000 per annum. The Initial Noteholder agrees (on behalf of
itself and its Affiliates, directors, officers, employees and

                                     -100-
<PAGE>   106
representatives) to use reasonable precaution to keep confidential, in
accordance with its customary procedures for handling confidential information
and in accordance with safe and sound practices, and not to disclose to any
third party, any non-public information supplied to it or otherwise obtained by
it hereunder with respect to any of the Loan Originators, Advanta Corp. or any
of its Affiliates; provided, however, that nothing herein shall prohibit the
disclosure of any such information to the extent required by statute, rule,
regulation or judicial process; provided, further that, unless specifically
prohibited by applicable law or court order, the Initial Noteholder shall, prior
to disclosure thereof, notify Loan Originators of any request for disclosure of
any such non-public information. The Initial Noteholder further agrees not to
use any such non-public information for any purpose unrelated to this Agreement.

                  Section 11.16 Liability. AMCUSA shall be liable for all
obligations of the Loan Originators set forth in this Agreement.

                  Section 11.17 Confidential Information. All Confidential
Information (as defined below) will be held and treated by each Noteholder in
confidence and will not, without the prior written consent of the Servicer be
disclosed or used by such Noteholder or its directors, officers, employees,
agents or controlling persons ("Information Recipients") other than in
connection with the Basic Documents. Each Noteholder agrees to disclose
Confidential Information only to its Information Recipients who need to know it
for purposes of the Basic Documents and who are informed by such Noteholder of
its confidential nature and who agree to be bound by the terms of this Section
11.17. Disclosure that is not in violation of the Right to Financial Privacy Act
or other applicable law by such Noteholder of any Confidential Information at
the request of any of its auditors, governmental regulatory authorities or
self-regulatory authorities in connection with an examination of a Noteholder by
any such authority shall not constitute a breach of its obligations under this
Section 11.17 and shall not require the prior consent of the Servicer. Each
Noteholder shall be responsible for any breach of this Section 11.17 by its
Information Recipients. The Initial Noteholder may use Confidential Information
for internal due diligence purposes in connection with its analysis of the
transactions contemplated by the Basic Documents. The Disposition Agent may
disclose Confidential Information to Disposition Participants as required to
effect Dispositions. This Section 11.17 shall terminate upon the occurrence of
an Event of Default. As used herein, "Confidential Information" means all
information, whether in electronic or written form concerning the Servicer or
any Loan Originator, any client or customer list of the Servicer or any Loan
Originator, including, but not limited to, all information relating to the
Loans, individual Borrowers, the Loans and the Promissory Notes, in each case
which the Servicer or any Loan Originator made available to such Noteholder,
together with analyses, statistics or compilations or other documents, which
contain or otherwise reflect such information. Confidential Information shall
not include information which (i) is or becomes generally available to the
public other than as a result of a disclosure by such Noteholder or any
Information Recipients; (ii) was available to such Noteholder on a
non-confidential basis prior to its disclosure to such Noteholder by the
Servicer or such Loan Originator; (iii) required to be disclosed by a
governmental authority or related governmental agencies, auditors, accountants
or as otherwise required by law; or (iv) becomes available to such Noteholder on
a non-confidential basis from a person other than the Servicer or any Loan
Originator who, to the best knowledge of such Noteholder, is not otherwise bound
by a confidentiality agreement

                                     -101-
<PAGE>   107
with the Servicer or any Loan Originator or is not otherwise prohibited from
transmitting the information to such Noteholder.

                  Section 11.18 Servicer to Provide Information to Loan
Originator. The Servicer, as appropriate, will provide the Loan Originator such
information as may be required to make representations and warranties required
of them. The Servicer hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Loan
Originator from and against any loss, liability, expense, damage, claim or
injury arising out of or based on any breach of any representation or warranty
relating to information provided by the Servicer, or out of the failure of the
Servicer to provide such required information.

                            [SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]

                                     -102-
<PAGE>   108
                  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer, the Depositor, the Servicer,
the Indenture Trustee, the Loan Originators and the Transfer Obligor have caused
their names to be signed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized,
as of the day and year first above written, to this Amended and Restated Sale
And Servicing Agreement.


                                       ADVANTA HOME EQUITY LOAN OWNER TRUST
                                       1998-MS1,

                                       By:   Wilmington Trust Company
                                             not in its individual capacity
                                             but solely as Owner Trustee


                                             By:* /s/
                                                -------------------------------
                                                Name:
                                                Title:


                                       ADVANTA CONDUIT RECEIVABLES INC.,
                                         as Depositor


                                             By:  /s/
                                                -------------------------------
                                                Name:
                                                Title:


                                       ADVANTA MORTGAGE CORP. USA,
                                         as Servicer


                                             By:  /s/
                                                -------------------------------
                                                Name:
                                                Title:


                                       BANKERS TRUST COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA,
                                         N.A., as Indenture Trustee


                                             By:  /s/
                                                -------------------------------
                                                Name:
                                                Title:
<PAGE>   109
                                       ADVANTA CORP.,
                                         as Transfer Obligor


                                       By:  /s/
                                          -------------------------------
                                          Name:
                                          Title:


                                       ADVANTA MORTGAGE CORP. USA,
                                         as Loan Originator


                                       By:  /s/
                                          -------------------------------
                                          Name:
                                          Title:


                                       ADVANTA NATIONAL BANK,
                                         as Loan Originator


                                       By:  /s/
                                          -------------------------------
                                          Name:
                                          Title:



                                       ADVANTA BANK CORP.,
                                         as Loan Originator


                                       By:  /s/
                                          -------------------------------
                                          Name:
                                          Title:
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                      Exhibit 12

                         ADVANTA CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

             Statement setting forth details of computation of ratio
                          of earnings to fixed charges

                COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
($ in thousands)                                                  For The Years Ended December 31,
                                         ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            1999                1998               1997              1996              1995
                                         ---------           ---------           --------          --------          --------
<S>                                      <C>                 <C>                 <C>               <C>               <C>
Net earnings                              $ 49,818           $ 447,880           $ 71,625          $175,657          $136,677
Federal and state income taxes             (50,272)             (9,044)            24,905            89,104            75,226
                                         ---------           ---------           --------          --------          --------
Earnings before income taxes                  (454)            438,836 (A)         96,530           264,761           211,903
                                         ---------           ---------           --------          --------          --------

Fixed charges:
   Interest                                167,676             184,275            324,558           269,700           166,032
   One-third of all rentals                  3,124               2,627              3,492             2,834             1,641
   Preferred stock dividend of
        subsidiary trust                     8,990               8,990              8,990               350                 0
                                         ---------           ---------           --------          --------          --------
  Total fixed charges                      179,790             195,892            337,040           272,884           167,673
                                         ---------           ---------           --------          --------          --------

  Earnings before income
        taxes and fixed charges           $179,336           $ 634,728           $433,570          $537,645          $379,576
                                         ---------           ---------           --------          --------          --------

  Ratio of earnings to fixed
        charges (B)                          1.00x               3.24x              1.29x             1.97x             2.26x
</TABLE>


(A)  Earnings before income taxes in 1998 included a $541.3 million gain on the
     transfer of the consumer credit card business and $125.1 million of unusual
     charges including severance and outplacement costs associated with
     workforce reduction, option exercise and other employee costs associated
     with the Consumer Credit Card Transaction/Tender Offer; expense associated
     with exited businesses/products; and asset impairment.

(B)  For purposes of computing these ratios, "earnings" represent income before
     income taxes plus fixed charges. "Fixed charges" consist of interest
     expense, one-third (the portion deemed representative of the interest
     factor) of rental expense on operating leases, and preferred stock
     dividends of subsidiary trust.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                      EXHIBIT 21

                   CURRENT LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT

Advanta Corp. (DE)
         Advanta Residual Holding Corp. (DE)
         Advanta National Corp. (DE)
              Advanta National Bank
         Advanta Bank Corp. (UT)
              Advanta Leasing Receivables Corp. VI (NV)
              Advanta Leasing Receivables Corp. VII (NV)
              Advanta Business Receivables Corp. (NV)
         Advanta GP Corp. (DE)
              Advanta 101 GP Corp. (DE)
         Advanta Investment Corp. (DE)
         Advanta Investment Corp. II (DE)
         Advanta Information Services, Inc. (DE)
         Advanta International Corporation I (DE)
         Advanta International Corporation II (DE)
         Advanta Leasing Holding Corp. (DE)
              Advanta Business Services Corp. (DE)
                  Advanta Leasing Receivables Corp. (DE)
                  Advanta Leasing Receivables Corp. II (DE)
                  Advanta Leasing Receivables Corp. III (NV)
                      Advanta Business Receivables LLC (NV)
                  Advanta Leasing Receivables Corp. IV (NV)
                  Advanta Leasing Receivables Corp. V (NV)
                  Advanta Leasing Receivables Corp. VIII (NV)
                  Advanta Leasing Receivables Corp. IX (NV)
                  Advanta Commercial Credit Corp. (NV)
                  Mt. Vernon Leasing, Inc. (NJ)
         Service Partners I Corp. (NV)
         Service Partners II Corp. (NV)
         Advanta Service Corp. (DE)
         Coltex Leverage Lease Corporation I (DE)
         TSLL Jedobert Cal, Inc. (DE)
         Advanta Properties I Corp. (PA)
         Advanta Properties II Corp. (PA)
         Advanta Life Insurance Company (AZ)
         Advanta Insurance Company (AZ)
              Advanta Insurance Agency Inc. (DE)
              First Advanta Insurance Agency Inc. (PA)
         AICM, Inc. (AZ)
         Advanta Name Corp. (DE)
         Advanta Advertising, Inc. (DE)
              ADVANTENNIS Corp. (DE)
         Advanta Mortgage Holding Company (DE)
              Advanta Auto Finance Corporation (NV)
                  Advanta Auto Receivables Corp. I (NV)
              Advanta Mortgage Corp. USA (DE)
                  Advanta Finance Corp. (NV)
                      Advanta Finance Residential Mortgage Corp. (NV)
                      Advanta Finance Residual Corporation (DE)
                  Advanta Mortgage Corp. Midatlantic (PA)
                  Advanta Mortgage Corp. Midatlantic II (PA)
                  Advanta Mortgage Corp. New Jersey (NJ)
                  Advanta Mortgage Corp. Northeast (NY)
                  Advanta Mortgage Corp. Midwest (PA)
                  Advanta Nominee Services, Inc. (DE)
                  Advanta Mortgage Conduit Services, Inc. (DE)
                      Advanta Conduit Receivables, Inc. (NV)
                      Advanta Mortgage Receivables Inc. (DE)
                      Advanta Mortgage Funding Corp. (DE)


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                      EXHIBIT 23

                   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation of our
report included in this form 10-K, into the Company's previously filed
Registration Statements; File No. 33-12510, No. 33-19290, No. 33-31456, No.
33-32969, No. 33-33350, No. 33-39331, No. 33-47308, No. 33-47305, No. 33-50256,
No. 33-50254, No. 33-50258, No. 33-57516, No. 33-53205, No. 33-53475, No.
33-54991, No. 33-58029, No. 33-59219, No. 33-61555, No. 33-60419, No. 333-01681,
No. 333-01833, No. 333-04471, No. 333-04465, No. 333-04469, No. 333-04471, No.
333-05701, No. 333-18993, No. 333-74575, No. 333-71995, No. 333-89665, and No.
333-92151.

                                            /s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Philadelphia, PA
March 20, 2000
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 9
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1999
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1999
<CASH>                                          29,301
<INT-BEARING-DEPOSITS>                          93,688
<FED-FUNDS-SOLD>                               144,938
<TRADING-ASSETS>                                     0
<INVESTMENTS-HELD-FOR-SALE>                    748,881
<INVESTMENTS-CARRYING>                               0
<INVESTMENTS-MARKET>                                 0
<LOANS>                                      1,449,624
<ALLOWANCE>                                     41,847
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               3,689,662
<DEPOSITS>                                   1,512,359
<SHORT-TERM>                                   763,364
<LIABILITIES-OTHER>                            289,563
<LONG-TERM>                                    434,745
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                      1,010
<COMMON>                                           287
<OTHER-SE>                                     588,334
<TOTAL-LIABILITIES-AND-EQUITY>               3,689,662
<INTEREST-LOAN>                                122,861
<INTEREST-INVEST>                              104,011
<INTEREST-OTHER>                                19,354
<INTEREST-TOTAL>                               246,226
<INTEREST-DEPOSIT>                             101,386
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                             167,676
<INTEREST-INCOME-NET>                           78,550
<LOAN-LOSSES>                                   42,647
<SECURITIES-GAINS>                              30,633
<EXPENSE-OTHER>                                362,654
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  (454)
<INCOME-PRE-EXTRAORDINARY>                      49,818
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                    49,818
<EPS-BASIC>                                       1.99
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     1.96
<YIELD-ACTUAL>                                    2.29
<LOANS-NON>                                     45,620
<LOANS-PAST>                                         0
<LOANS-TROUBLED>                                     0
<LOANS-PROBLEM>                                      0
<ALLOWANCE-OPEN>                                33,437
<CHARGE-OFFS>                                   33,306
<RECOVERIES>                                     5,759
<ALLOWANCE-CLOSE>                               41,847
<ALLOWANCE-DOMESTIC>                            41,847
<ALLOWANCE-FOREIGN>                                  0
<ALLOWANCE-UNALLOCATED>                              0


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
