Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23       Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45       Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46       Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 46       Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 46       Item 9B. Other Information 48       Part III.           Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 48       Item 11. Executive Compensation 49       Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 49       Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 49       Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 49       Part IV.           Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments None . Item 3.        Legal Proceedings   From time to time, we are a party to ordinary, routine litigation incidental to and arising in the normal course of our business, most of which involve claims for personal injury, property damage related to the transportation and handling of freight, or workers’ compensation. We do not believe that any of these pending actions, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Item 4.        Mine Safety Disclosures      Not applicable. Part II items required to be disclosed.  These amendments are effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011.  The adoption of the new amendments are not expected to have a material effect on our financial statement disclosures. In September 2011, the FASB issued amendments to its goodwill and intangible asset guidance to permit an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. Under these new amendments, an entity is not required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines that is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount.  These amendments are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011.  The adoption of these amendments may impact how we assess goodwill impairment but will not have a significant effect on our financial statement results or disclosures. In 2011, the FASB issued amendments to require that all non-owner changes in stockholders' equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In the two-statement approach, the first statement should present total net income and its components followed consecutively by a second statement that should present total other comprehensive income, the components of other comprehensive income, and the total of comprehensive income.  These amendments eliminate the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders' equity. The amendments do not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income.  As we do not currently have any Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   Our exposure to market risk relates principally to changes in interest rates and fuel prices. Our interest rate exposure relates principally to changes in interest rates for borrowings under our senior credit facility. The senior credit facility, for which no balance was outstanding at December 31, 2011, bears interest at variable rates. Based on our average outstanding borrowings in 2011, a hypothetical increase in our senior credit facility borrowing rate of 150 basis points, or an increase in the total effective interest rate from 0.9% to 2.4%, would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $0.8 million and would have decreased our annual cash flow from operations by approximately $0.8 million.     Our only other debt is capital lease obligations totaling $0.9 million.  These lease obligations all bear interest at a fixed rate.  Accordingly, there is no exposure to market risk related to these capital lease obligations.   We are exposed to the effects of changes in the price and availability of diesel fuel, as more fully discussed in Item 8.        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The response to this 