Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  23       Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  56       Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  56       Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  56       Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  56       Item 9B. Other Information  59       Part III.           Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  59       Item 11. Executive Compensation  60       Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters  60       Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  60       Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services  60       Part IV.           items; any statement of plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations; any statements regarding future insurance and claims; any statements concerning proposed or intended new services or developments; any statements regarding intended expansion through acquisition or greenfield startups; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; and any statements of belief and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Some forward-looking statements may be identified by use of such terms as “believes,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “projects” or “expects.” Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The following is a list of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements: economic factors such as recessions, inflation, higher interest rates and downturns in customer business cycles, our inability to maintain our historical growth rate because of a decreased volume of freight or decreased average revenue per pound of freight moving through our network, increasing competition and pricing pressure, surplus inventories, loss of a major customer, the creditworthiness of our customers and their ability to pay for services rendered, our ability to secure terminal facilities in desirable locations at reasonable rates, the inability of our information systems to handle an increased volume of freight moving through our network, changes in fuel prices, claims for property damage, personal injuries or workers’ compensation, employment matters including rising health care costs, enforcement of and changes in governmental regulations, environmental and tax matters, the handling of hazardous materials, the availability and compensation of qualified independent owner-operators and freight handlers as well as contracted, third party carriers needed to serve our customers' transportation needs and our inability to successfully integrate acquisitions. As a result of the foregoing, no assurance can be given as to future financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Part I Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments None . Item 2.        Properties Properties   We believe that we have adequate facilities for conducting our business, including properties owned and leased. Management further believes that in the event replacement property is needed, it will be available on terms and at costs substantially similar to the terms and costs experienced by competitors within the transportation industry.   We own our Columbus, Ohio central sorting facility which is used by our Expedited LTL and TLS segments. The Columbus, Ohio facility is 125,000 square feet with 168 trailer doors. This premier facility can unload, sort and load upwards of 3.7 million pounds in five hours.  We also own facilities near Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas, Chicago, Illinois and Atlanta, Georgia, all of which are used by the Expedited LTL segment.  The Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas facility has over 216,000 square feet with 134 trailer doors and approximately 28,000 square feet of office space.  The Chicago, Illinois facility is over 125,000 square feet with 110 trailer doors and over 10,000 square feet of office space.  The Atlanta, Georgia facility is over 142,000 square feet with 118 trailer doors and approximately 12,000 square feet of office space. We lease our shared services headquarters in Greeneville, Tennessee. During 2016, we renewed the lease through 2023. Our executives are headquartered within our Atlanta, Georgia and Dallas, Texas facilities. We lease and maintain 100 additional terminals, office spaces and other properties located in major cities throughout the United States and Canada. Lease terms for these terminals are typically for three to seven years.  As a result of the Towne acquisition,    we currently have 8 idle facilities that we are still leasing.  Our plan is to buyout or sublease these remaining facilities. In addition, we have operations in 27 cities operated by independent agents who handle freight for us on a commission basis.      Item 3.        Legal Proceedings   From time to time, we are a party to ordinary, routine litigation incidental to and arising in the normal course of our business, most of which involve claims for personal injury, property damage related to the transportation and handling of freight, or workers’ compensation. We do not believe that any of these pending actions, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Item 4.        Mine Safety Disclosures      Not applicable. Part II items and a $17.6 million increase in cash collected from accounts receivable.  The increases in cash used for accounts payable is mainly attributable to cash paid to settle trade payables assumed with the Towne acquisition. Favorable amendments to prior year returns and net operating loss carryforwards acquired with Towne and applied to current year earnings increased the income tax receivable, driving a $22.9 million increase in cash used for income taxes. The increase in net earnings after consideration of non-cash Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   Our exposure to market risk relates principally to changes in interest rates and fuel prices. Our interest rate exposure relates principally to changes in interest rates for borrowings under our senior unsecured credit facility. The revolving credit and term loan facilities had $27.8 million outstanding at December 31, 2016 and bear interest at variable rates. However, a hypothetical increase in our credit facility borrowing rate of 150 basis points, or an increase in the total effective interest rate from 1.8% to 3.3%, would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $0.9 million and would have decreased our annual cash flow from operations by approximately $0.9 million.     Our only other debt is capital lease obligations totaling $1.1 million.  These lease obligations all bear interest at a fixed rate.  Accordingly, there is no exposure to market risk related to these capital lease obligations.   We are exposed to the effects of changes in the price and availability of diesel fuel, as more fully discussed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Our cash and cash equivalents are also subject to market risk, primarily interest-rate and credit risk. Item 8.        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The response to this 