Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  23       Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  55       Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  55       Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  56       Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  56       Item 9B. Other Information  58       Part III.           Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  58       Item 11. Executive Compensation  59       Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters  59       Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  59       Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services  59       Part IV.           items; any statement of plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations; any statements regarding future insurance and claims; any statements concerning proposed or intended new services or developments; any statements regarding intended expansion through acquisition or greenfield startups; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; and any statements of belief and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Some forward-looking statements may be identified by use of such terms as “believes,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “projects” or “expects.” Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The following is a list of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements: economic factors such as recessions, inflation, higher interest rates and downturns in customer business cycles, the creditworthiness of our customers and their ability to pay for services rendered, the availability and compensation of qualified independent owner-operators and freight handlers as well as contracted, third-party carriers needed to serve our customers’ transportation needs, the inability of our information systems to handle an increased volume of freight moving through our network, changes in fuel prices, our inability to maintain our historical growth rate because of a decreased volume of freight or decreased average revenue per pound of freight moving through our network, loss of a major customer, increasing competition and pricing pressure, our ability to secure terminal facilities in desirable locations at reasonable rates, our inability to successfully integrate acquisitions, claims for property damage, personal injuries or workers’ compensation, enforcement of and changes in governmental regulations, environmental and tax matters, and the handling of hazardous materials. As a result of the foregoing, no assurance can be given as to future financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Part I Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments None . Item 3.        Legal Proceedings   From time to time, we are a party to ordinary, routine litigation incidental to and arising in the normal course of our business, most of which involve claims for personal injury, property damage related to the transportation and handling of freight, or workers’ compensation. We do not believe that any of these pending actions, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Item 4.        Mine Safety Disclosures      Not applicable. Part II items and $8.9 million increase in cash used to fund accounts payable and prepaid assets. The increase in accounts receivables was attributable to higher revenue across all segments and revenues associated with the Atlantic acquisition. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $59.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with approximately $52.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2016. Investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2017 consisted primarily of $23.1 million used to acquire Atlantic and a small Intermodal acquisition and net capital expenditures of $35.8 million primarily for new trailers, forklifts and information technology.   Investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2016 consisted primarily of $11.8 million used to acquire Ace and Triumph, which is included in the Intermodal segment, and net capital expenditures of $40.3 million for new trailers, forklifts, computer hardware and internally developed software. The proceeds from disposal of property and equipment during the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were primarily from sales of older trailers and vehicles.    Net cash used in financing activities totaled approximately $48.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2017  compared with net cash used in financing activities of $102.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016.  The $54.0 million change in cash from financing activities was attributable to $55.0 million in borrowings from our revolving credit facility and a $13.0 million decrease in payments on the term loan and revolver. These increases in cash were partly offset by a a $9.0 million increase in share repurchases, a $2.5 million increase in our quarterly cash dividend and a $2.5 million decrease in cash from employee stock transactions. The year ended December 31, 2017 also included $49.0 million used to repurchase shares of our Common Stock, compared to $40.0 million used to repurchase shares of our Common Stock during the year ended December 31, 2016. Dividends increased due to our Board of Directors increasing the quarterly cash dividend from $0.12 per share for the first three quarters of 2016 to $0.15 per share during the fourth quarter of 2016 and all quarters in 2017.    Year Ended December 31, 2016 Cash Flows compared to December 31, 2015 Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities totaled approximately $130.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to approximately $85.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The $44.7 million increase in cash provided by operating activities is mainly attributable to a $7.1 million increase in net earnings after consideration of non-cash Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   Our exposure to market risk relates principally to changes in interest rates and fuel prices. Our interest rate exposure relates principally to changes in interest rates for borrowings under our senior unsecured credit facility. The revolving credit had $40.5 million outstanding at December 31, 2017 and bear interest at variable rates. However, a hypothetical increase in our credit facility borrowing rate of 150 basis points, or an increase in the total effective interest rate from 2.3% to 3.8%, would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $0.4 million and would have decreased our annual cash flow from operations by approximately $0.4 million.   Our only other debt is capital lease obligations totaling $0.7 million.  These lease obligations all bear interest at a fixed rate.  Accordingly, there is no exposure to market risk related to these capital lease obligations.   We are exposed to the effects of changes in the price and availability of diesel fuel, as more fully discussed in Item 8.        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The response to this 