Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  25       Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  56       Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  56       Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  56       Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  56       Item 9B. Other Information  59       Part III.           Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  59       Item 11. Executive Compensation  59       Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters  59       Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  59       Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services  59       Part IV.           items or related accounting treatment, or cost reduction measures; any statement regarding the availability of cash; any statement of plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations; any statements regarding future insurance, claims and litigation; any statements regarding regulation and legislative impacts on our business; any statements concerning proposed or intended, new services, developments or integration measures; any statements regarding our technology and information systems, including the effectiveness of each; any statements regarding competition, including our specific advantages, the capabilities of our segments, including the integration of services and our geographic location; any statement regarding our properties; any statements regarding intended expansion through acquisition or greenfield startups; any statements regarding future business, economic conditions or performance; any statements regarding our environmental initiatives and any statements of belief and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Some forward-looking statements may be identified by use of such terms as “believes,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “projects” or “expects.” Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The following is a list of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements: economic factors such as recessions, inflation, higher interest rates and downturns in customer business cycles, our ability to manage our growth and ability to grow, in part, through acquisitions, while being able to successfully integrate such acquisitions, our inability to maintain our historical growth rate because of a decreased volume of freight or decreased average revenue per pound of freight moving through our network, the availability and compensation of qualified independent owner-operators and freight handlers as well as contracted, third-party carriers needed to serve our customers’ transportation needs, our inability to manage our information systems and inability of our information systems to handle an increased volume of freight moving through our network, the occurrence of cybersecurity risks and events, market acceptance of our service offerings, claims for property damage, personal injuries or workers’ compensation, enforcement of and changes in governmental regulations, environmental, tax, insurance and accounting matters, the handling of hazardous materials, changes in fuel prices, loss of a major customer, increasing competition and pricing pressure, our dependence on our senior management team and the potential effects of changes in employee status, seasonal trends, the occurrence of certain weather events, restrictions in our charter and bylaws. As a result of the foregoing, no assurance can be given as to future financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are important risk factors that could affect our financial performance and could cause actual results for future periods to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC or in oral presentations such as telephone conferences and webcasts open to the public. You should carefully consider the following factors and consider these in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes in Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments None . Item 2.        Properties Properties   We believe that we have adequate facilities for conducting our business, including properties owned and leased. Management further believes that in the event replacement property is needed, it will be available on terms and at costs substantially similar to the terms and costs experienced by competitors within the transportation industry.   We own our Columbus, Ohio central sorting facility which is used by our Expedited Freight segment. The Columbus, Ohio facility is 125,000 square feet with 168 trailer doors.  We also own facilities near Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas, Chicago, Illinois and Atlanta, Georgia, all of which are used by the Expedited Freight segment.  The Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas facility has over 216,000 square feet with 134 trailer doors and approximately 28,000 square feet of office space.  The Chicago, Illinois facility is over 125,000 square feet with 110 trailer doors and over 10,000 square feet of office space.  The Atlanta, Georgia facility is over 142,000 square feet with 118 trailer doors and approximately 12,000 square feet of office space. We lease our shared services headquarters in Greeneville, Tennessee. The lease on this facility expires in 2023. We also lease our executive headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia. We lease and maintain 146 additional terminals, office spaces and other properties located in major cities throughout the United States and Canada. Lease terms for these terminals are typically for three to seven years. In addition, we have operations in 22 cities operated by independent agents who handle freight for us on a commission basis.      Item 3.        Legal Proceedings   From time to time, we are a party to ordinary, routine litigation incidental to and arising in the normal course of our business, most of which involve claims for personal injury, property damage related to the transportation and handling of freight, or workers’ compensation. We do not believe that any of these pending actions, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Item 7.        Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Executive Summary   Effective September 1, 2018, Thomas Schmitt was named the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Schmitt is the Company's Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM") and is primarily responsible for allocating resources to and assessing the performance of the Company's segments. As a result of this change in leadership, the Company revisited its strategy as discussed in items.  Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $63.9 million for the year ended  December 31, 2019  compared with approximately $55.5 million during the year ended  December 31, 2018 . Investing activities during the year ended  December 31, 2019  consisted primarily of FSA for $27.0 million, O.S.T. for $12.0 million and net capital expenditures of $24.9 million primarily for new trailers, information technology and facility equipment. Investing activities during the year ended  December 31, 2018  consisted primarily of net capital expenditures of $35.2 million primarily for new trailers, information technology and sorting equipment and $20.0 million used to acquire Southwest and MMT.  The proceeds from disposal of property and equipment during the year ended  December 31, 2019  and  2018  were primarily from sales of older trailers and tractors.    Net cash used in financing activities totaled approximately $56.0 million for the year ended  December 31, 2019  compared with net cash used in financing activities of $75.3 million for the year ended  December 31, 2018 .  The $19.3 million decrease was attributable to a $13.0 million increase in net borrowings from our revolving credit facility. The year ended  December 31, 2019  also included $56.2 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock, which was a $9.9 million decrease from the $66.1 million used to repurchase shares of common stock for the same period of  2018 . These were partly offset by a $2.0 million increase in payments of cash dividends due to an increase in dividend per share from $0.63 per share in the year ended  December 31, 2018  to $0.72 per share in the year ended  December 31, 2019 , partly offset by a decrease in the outstanding share count during the year ended  December 31, 2019  compared to the same period in  2018 . Additionally, there was a $0.9 million decrease in cash from employee stock transactions and related tax benefits and a $0.7 million increase in payments of debt and finance lease obligations. Year Ended December 31, 2018 Cash Flows compared to December 31, 2017 Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities totaled approximately $152.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to approximately $103.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. The $49.2 million increase in cash provided by operating activities is mainly attributable to a $25.5 million increase in net earnings after consideration of non-cash Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   Our exposure to market risk relates principally to changes in interest rates and fuel prices. Our interest rate exposure relates principally to changes in interest rates for borrowings under our senior unsecured credit facility. The revolving credit had  $67.5 million  outstanding at  December 31, 2019  and bears interest at variable rates. However, a hypothetical increase in our credit facility borrowing rate of 150 basis points, or an increase in the total effective interest rate from 3.7% to 5.2%, would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $0.9 million and would have decreased our annual cash flow from operations by approximately $0.9 million.   Our only other debt are finance lease obligations totaling  $6.3 million .  These lease obligations all bear interest at a fixed rate.  Accordingly, there is no exposure to market risk related to these finance lease obligations.   We are exposed to the effects of changes in the price and availability of fuel, as more fully discussed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” - under the title “ Volatility in fuel prices, shortages of fuel or the ineffectiveness of our fuel surcharge program can have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability .” Item 8.        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The response to this 