Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27       Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43       Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43       Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 43       Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 43       Item 9B. Other Information 46       Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 46 Part III.         Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 46       Item 11. Executive Compensation 46       Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 46       Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 46       Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 46       Part IV.         Item 1A.      Risk Factors The following are important risk factors that could affect our financial performance and could cause actual results for future periods to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC or in oral presentations such as telephone conferences and webcasts open to the public. You should carefully consider the following factors and consider these in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes in Item 1,  Business  and   Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments     None . Item 2.        Properties Properties       We believe that we have adequate facilities for conducting our business, including properties owned and leased. Management further believes that in the event replacement property is needed, it will be available on terms and at costs substantially similar to the terms and costs experienced by competitors within the transportation industry.       We own our Columbus, Ohio central sorting facility which is used by our Expedited Freight segment. The Columbus, Ohio facility is 125,000 square feet with 168 trailer doors.      We also own facilities near Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas, Chicago, Illinois and Atlanta, Georgia, all of which are used by the Expedited Freight segment.  The Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas facility has over 216,000 square feet with 134 trailer doors and approximately 28,000 square feet of office space.  The Chicago, Illinois facility is over 125,000 square feet with 110 trailer doors and over 10,000 square feet of office space.  The Atlanta, Georgia facility is over 142,000 square feet with 118 trailer doors and approximately 12,000 square feet of office space. We lease our shared services headquarters in Greeneville, Tennessee. The lease on this facility expires in 2024. We also lease our executive headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia.     We lease and maintain 168 additional terminals, office spaces and other properties located in major cities throughout the United States and Canada. Lease terms for these terminals are typically for three to seven years. In addition, we have operations in 29 cities operated by independent agents who handle freight for us on a commission basis.      Item 3.        Legal Proceedings       From time to time, we are a party to ordinary, routine litigation incidental to and arising in the normal course of our business, most of which involve claims for personal injury, property damage related to the transportation and handling of freight, or workers’ compensation. For more information about our insurance program and legal proceedings, see Item 1A, Risk Factors - “Claims for property damage, personal injuries or workers’ compensation and related expenses could significantly reduce our earnings.” and “We face risks related to self-insurance and third-party insurance that can be volatile to our earnings.”, and “Our failure to comply with various applicable federal and state employment and labor laws and regulations could have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates, and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Commitments and Contingencies.  Item 7.        Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses our results of operations and financial condition for the year ended December 31, 2021. For a discussion of similar topics for the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, please refer to “Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   Our exposure to market risk relates principally to changes in interest rates and fuel prices. Our interest expense is, in part, sensitive to the general level of interest rates. Borrowings outstanding under our senior unsecured credit facility was approximately $157,500 at December 31, 2021 and bears interest at variable rates. A hypothetical increase in our credit facility borrowing rate of 150 basis points would increase our annual interest expense by approximately  $1,700  and would have decreased our annual cash flow from operations by approximately  $1,700 .   Our only other debt are finance lease obligations totaling $14,159. These lease obligations bear interest at a fixed rate. Accordingly, there is no exposure to market risk related to these finance lease obligations.   We are exposed to the effects of changes in the price and availability of fuel, as more fully discussed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” - under the title “ Volatility in fuel prices, shortages of fuel or the ineffectiveness of our fuel surcharge program can have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability .” Item 8.        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The response to this 