-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 OKV22uzE//UlACvD7tnKMeSYkIErNJdkLMvabSLeNB87gO29v1+E+riQvJUgi09k
 XbmPlGYKUIClsZVqJa8mww==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000912057-01-506544.txt : 20010409
<SEC-HEADER>0000912057-01-506544.hdr.sgml : 20010409
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000912057-01-506544
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20001231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20010402

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GUESS INC ET AL/CA/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000912463
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	WOMEN'S, MISSES', CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' UNDERGARMENTS [2340]
		IRS NUMBER:				953679695
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11893
		FILM NUMBER:		1592118

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1444 SOUTH ALAMEDA ST
		CITY:			LOS ANGELES
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			90021
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2137653100

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1444 SOUTH ALAMEDA STREET
		STREET 2:		1444 SOUTH ALAMEDA STREET
		CITY:			LOS ANGELES
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			90021
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>a2043737z10-k.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2000
                         Commission File Number 1-11893

                                  GUESS?, INC.

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                Delaware                                   95-3679695
      ----------------------------                 ---------------------------
      (State or other jurisdiction               (I.R.S. Employer Identification
    of incorporation or organization)                        Number)

                            1444 South Alameda Street
                          Los Angeles, California 90021
                                 (213) 765-3100
       ------------------------------------------------------------------
    (Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including area code)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                       Name of Each Exchange on
             Title of Each Class                           Which Registered
    -------------------------------------              -------------------------
Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share                 New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes [ X ]  No [   ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

As of the close of business on March 12, 2001, the aggregate market value of the
voting and non-voting common equity stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant was $50,220,989.

As of the close of business on March 12, 2001, the registrant had 43,623,827
shares of Common Stock outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the proxy statement for the registrant's 2001 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part III herein.

<PAGE>

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                     PART I
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Item     Description                                                                        Page
- ----     -----------                                                                        ----
<S>                                                                                         <C>
 1       Business                                                                             1
 2       Properties                                                                          11
 3       Legal Proceedings                                                                   12
 4       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders                                 13

                                     PART II
 5       Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters               13
 6       Selected Financial Data                                                             14
 7       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
             Results of Operations                                                           15
7A       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks                         22
 8       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                                         23
 9       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
            Financial Disclosure                                                             23

                                    PART III
 10      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant                                  23
 11      Executive Compensation                                                              23
 12      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management                      23
 13      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                                      23

                                     PART IV
 14      Exhibits, Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K        23
</TABLE>

<PAGE>

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.       BUSINESS

IMPORTANT FACTORS REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

         Various forward-looking statements have been made in this Form 10-K.
Forward-looking statements may also be in the Company's other reports filed
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in its press releases and in other
documents. In addition, from time to time, the Company, through its management,
may make oral forward-looking statements.

         Forward-looking statements are only expectations, and involve known and
unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results in future
periods and other future events to differ materially from what is currently
anticipated. Certain statements in this Form 10-K, including those relating to
the Company's expected results and operations, the accuracy of data relating to,
and anticipated levels of, its future inventory and gross margins, its
anticipated cash requirements and sources, its cost containment efforts,
estimated charges, its plans regarding store openings and closings, e-commerce
and its business seasonality, are forward-looking statements. Such statements
involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ
materially from those set forth in these statements. Factors which may cause
actual results in future periods to differ from its current expectations
include, among other things, the continued availability of sufficient working
capital, the successful integration of new stores into existing operations, the
continued desirability and customer acceptance of existing and future product
lines, possible cancellations of wholesale orders, the success of competitive
products, the success of the Company's programs to strengthen its inventory cost
accounting controls and procedures and the availability of adequate sources of
capital. In addition to these factors, the economic and other factors identified
in this Form 10-K, including but not limited to the risk factors discussed
herein and in the Company's previously filed public documents, could affect the
forward-looking statements contained in herein and therein.

         Forward-looking statements generally refer to future plans and
performance, and are identified by the words "believe," "expect," "anticipate,"
"optimistic," "intend," "aim," "will" or the negative thereof and similar
expressions. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of which they are
made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any
forward-looking statements.

         For additional information regarding forward-looking statements, refer
to "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" contained herein.

GENERAL

         Unless the context indicates otherwise, when we refer to "we," "us" or
the "Company" in this Form 10-K, we are referring to Guess?, Inc. ("Guess?") and
its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

         We design, market, distribute and license one of the world's leading
lifestyle collections of casual apparel and accessories for men, women and
children that reflect the American lifestyle and European fashion sensibilities.
Our apparel is marketed under numerous trademarks including GUESS, GUESS?, GUESS
U.S.A., GUESS Jeans, GUESS? and Triangle Design, Question Mark and Triangle
Design, GUESS Kids, and GUESS Collection. The lines include full collections of
denim and cotton clothing, including jeans, pants, overalls, skirts, dresses,
shorts, blouses, shirts, jackets and knitwear. We also selectively grant
licenses to manufacture and distribute a broad range of products that complement
our apparel lines, including eyewear, watches, footwear, infant apparel and
other fashion accessories.


                                       1
<PAGE>

         Our products are sold through three primary distribution channels: in
our own stores, to a network of wholesale accounts and through the internet.
GUESS? branded products, some of which are produced under license, are also sold
internationally through a series of licensees and distributors. Our core
customer is a style-conscious consumer between the ages of 15 and 25. These
consumers are part of a highly desirable demographic group that we believe is
growing rapidly and has significant disposable income. We also appeal to
customers outside this group through specialty product lines that include GUESS
Collection, a more sophisticated fashion line targeted to women, and GUESS Kids,
targeted to boys and girls ages 6 to 12.

         We were founded in 1981 and currently operate as a Delaware
corporation.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

         Our business consists of three reportable business segments: retail
operations, wholesale operations and licensing operations. Financial information
about each segment for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
are included under Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained
herein.

         In 2000, 50.4% of our net revenue was generated from retail
operations, 44.8% from wholesale operations and 4.8% from licensing
operations. Our total net revenue in 2000 was $779.2 million and net earnings
were $16.5 million.

BUSINESS STRENGTHS

         We believe we have several business strengths which are necessary for
the execution of our strategies. These business strengths include:

         BRAND EQUITY. We believe that our name has become one of the most
familiar in fashion and is one of our most valuable assets. We believe the
enduring strength of the GUESS? brand name and image is due mainly to our
consistent emphasis on innovative and distinctive product designs that stand for
exceptional styling and quality. Our industry is highly competitive and subject
to rapidly changing consumer preferences and tastes. The success of our brand
depends on our ability to anticipate the fashion preferences of our customers.
We have a team of designers who, under the direction of Maurice Marciano, seek
to identify global fashion trends and interpret them for the style-conscious
consumer while retaining the distinctive GUESS? image. Through our award-winning
advertising, under the creative leadership and vision of Paul Marciano, we have
achieved worldwide recognition of the GUESS? brand name. By retaining control
over advertising and marketing activities from our headquarters in Los Angeles,
we maintain the integrity, consistency and direction of the GUESS? brand image
worldwide, while realizing substantial cost savings when compared to the use of
outside advertising agencies.

         We have developed the "GUESS? signature image" and "GUESS? lifestyle
concept," through the use of our strong and distinctive images, merchandising
display themes, logos, and trademarks which are registered in over 171
countries.

         ADVERTISING AND MARKETING. All worldwide advertising, marketing
activities and promotional materials are controlled from our headquarters in Los
Angeles. GUESS Jeans, GUESS U.S.A. and Guess?, Inc. images have been showcased
in dozens of major publications, and outdoor and broadcast media throughout the
United States and worldwide. Our advertising campaigns promote the GUESS? image
with our award winning advertising and a consistent emphasis on innovative and
distinctive designs.


                                       2
<PAGE>

         We communicate this message through the use of our signature black and
white print advertisements, as well as color print advertisements, designed by
our in-house Advertising Department. Led by Paul Marciano, this team has won
numerous awards and contributed to making the GUESS? brand one of the most
recognizable fashion brands. We have maintained a high degree of consistency in
our advertisements, by using similar themes and images. We require our licensees
and distributors to invest a percentage of their net sales of licensed products
and net purchases of GUESS? products, respectively, in Company-approved
advertising, promotion and marketing.

         RETAIL DISTRIBUTION. At December 31, 2000, we operated 108 full-price
retail stores, 11 kids stores and 60 factory outlet stores in the United
States and a retail store in Florence, Italy that is an integral part of our
European design activities. At December 31, 2000, our 60% owned subsidiary,
GUESS Canada, operated 26 full-price retail stores and seven factory outlet
stores in Canada. Our retail network creates an upscale and inviting shopping
environment and enhances our image. Distribution through our retail stores
allows us to influence the merchandising and presentation of our products,
build brand equity and test market new product design concepts. Our retail
stores carry a full assortment of men's and women's merchandise, including
most of the GUESS? licensed products. Our kids stores offer product for boys
and girls and infants ages 3 months to 12 years. These stores are smaller
than the adult stores and are child friendly including special visual
presentation and fixtures. Our factory outlet stores are primarily located in
outlet malls, generally operating outside the shopping radius of our
wholesale customers and our own retail stores. They appeal to value-conscious
customers with a product line that is approximately 70% unique to that venue.

         LICENSEE STORES. Our licensees and distributors also operate 248
international GUESS? stores. These stores carry apparel and accessories that are
similar to those sold in the United States, including some that are tailored for
local fashion sensibilities. We work closely with international licensees and
distributors to ensure that their store designs and merchandise programs protect
the reputation of the GUESS? trademarks. Our international licenses and
distribution agreements also allow for the sale of GUESS? brand products in
better department stores and upscale specialty retail stores.

         WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTION. We have both domestic and international
wholesale distribution channels. Domestic wholesale customers consist primarily
of better department stores and select specialty retailers and upscale
boutiques, which have the image and merchandising expertise that we require for
the effective presentation of our products. Leading domestic wholesale customers
include Federated Department Stores, Inc., The May Department Stores Company,
Dillard's, Inc. and Dayton Hudson Corporation. During 2000, our products were
sold directly to consumers from approximately 2,800 retail store locations in
the United States. These locations include approximately 1,470 shop-in-shops, an
exclusive selling area within a department store that offers a wide array of our
products and incorporates GUESS? signage and fixture designs. These
shop-in-shops allow us to reinforce our GUESS? brand image with our customers.
Many department stores have more than one shop-in-shop, with each one featuring
women's, men's, boys' or girls' apparel. Through our foreign subsidiaries and
our network of international distributors, our products are also found in major
cities throughout Asia, Europe, South America and the Middle East.

         LICENSING OPERATIONS. The desirability of the GUESS? brand name among
consumers has allowed us to selectively expand our product offerings and global
markets through trademark licensing arrangements, with minimal capital
investment or on-going operating expenses. We carefully select our trademark
licensees and approve in advance all product design, advertising and packaging
materials of all licensed products in order to maintain a consistent GUESS?
image. We currently have 25 domestic and international licenses that include
watches, eyewear, shoes, handbags, leather apparel, jewelry and related
accessories. We have granted licenses for the manufacture and sale of GUESS?
branded products in markets which include Europe, Asia, South America, Australia
and Africa.

BUSINESS GROWTH STRATEGIES

         We regularly evaluate and implement initiatives that we believe will
build brand equity, grow our business and enhance profitability. Our key growth
strategies are as follows:

         LEVERAGING THE GUESS? BRAND. We believe the GUESS? brand is an integral
part of our business, a significant strategic asset and a primary source of
sustainable competitive advantage. It communicates a distinctive image that is
fun, fashionable and sexy. Brand loyalty, name awareness, perceived quality,
strong


                                       3
<PAGE>

brand images, public relations, publicity, promotional events and trademarks all
contribute to brand integrity. Our design teams visit the world's premier
fashion locations in order to identify important style trends and to discover
new fabrics. We will continue this practice while promoting our innovative
designs through stylish advertising campaigns that advance the GUESS? image. Our
marketing programs are designed to convey a uniform style image for the brand
and are aimed at increasing the desire of the target group to join our GUESS?
customer group.

         RETAIL STORE STRATEGY AND EXPANSION PLANS. Our retail growth strategy
is to increase retail sales and profitability by expanding our network of retail
stores and improving the performance of existing stores. During 2000, we opened
16 new full-price retail stores, 11 kids stores, nine factory outlet stores and
closed 3 factory outlet under-performing stores in the United States. In 2000,
our Canadian licensee, Guess Canada, opened 14 new full-price retail stores and
6 factory outlet stores in Canada. We currently own 60% of Guess? Canada and
have an option to acquire the remaining 40% of our Canadian subsidiary
commencing December 31, 2001.

         Our retail locations build brand awareness and contribute to the growth
of our wholesale operations. Accordingly, we have expanded our retail square
footage in the United States and Canada. We increased square footage in 2000 by
29% in the United States and Canada, including Guess? Kids stores. For 2001,
while we plan to increase our square footage, and remodel a few existing
locations, the growth rate will be significantly lower than in 2000. We plan to
be very selective with new store locations and expect to open up to 25 new
stores, including stores in Canada and Guess? Kids stores.

         In 2000, our retail stores open for at least one year realized
comparable sales gains averaging 5.8% over 1999 and includes our factory
outlet stores which realized net gains averaging 4% over 1999. We believe this
growth reflects the effect of several ongoing initiatives, including:

         -        leadership in new product development,

         -        a more fashion-focused product mix,

         -        improvements in merchandising and visual presentation,

         -        the remodeling of select stores to promote a consistent brand
                  message, and

         -        the development of a motivated team of sales professionals to
                  service our customers and provide a favorable shopping
                  experience.

         The look and feel of GUESS? retail and factory outlet stores play an
important role in building our brand equity. To enhance the quality of our
presentation, we remodeled 19 stores during 2000 and plan to remodel an
additional six stores during 2001.

         EXPAND SHOP-IN-SHOP PROGRAMS. We continue to selectively expand our use
of "shop-in-shops," which are exclusive selling areas within wholesale
customers' department stores that use GUESS? signage and fixture designs. The
GUESS? "shop-in-shop" concept is designed to enhance the presence and brand
awareness of GUESS? products in department stores. The strategic product
presentation, theme-based fixtures, displays, strong and distinctive images and
point-of-sale materials in these premium department store locations are designed
to reinforce and capitalize on the "GUESS? lifestyle" concept. These shops also
facilitate consumer shopping by featuring a comprehensive presentation of our
merchandise. During the last three years, we focused on the department stores
with the greatest sales potential and increased our shop-in-shop presence in
those stores. In 2000 we increased the number of shop-in shops by 270, adding
122,000 square feet in department stores. At the end of 2000, we had
approximately 1,470 GUESS? shop-in-shops in the United States.

         REPOSITION LICENSEE PORTFOLIO. A primary objective of our company is to
maintain the quality and reputation of the GUESS? brand. In order to accomplish
this goal, we will continue to strategically reposition our licensing portfolio
by constantly monitoring and evaluating the performance of our licensees
worldwide and their strength and capabilities to represent our brand
appropriately. As part of this process, we will consider bringing in-house
apparel licenses, where appropriate. If we determine that licensees are
performing inadequately, we sometimes discontinue the existing relationship and
seek out a stronger replacement licensee. Over the past few years, we have
converted our Women's Knits, Girls' and Boys' product lines from licensees to
our own products.


                                       4
<PAGE>

Our girls' and boys' apparel lines are prominently featured in our new GUESS
Kids stores and in girls' and boys' shop-in-shops. We have a new licensee
producing the Baby GUESS line.

         IMPROVED PRODUCT SOURCING. Over the past several years, we have
refocused our product sourcing strategies to increase efficiencies, reduce
costs and improve quality. We currently purchase approximately 79% of our
finished products from international vendors. This is a significant change
from years ago when we purchased the majority of our goods from domestic
sources. We have increased our utilization of lower-cost, offshore "packaged
purchases" in which we supply the product design and fabric selection, and
the vendor manufactures and delivers the finished product. We have
strategically aligned ourselves with sourcing vendors worldwide, who will
take full responsibility for delivering quality, finished products in a
timely manner. We have substantially reduced our average cost per unit and we
have lowered the price to the consumer of many of our items. By continuing to
use packaged programs, we believe we can improve product gross margins,
reduce carrying costs of raw materials and improve the timing of our
deliveries and product quality. We also retain a close relationship with a
number of domestic vendors located primarily in Los Angeles as it is
important to react to last minute trends, as well as to respond to rush
reorders.

         RELOCATION OF THE DISTRIBUTION CENTER. We have opened a new,
automated distribution center in Louisville, Kentucky, to replace our
distribution center in Los Angeles. Our new, 500,000 square-foot facility is
near United Parcel Service's national transit hub and has contributed to the
reduction of our shipping time to our stores and wholesale accounts that are
east of the Mississippi River. Operating expenses in the new distribution
facility were higher than normal in 2000 due primarily to start-up costs.
Depending on processing volumes and productivity improvements, we expect that
the new facility will reduce operating cost per unit by reducing shipping
costs and will provide better service to our customers by faster shipping and
response times.

         E-COMMERCE. We are pursuing both business-to-consumer and
business-to-business initiatives. Our web site, www.guess.com, a virtual
storefront that promotes the GUESS? brand, became fully operational in April
1999. Designed as a customer center, the site showcases GUESS? products in an
easy-to-navigate format, allowing customers to see and purchase our collections
of casual apparel and accessories. This virtual store has become a successful
additional retail distribution channel, has improved customer service and is a
fun and entertaining alternative-shopping environment. The site also provides
fashion information, provides a mechanism for customer feedback, promotes
customer loyalty and enhances our brand identity through interactive content. In
2000 the site generated net sales consistent with the top retail GUESS? stores
in the chain. In addition, the Company added a Guess Kids and Baby Guess site in
2000 to create a complete product offering for our customers.

         During 2000, we introduced a business-to-business concept that
facilitates our interaction with wholesale customers, licensees and
suppliers. The site, which utilizes Commerce One's MarketSite with
PeopleSoft's eProcurement software, is designed to permit the purchase of
both direct items such as trim, fabric, and finished goods and indirect items
such as office and maintenance supplies. In addition, the site was created as
a vehicle for our specialty customers to purchase Guess? and licensee
products. Our site has the potential to become an electronic marketplace that
facilitates various levels of interaction between buyers and sellers in the
textile and apparel industries, and reduce our operating costs, increase our
sourcing efficiencies and improve customer service.

GUESS? PRODUCTS

         We derive net revenue from four primary sources:

         -        the sale of GUESS? men's, women's, girls' and boys' apparel,
         -        the sale of our licensees' products through our network of
                    retail and factory outlet stores primarily in the United
                    States,
         -        the sale of GUESS? men's, women's, girls' and boys' apparel
                    worldwide to wholesale customers and distributors, and
         -        net royalties from worldwide licensing activities.


         The following table sets forth our net revenue from our channels of
distribution:


                                       5
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Year Ended December 31,
                                       ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             2000                      1999                      1998
                                       -----------------         -----------------         -----------------
                                                             (dollars in thousands)
<S>                                    <C>         <C>           <C>        <C>            <C>         <C>
Net Revenue:
Retail operations                      $392,539    50.4%         $299,384    50.0%         $222,624    47.2%
Wholesale operations                    348,873    44.8           260,628    43.4           212,504    45.0
                                       --------    ----          --------   -----          --------    ----
    Net revenue from product sales      741,412    95.2           560,012    93.4           435,128    92.2
Net royalties                            37,805     4.8            39,638     6.6            36,803     7.8
                                       --------    ----          --------   -----          --------    ----
     Total net revenue                 $779,217   100.0%         $599,650   100.0%         $471,931   100.0%
                                       ========   =====          ========   =====          ========   =====
</TABLE>

PRODUCTS. Our product line is organized into four primary categories: men's,
women's, girls' and boys' apparel. Since 1998, we reacquired our boys' and
girls' apparel line from former licensees and now produce the line in-house.
The product assortment was refocused with a more narrow and deep buying
strategy using fewer stock keeping units ("SKUs") to be able to give our
customers more depth of the styles they want. To take advantage of the
contemporary trends, we complement our core basic styles with more
fashion-oriented items. Within our basic denim assortment, we have added new
denim fabrics and washes. In addition, we have also added "immediates" to our
merchandise assortment; these are fashion forward styles that complement our
current product line.

Our line of women's apparel also includes the GUESS Collection product line, a
better collection of women's skirts, dresses, tops, jackets, blazers and blouses
incorporating a sophisticated, high fashion combination of colors and styles.
These products are currently sold exclusively through our retail stores and the
Internet. This line is primarily designed to appeal to the contemporary segment
of the apparel market.

LICENSED PRODUCTS. The high level of desirability of the GUESS? brand among
consumers has allowed us to selectively expand our product offerings and
distribution channels worldwide through trademark licensing arrangements. We
currently have 25 trademark licenses. Worldwide sales of licensed products (as
reported to us by our licensees) were approximately $550.0 million in 2000. Our
net royalties from these sales, including fees from new licensees, were $37.8
million in 2000. Approximately 62.3% of our net royalties were derived from our
top 7 licensed product lines in 2000.

DESIGN

         Under the direction of Maurice Marciano, GUESS? apparel is designed by
an in-house staff of five design teams (men's, women's, girls', boys' and GUESS
Collection) located in Los Angeles, California. GUESS? design teams travel
throughout the world in order to monitor fashion trends and discover new
fabrics. Fabric shows in Europe, Asia and the United States provide additional
opportunities to discover and sample new fabrics. These fabrics, together with
the trends observed by our designers, serve as the primary source of inspiration
for our lines and collections. We also maintain a fashion library consisting of
antique and contemporary garments as another source of creative concepts. In
addition, our design teams regularly meet with members of the sales,
merchandising and retail operations to further refine our products to meet the
particular needs of our markets.

DOMESTIC RETAIL OPERATIONS

         At December 31, 2000, our domestic retail operations consisted of 108
full-price retail stores, 11 kids and 60 factory outlet stores in the United
States that we owned and operated directly which sell GUESS?-label products.
Since the beginning of 1998 through December 31, 2000, we have opened a total
of 26 retail stores, 11 kids stores and 21 factory outlet stores and have
closed or consolidated five retail stores and 10 factory outlet stores in the
United States.


                                       6
<PAGE>

         RETAIL STORES. Our 108 domestic retail stores occupy 597,000 square
feet and range in size from approximately 3,000 to 12,500 square feet. Our
retail stores carry a full assortment of men's and women's GUESS?
merchandise, including most of our licensed products. During 2000, we opened
16 new full-price retail stores and remodeled 8 retail stores. During 2000 we
also launched our Guess Kids' store strategy, and opened in the United States
11 kids stores, which sell our girls' and boys' lines, as well as infant's
clothing, which is supplied by one of our licensees.

         In 2000, our domestic full-price retail stores achieved a 6.7%
comparable store increase in net revenue. Our domestic retail stores which
were open at the beginning of 1999 increased sales per square foot from $431
in 1999 to $452 in 2000.

         FACTORY OUTLET STORES. Our 60 domestic factory outlet stores occupy
approximately 328,000 square feet and range in size from approximately 3,500 to
8,900 square feet. They are primarily located in outlet malls generally
operating outside the shopping radius of our wholesale customers and our retail
stores. These stores sell selected styles of GUESS? apparel and licensed
products at a discount to value-conscious customers. We also use the factory
outlet stores to assist us to distribute excess inventory effectively, thereby
protecting the GUESS? image. Approximately 70% of the products sold in our
factory outlet stores are unique to those stores. During 2000, we opened 9 new
factory stores and closed 3 under-performing stores. In 2000, our domestic
factory outlet stores achieved a 4.0% comparable store sales increase in net
revenue over 1999. Our domestic factory outlet stores which were open at the
beginning of 1999 increased sales per square foot from $352 in 1999 to $368 in
2000.

DOMESTIC WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS

         Our domestic wholesale customers consist primarily of better department
stores and select upscale specialty stores, which have the image and
merchandising expertise that we require for the effective presentation of our
products. Leading wholesale customers include Federated Department Stores, Inc.,
The May Department Stores Company and Dillard's, Inc., among others. During
2000, we sold our products directly to approximately 2,800 retail doors in the
United States.

         A key element of our merchandising strategy is the shop-in-shop
merchandising format, an exclusive selling area within a department store that
presents a full array of GUESS? products using GUESS? signage and fixture
designs. At December 31, 2000, there were approximately 1,470 shop-in-shops
(excluding shop-in-shops installed by licensees and distributors) that feature
GUESS? products (other than the GUESS Collection). We added or remodeled
approximately 270 shop-in-shops in 2000.

         We have sales representatives in our showrooms in New York, Los
Angeles, Dallas, Chicago and Atlanta. They coordinate with customers to
determine the inventory level and product mix that should be carried in each
store to maximize retail sell-throughs and enhance the customers' profit
margins. The inventory level and product mix are then used as the basis for
developing sales projections and product needs for each wholesale customer
and for scheduling production. Additionally, we use merchandise coordinators,
who work with the store to ensure that our products are appropriately
displayed.

         A few of our domestic wholesale customers, including some under common
ownership, have accounted for significant portions of our net revenue. During
2000, Bloomingdale's, Macy's and other affiliated stores owned by Federated
Department Stores, Inc. together accounted for approximately 11.8% of our net
revenue.

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS

         We derive net revenue and earnings outside the United States from two
principal sources:

         -        sales of GUESS? brand apparel directly to 6 foreign
                  distributors who distribute it to better department stores,
                  upscale specialty retail stores and GUESS?-licensed retail
                  stores operated by our international distributors, and

         -        royalties from licensees who manufacture and distribute GUESS?
                  brand products outside the United States. We sell products
                  through distributors and licensees throughout Asia, South
                  America, Europe, South Africa, Australia and the Middle East.


                                       7
<PAGE>

         At December 31, 2000, 248 GUESS? retail and outlet stores were owned
and operated internationally by licensees and distributors, including 26
retail and seven factory outlet stores located in Canada which are operated
by our 60% owned subsidiary. We have an option to acquire the remaining 40%
of our Canadian subsidiary commencing December 31, 2001. Our retail store
license agreements generally provide detailed guidelines for store fixtures
and merchandising programs. The appearance, merchandising and service
standards of these stores are closely monitored to ensure that our image and
brand integrity are maintained. We have been advised by our distributors and
licensees that in 2001 they plan to open 17 new retail stores and to remodel
19 existing locations. We also own and operate a flagship GUESS retail store
in Florence, Italy.

LICENSE AGREEMENTS AND TERMS

         Our trademark license agreements customarily provide for a three- to
five-year initial term with a possible option to renew prior to expiration
for an additional multi-year period. In addition to licensing trademarks for
products which complement our apparel products, we have granted trademark
licenses for the manufacture and sale of GUESS? branded products similar to
ours, including men's and women's denim and knitwear, in markets such as the
Philippines, Canada, Mexico, Chile, South Africa, South Korea, Europe and
Japan. Licenses granted to certain licensees that have produced high-quality
products and have demonstrated solid operating performance, such as GUESS?
Watches and GUESS? Eyewear, have been renewed and in some cases expanded to
include new products or markets. In other cases, products that were formerly
licensed, such as our women's knits, girls' and boys' lines, are now being
produced in-house. The typical license agreement requires that the licensee
pay us the greater of a royalty based on a percentage of the licensee's net
sales of licensed products or a guaranteed annual minimum royalty that
typically increases over the term of the license agreement. Generally,
licensees are required to spend a percentage of the net sales of licensed
products for advertising and promotion of the licensed products. In addition,
certain licensees are required to contribute toward the protection of our
trademarks within the territories granted to such licensees, thereby
assisting us in our efforts to prevent counterfeiting and other trademark
infringement in those territories.

         To protect the GUESS? trademark and brand, our Licensing Department
meets regularly with licensees to ensure consistency with our overall
merchandising and design strategies and to ensure uniformity and quality
control. The Licensing Department approves in advance all GUESS? licensed
products, advertising, promotional and packaging materials.

ADVERTISING AND MARKETING

         Our advertising, public relations and marketing strategy is designed to
promote a consistent high impact image which endures regardless of changing
consumer trends. Since our inception, Paul Marciano has had principal
responsibility for the GUESS? brand image and creative vision. All worldwide
advertising and promotional material is controlled through our Advertising
Department based in Los Angeles. GUESS Jeans, GUESS U.S.A. and Guess?, Inc.
images have been showcased in dozens of major publications and outdoor and
broadcast media throughout the United States and the world.

         Our advertising strategy promotes the GUESS? image and products, with
an emphasis on brand image. Our signature black and white print advertisements,
as well as color print advertisements, have garnered prestigious awards,
including Clio, Belding and Mobius awards for creativity and excellence. These
awards, which we have received on numerous occasions, are generally given based
on the judgment of prominent members of the advertising industry. We have
maintained a high degree of consistency in our advertisements, using similar
themes and images. We require our licensees and distributors to invest a
percentage of their net sales of licensed products and net purchases of GUESS?
products in approved advertising, promotion and marketing.

         Our Advertising Department is responsible for media placement of all
advertising worldwide, which includes approval of all advertising campaigns from
our licensees and distributors. We use a variety of media which emphasizes print
and outdoor advertising. We have focused advertisement placement in national and
international contemporary fashion/beauty and lifestyle magazines including
Vanity Fair, Harpers Bazaar, Elle, W and Details. By retaining control over our
advertising programs, we are able to maintain the integrity of the GUESS? brand
image while realizing substantial cost savings when compared to the use of
outside agencies.


                                       8
<PAGE>

         We further strengthen communications with customers through our Web
site (www.guess.com). This global medium enables us to provide timely
information in an entertaining fashion to consumers about our history, GUESS?
products and store locations and allows us to receive and respond directly to
customer feedback.

SOURCING AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

         We source products through numerous suppliers, many of whom have
established long-term relationships with us. We seek to achieve the most
efficient means for timely delivery of our high quality products. Our fabric
specialists work with fabric mills in the United States, Mexico, Europe and Asia
to develop woven and knitted fabrics that enhance the products' comfort, design
and appearance. For a substantial portion of our apparel products, production
planning takes place generally four to five months prior to the corresponding
selling season. Delivery of certain basic products is accomplished through our
Quick Response EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) replenishment system which
ensures shipment of such products generally within 48 hours of receipt of
customer orders.

         We do not own any production equipment other than cutting machinery. To
remain competitive, in recent years we have increasingly been sourcing our
finished products globally. During 2000, we sourced approximately 79% of our
finished products from third-party suppliers located outside the United States.
Most of these finished products are acquired as package purchases where we
supply the design and fabric selection and the vendor supplies the finished
product. Although we have long-term relationships with many of our vendors, we
do not have long-term written agreements with them. Our production and sourcing
staff in Los Angeles oversees aspects of apparel manufacturing, quality control
and production, and researches and develops new sources of supply.

SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS

         Our products use a variety of raw materials, principally consisting of
woven denim, woven cotton and knitted fabrics and yarns. Historically, we have
had to make commitments for a significant portion of our fabric well in advance
of sales. During the last few years we have been able to reduce our raw
materials inventory by increasing the use of packaged purchases.

QUALITY CONTROL

         Our quality control program is designed to ensure that products meet
our high quality standards. We monitor the quality of our fabrics prior to the
production of garments and inspect prototypes of each product before production
runs commence. We also perform random in-line quality control checks during and
after production before the garments leave the contractor. Final random
inspections occur when the garments are received in our distribution centers. We
believe that our policy of inspecting our products at our distribution centers
and at the vendors' facilities is important to maintain the quality, consistency
and reputation of our products.

DISTRIBUTION CENTER

         We utilize distribution centers at strategically located sites. Until
1999, distribution of our products in the United States was centralized in our
facility in Los Angeles, California, which we operate and lease from a related
party. In January 2000, we opened a new, automated distribution center in
Louisville, Kentucky, to replace the distribution center in Los Angeles. This
facility was fully operational in the second quarter of fiscal year 2000. We
also own ten percent of a licensee which operates a distribution center in
Florence, Italy and services Europe. Additionally, we utilize a contract
warehouse in Hong Kong which services the Pacific Rim.

         At our distribution center in Kentucky, we use fully integrated and
automated distribution systems. The bar code scanning of merchandise, picking
tickets and distribution cartons, together with radio frequency communications,
provide timely, controlled, accurate and instantaneous updates to the
distribution information systems. We continue to monitor our distribution
center integration as our business grows and the center matures.


                                       9
<PAGE>

COMPETITION

         The apparel industry is highly competitive and fragmented, and is
subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and preferences. We believe that
our success depends in large part upon our ability to anticipate, gauge and
respond to changing consumer demands and fashion trends in a timely manner and
upon the continued appeal to consumers of the GUESS? brand image. We compete
with numerous apparel manufacturers and distributors and several well-known
designers which have recently entered or re-entered the designer denim market.
Our retail and factory outlet stores face competition from other retailers,
including some of our major wholesale customers. Our licensed apparel and
accessories also compete with a substantial number of designer and non-designer
lines and various other well-known brands. Many of our competitors have greater
financial resources than we do. Although the level and nature of competition
differ among our product categories, we believe that we compete on the basis of
our brand image, quality of design, workmanship and product assortment.

TRADEMARKS

         We own numerous trademarks, including GUESS?, GUESS, GUESS? and
Triangle Design, Question Mark and Triangle Design, Baby GUESS, GUESS Kids,
GUESS U.S.A. and GUESS Collection. At December 31, 2000, we had more than
2,200 U.S. and international registered trademarks or trademark applications
pending with the trademark offices of the United States and in over 171
countries around the world. From time to time, we adopt new trademarks in
connection with the marketing of new product lines. We consider our
trademarks to have significant value in the marketing of our products and act
aggressively to register and protect our trademarks worldwide.

         Like many well-known brands, our trademarks are subject to
infringement. We have staff devoted to the monitoring and aggressive protection
of our trademarks worldwide.

WHOLESALE BACKLOG

         We maintain a model stock program in our basic denim products which
allows us generally to replenish a customer's inventory within 48 hours. We
typically receive orders for our fashion apparel 90 to 120 days prior to the
time the products are delivered to stores. At February 28, 2001, we had unfilled
wholesale orders, consisting primarily of orders for fashion apparel, of
approximately $131.2 million, compared to $167.7 million for such orders at
February 29, 2000. We expect to fill substantially all of these orders in 2001.
The backlog of wholesale orders at any given time is affected by various
factors, including seasonality and the scheduling of manufacturing and shipment
of products. Accordingly, a comparison of backlogs of wholesale orders from
period to period is not necessarily meaningful and may not be indicative of
eventual actual shipments.

EMPLOYEES

         We strongly believe that our employees ("associates") are one of our
most valuable resources. At December 31, 2000, there were approximately 4,100
associates, including corporate personnel. Associates include approximately
1,000 in our wholesale operations and 3,100 in our retail operations.

         We are not a party to any labor agreements and none of our associates
is represented by a labor union. We consider our relationship with our
associates to be good. In addition, we were among the first in the apparel
industry to implement a program to monitor the compliance of subcontractors with
Federal minimum wage and overtime pay requirements.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

         We are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and
ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse
environmental effects (such as emissions to air, discharges to water, and the
generation, handling, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes). We
are also subject to laws, regulations and ordinances that impose liability for
the costs of clean up or other remediation of contaminated property, including
damages from spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances or
wastes, in certain circumstances without regard to fault. Certain of our
operations routinely involve the handling of chemicals and wastes, some of which
are or may become regulated as hazardous substances. We have not incurred, and
do not expect to incur, any significant expenditures or liabilities for
environmental matters. As a result, we believe that


                                       10
<PAGE>

our environmental obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition or results of operations.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

         See Note 13 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a
discussion regarding our domestic and foreign operations.

ITEM 2.       PROPERTIES

Certain information concerning our principal facilities, all of which are leased
at December 31, 2000, is set forth below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                        APPROXIMATE
                                                                                                          AREA IN
      LOCATION                                        USE                                                SQUARE FEET
- ------------------------           -----------------------------------------------------------------     -----------
<S>                                <C>                                                                   <C>
1444 South Alameda Street          Principal executive and administrative offices, design                    492,000
Los Angeles, California            facilities, sales offices, distribution and warehouse facilities,
                                   production control, and sourcing

1610 Freeport Drive                Distribution and warehousing facility                                     500,000
Louisville, Kentucky

1385 Broadway                      Administrative offices, public relations, and showrooms                    36,000
New York, New York

Montreal, Canada                   Administrative offices, and retail store                                   97,000

Kowloon, Hong Kong                 Distribution and licensing coordination control                             5,200

Florence, Italy                    Administrative office and retail store                                      4,100
</TABLE>

         Our corporate, wholesale and retail headquarters and certain
production and warehousing facilities are located in Los Angeles, California
and consist of six adjacent buildings totaling approximately 492,000 square
feet. All of these properties are leased by us, and certain of these facilities
are leased from limited partnerships in which the sole partners are trusts
controlled by and for the benefit of Maurice Marciano, Paul Marciano and Armand
Marciano and their families (the "Principal Stockholders") pursuant to leases
that expire in July 2008. The total lease payments to these limited partnerships
are $237,000 per month with aggregate minimum lease commitments to these
partnerships at December 31, 2000 totaling approximately $21.5 million. See
"Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions."

         During 1999, distribution of our products in the United States was
centralized in our Los Angeles, California facility. In 2000, we leased a new,
automated distribution center in Louisville, Kentucky, to replace the
distribution center in Los Angeles. We also own ten-percent of a licensee, which
leases and operates a distribution center in Florence, Italy and services
Europe. Additionally, we lease a contract warehouse in Hong Kong, China which
services the Pacific Rim.

         We lease our showrooms, advertising, licensing, sales and merchandising
offices, remote distribution and warehousing facility and retail and factory
outlet store locations under non-cancelable operating lease agreements expiring
on various dates through March 2016. These facilities are located principally
in the United States, with aggregate minimum lease commitments, at December
31, 2000, totaling approximately $340.4 million.


                                       11
<PAGE>

         The current terms of our store leases, excluding renewal options,
expire as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
YEARS LEASE TERMS EXPIRE                                   NUMBER OF STORES
- ------------------------                                  -----------------
<S>                                                       <C>
      2001-2003                                                  35
      2004-2006                                                  89
      2007-2009                                                  45
      2010-2012                                                  42
      Thereafter                                                  1
</TABLE>

         We believe our existing facilities are well maintained, in good
operating condition and are adequate to support our present level of operations.
See Notes 9 and 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information regarding current lease obligations.

ITEM 3.       LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

On approximately January 15, 1999, UNITE filed an unfair labor practice charge
against us, alleging that attorney Dennis Hershewe violated Section 8(a)(1) of
the National Labor Relations Act ("the Act") by questioning our employee Maria
Perez about her union activities at the deposition he conducted in her workers'
compensation case. Mr. Hershewe represents Fireman's Fund Insurance Company, our
workers' compensation insurance carrier. GUESS? investigated the charge and
responded to it on March 10, 1999. The NLRB issued a complaint on part of the
charge on October 14, 1999, and we filed an answer on October 21, 1999. On July
6, 2000, the complaint was dismissed in its entirety. The NLRB appealed the
decision and both sides submitted briefs in September of 2000. We are awaiting a
decision on the appeal.

On May 21, 1999, we filed a demand for arbitration against Pour le Bebe, Inc.
and Pour la Maison, Inc. (collectively, "PLB") seeking damages and injunctive
relief in connection with four written license agreements between the parties.
We alleged that PLB defaulted under the license agreements, that the license
agreements properly were terminated and that PLB breached the license
agreements. On July 19, 1999, PLB filed a counterdemand for arbitration against
us. PLB sought damages and injunctive relief against us alleging breach of
contract, violation of the California Franchise Relations Act, interference with
prospective economic advantage, unlawful business practices, statutory unfair
competition and fraud. The arbitration was conducted before the American
Arbitration Association pursuant to arbitration clauses in the license
agreements.

On June 9, 2000, the arbitrators issued a final award in our favor and
rejected each of PLB's counterclaims. The amount of this award was
$7,659,677. Thereafter, the Company filed a petition to confirm the
arbitration award and PLB filed a petition to vacate the award. On September
29, 2000, the court confirmed the final award and denied PLB's petition to
vacate. On October 23, 2000, the court entered judgment confirming the final
arbitration award and the case has been resolved. Because of the uncertainty
of the ultimate realization of the award, no recognition has been given to it
in our consolidated financial statements.

On June 9, 1999, we commenced a lawsuit in the Los Angeles County Superior Court
against Kyle Kirkland, Kirkland Messina LLC, and CKM Securities (collectively
"Kirkland") for tortious interference, unfair competition, fraud and related
claims. This action arises out of alleged misrepresentations and omissions of
material fact made by Kirkland in connection with the operations and financial
performance of PLB. On March 29, 2000, the California Court of Appeal determined
that the action will proceed in court. Kirkland's petition for review to the
California Supreme Court was denied on July 12, 2000. No trial date has been
set.

On March 28, 2000 a complaint was filed against us in San Diego County Superior
Court entitled Snodgrass v. Guess?, Inc. and GUESS? Retail, Inc. The complaint
purports to be a class action filed on behalf of current and former store
management employees in California. Plaintiffs seek overtime wages and a
preliminary and permanent injunction. The parties have stipulated that a limited
class composed only of visual co-managers and co-managers should be certified.
The Court certified this limited class on March 16, 2001. The trial date has
been set for November 9, 2001.

On May 4, 2000, a complaint was filed against the Company and Mr. Paul Marciano
in the Los Angeles Superior Court - Michel Benasra v. Paul Marciano and Guess?,
Inc. The complaint grows out of the arbitration between the Company and PLB,
discussed above. The plaintiff, the President of PLB, alleges that defendants
made defamatory statements about him during the arbitration. Plaintiff seeks
general damages of $50,000,000 and


                                       12
<PAGE>

unspecified punitive damages. Defendants moved to compel arbitration of this
matter, or alternatively, to strike the action under the state's anti-SLAPP
(Strategic Litigation Against Public Participation) statute. The motion to
compel arbitration was denied and the decision has been appealed. Pending
resolution on appeal, this matter has been stayed. No trial date has been set.

On January 30, 2001, Guess?, Inc. Maurice Marciano, Armand Marciano, Paul
Marciano, and Brian Fleming were named as defendants in a securities class
action entitled David Osher v. Guess?, Inc., et al., filed in the United
States District Court for the Central District of California. Seven
additional class actions have been filed in the Central District, naming the
same defendants: Robert M. Nuckols v. Guess?, Inc. et al., Brett Dreyfuss v.
Guess?, Inc. et al., both filed February 1, 2001; Jerry Sloan v. Guess?,
Inc., et al., filed February 6, 2001; Jerry Byrd v. Guess?, Inc., et al;
filed February 13, 2001; Patrick and Kristine Liska v. Guess?, Inc., et al,
filed February 14, 2001; Darrin Wegman v. Guess?, Inc., et al., filed
February 22, 2001; and Rosie Gindie v. Guess?, Inc., et al., filed February
22, 2001. All eight complaints purport to state claims under Section 10(b)
and 20(a) and Rule 10b-5 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and allege
that defendants made materially false and misleading statements relating to
the Company's inventory and financial condition during the class period. In
Osher, Nuckols, Byrd, Wegman and Sloan, the class period is February 14, 2000
through January 26, 2001; in Dreyfuss, Liska and Gindie the class period is
February 14, 2000 through November 9, 2000. We are awaiting Court approval of
a stipulation to extend our time to respond until 45 days after a lead
plaintiff has been appointed and has filed a consolidated amended complaint.

On March 15, 2001, a complaint was filed by Susan Goldman, derivatively on
behalf of nominal defendant Guess?, Inc. against Bryan Isaacs, Alice Kane,
Robert Davis, Armand Marciano, Paul Marciano, Maurice Marciano, Howard Socol and
Guess?, Inc. in the Court of Chancery for the State of Delaware. The complaint
alleges misappropriation of corporate information, insider trading and other
purported breaches of fiduciary duty by the Company and its Board of Directors.
Our response is due April 10, 2001.

We cannot predict the outcome of these matters. We believe the outcome of one or
more of the above cases could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations or financial condition.

Most major corporations, particularly those operating retail businesses, become
involved from time to time in a variety of employment-related claims and other
matters incidental to their business in addition to those described above. In
the opinion of our management, the resolution of any of these pending incidental
matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations or financial condition.

ITEM 4.       SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote during the fourth quarter of fiscal year
2000.

                                   PART II

ITEM 5.       MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
              MATTERS

         Since August 8, 1996, the Company's Common Stock has been listed on the
New York Stock Exchange under the symbol 'GES.' The following table sets forth,
for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices of the Company's Common
Stock, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              HIGH       LOW
                                             ------     ------
<S>                                          <C>        <C>
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000
First Quarter 2000                           $33.00     $18.63
Second Quarter 2000                           32.44      11.13
Third Quarter 2000                            23.13       9.25
Fourth Quarter 2000                           11.50       3.50

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
First Quarter 1999                             9.50       4.88
Second Quarter 1999                           14.25       6.13
Third Quarter 1999                            16.63      10.38
Fourth Quarter 1999                           22.94      11.13
</TABLE>


                                       13
<PAGE>

On March 12, 2001, the closing sales price per share of the Company's common
Stock, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape, was $6.16.
On March 12, 2001, there were 194 holders of record of the Company's Common
Stock.

DIVIDEND POLICY

         We intend to use our cash flow from operations in 2001 principally to
finance the expansion and remodel of our retail stores, shop-in-shop programs
and operations. Any future determination as to the payment of dividends will be
at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors and will depend upon our
results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other
factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. The agreement governing our
revolving credit facility and the indenture pursuant to which the Company's
Senior Subordinated Notes, due 2003, were issued restrict the payment of
dividends by the Company.

Since our IPO on August 8, 1996, we have not declared any dividends on our
Common Stock.

ITEM 6.       SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         The selected financial data set forth below have been derived from the
audited consolidated financial statements of the Company and the related notes
thereto. The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction
with the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes
contained herein and with "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Year Ended December 31,

                                                     2000         1999         1998         1997         1996
                                                   --------     --------     --------     --------     --------
                                                            (in thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                                <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
STATEMENT OF EARNINGS DATA:
    Net revenue                                    $779,217     $599,650     $471,931     $515,372     $551,162
    Earnings from operations                         43,349       93,776       57,046       70,646       98,095
    Earnings before interest and income taxes        43,349       96,485       56,183       68,605       97,106
    Net earnings                                     16,493       51,900       25,111       37,511       66,741

SUPPLEMENTAL STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS DATA: ( 1)
    Earnings before income taxes and change
        in accounting principle (2)                  29,593       87,100       43,291       54,887       82,567
    Income taxes                                     13,100       35,200       18,180       21,337       33,241
    Net earnings                                     16,493       51,900       25,111       37,511       49,326
EARNINGS PER SHARE(3):
    Basic                                              0.38         1.21         0.59         0.87         1.18
    Diluted                                            0.38         1.20         0.59         0.87         1.18
Weighted number of shares outstanding --
  basic (3)                                          43,464       43,005       42,904       42,898       41,906
Weighted number of shares outstanding --
  diluted (3)                                        43,819       43,366       42,919       42,902       41,908
</TABLE>


                                       14
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              December 31,
                                     ------------------------------------------------------------
                                       2000         1999         1998         1997         1996
                                     --------     --------     --------     --------     --------
<S>                                  <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
BALANCE SHEET DATA:
Working capital                      $ 96,289     $ 97,944     $101,310     $106,670     $ 76,821
Total assets                          419,683      369,036      263,772      287,814      239,306
Notes payable and long-term debt      103,781       83,363       99,000      141,517      127,316
Net stockholders' equity              175,156      167,355      100,409       75,330       34,928
</TABLE>

(1)      Reflects pro forma adjustments for 1996 for Federal and state income
         taxes as if the Company had been taxed as a C corporation rather than
         an S corporation. Prior to the Company's IPO in August 1996, the
         Company had elected to be taxed as an S corporation for Federal income
         tax purposes. In certain states, the Company was taxed as an S
         corporation; in other states, the Company was taxed as a C corporation.
         Effective January 1, 1991, the Company elected to be treated as an S
         corporation for California tax purposes. As a result of the Company's
         IPO, all S corporation elections were terminated.

(2)     Effective January 1, 1997, the Company changed its method of accounting
        for product display fixtures located in its wholesale customers' retail
        stores, whereby the costs for such fixtures are capitalized and
        amortized over five years using the straight-line method. In prior
        years, these costs had been expensed as incurred. The Company believes
        that this new method more closely matches the long-term benefit that the
        product display fixtures provide with the expected future revenue from
        such fixtures. The cumulative effect of the change in accounting
        principle, recorded in the first quarter of 1997, is calculated based
        upon the retroactive effect of applying the new accounting method to
        prior year fixture acquisitions. The cumulative effect of the change in
        accounting principle of $4.0 million ($0.09 per share) (after reduction
        for income tax expense of $2.7 million) is included in earnings for the
        year ended December 31, 1997. Excluding the cumulative effect of the
        change in accounting principle, the effect of the change during 1997 was
        to increase net earnings by approximately $6.2 million or $0.14 per
        share.

(3)     The weighted number of shares outstanding at December 31, 1996
        reflects (i) 32,681,819 shares of Common Stock outstanding prior to
        the IPO and the assumed issuance of 8,730,000 shares of Common Stock
        at the IPO price ($18.00 per share) to generate sufficient cash to
        pay a distribution of retained earnings to its then existing
        stockholders as part of the termination of its S corporation status
        in an amount equal to retained earnings as of the IPO date and (ii)
        an average of 42,682,000 shares outstanding subsequent to the IPO,
        representing the actual shares outstanding.

ITEM 7.       MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
              RESULTS OF OPERATION

GENERAL

         We derive our net revenue from the sale of GUESS men's, women's, boys'
and girls' apparel and our licensees' products through our network of retail and
factory outlet stores primarily in the United States, from the sale of GUESS
men's, women's, boys' and girls' apparel worldwide to wholesale customers and
distributors, from net royalties from worldwide licensing activities, from the
sale of GUESS apparel through the retail and wholesale channels of our 60% owned
Canadian subsidiary, GUESS? Canada Corporation ("Guess Canada"), and from the
sale of GUESS men's, women's, boys' and girls' apparel and our licensee products
through our on-line store at www.guess.com.

         The business segments of the Company are wholesale, retail and
licensing operations. Management evaluates segment performance based
primarily on revenue and earnings from operations.

                                       15
<PAGE>

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following table sets forth actual operating results for the 2000, 1999 and
1998 fiscal years as a percentage of net revenue:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              Year Ended December 31,
                                                                     -------------------------------------
                                                                       2000           1999          1998
                                                                     --------       --------      --------
<S>                                                                      <C>            <C>           <C>
Product sales                                                            95.2%          93.4%         92.2%
Net royalties                                                             4.8            6.6           7.8
                                                                     --------       --------      --------
    Total net revenue                                                   100.0          100.0         100.0
Cost of sales                                                            63.6           55.3          57.7
                                                                     --------       --------      --------
Gross profit                                                             36.4           44.7          42.3
Selling, general and administrative expenses                             29.9           28.5          30.2
Severance (recovery) related to distribution facility relocation         (0.2)           0.5            --
Restructuring and impairment charges                                      1.1             --            --
                                                                     --------       --------      --------
    Earnings from operations                                              5.6           15.7          12.1
Gain on disposition of property and equipment                              --            0.6            --
Interest, net                                                             1.8            1.6           2.7
Other net                                                                  --            0.2           0.2
                                                                     --------       --------      --------
    Earnings before income taxes                                          3.8           14.5           9.2
Income taxes                                                              1.7            5.9           3.9
                                                                     --------       --------      --------
    Net earnings                                                          2.1%           8.6%          5.3%
                                                                     ========       ========      =========
</TABLE>


YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999.

         NET REVENUE. Net revenue increased $179.5 million or 29.9% to $779.2
million for the year ended December 31, 2000 from $599.7 million for the year
ended December 31, 1999.

Net revenue from retail operations increased $93.1 million or 31.1% to $392.5
million for the year ended December 31, 2000 from $299.4 million for the year
ended December 31, 1999. The increase in net revenues was attributable to the
volume generated by 56 new stores coupled with a 5.8% increase in comparable
store sales. While comparable store sales were strong during the first six
months of 2000, increasing 14.2%, our sales trends decelerated in the third
quarter, and comparable store sales declined 3.7% in the fourth quarter of
2000, partly due to a challenging retail environment. These lower than
expected sales trends also impacted our new stores, including the new stores
in Canada and the Guess? Kids' stores.

Net revenue from wholesale operations increased $88.3 million or 33.9% to
$348.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $260.6 million for
the year ended December 31, 1999. Domestic and international wholesale
operations net revenue increased, for the year ended December 31, 2000, by
$61.0 million to $289.9 million and by $27.3 million to $59.0 million,
respectively. Our domestic wholesale net revenue increased primarily as a
result of the increased demand for fashion products in both our women's and
men's lines. International wholesale operations net revenue increased
primarily as a result of higher sales in Asia and the full-year inclusion of
Guess Canada's operations which contributed $20.4 million in international
wholesale net revenue for the 2000 year.

Net royalties decreased by $1.8 million or 4.6% to $37.8 million for the year
ended December 31, 2000 from $39.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1999.
The decrease in net royalties was related to the discontinuation of certain
licenses and the impact of currency devaluation in European and Asian markets.
Net revenue from international operations comprised 1.7% and 6.7% of net product
royalties during 2000 and 1999, respectively.


                                       16
<PAGE>

         GROSS PROFIT. Gross profit increased 5.8% to $283.6 million for the
year ended December 31, 2000 from $268.0 million for the year ended December 31,
1999. The increase in gross profit resulted from higher net revenue from product
sales. Gross profit from product sales increased 7.6% to $245.8 million for the
2000 fiscal year from $228.4 million for the 1999 fiscal year.

Gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of total net revenue) decreased to
36.4% for the year ended December 31, 2000 from 44.7% for the year ended
December 31, 1999. Gross margin from product sales decreased to 33.2% for the
year ended December 31, 2000 from 40.8% for the year ended December 31, 1999.

The decrease in gross margin from product sales was experienced in both our
retail and wholesale operations. Gross margin in our retail operation in
fiscal year 2000 was negatively impacted by increased promotional markdowns
to reduce excess inventory, inventory write-downs, higher shrinkage results
and higher occupancy costs due to the lower sales productivity of new stores
and rent expenses for stores not opened. Royalty revenues as a percentage of
total net revenue decreased from 6.6% in 1999 to 4.8% in 2000. This reduced
overall gross margins as royalty revenue has no associated cost of sales.

Gross margin in our wholesale domestic and international operations in fiscal
year 2000 was negatively impacted by higher markdown and return allowances to
department and specialty stores and sales to the off-price channels at prices
below cost, or reduced margin in an effort to reduce excess inventory. In
addition, the Company recorded special charges of approximately $10.3 million
to reduce inventories to the lower of cost or market.

         SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES. Selling, general and
administrative ("SG&A") expenses increased to $233.2 million, or 29.9% of net
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $171.0 million, or 28.5% of
net revenues for the year ended December 31, 1999.

SG&A expenses increased 36.4% in 2000 compared to 1999 as a result of
expenses necessary to operate new stores, higher costs at the new
distribution facility, including start-up expenses and higher payroll due to
lower productivity and higher unit volume, increased expenses incurred by
Guess Canada, higher advertising expenses and consulting fees. During the
first six months of 2000, we incurred start-up and other non-recurring
pre-tax costs of $5.3 million relating to the relocation of our distribution
operation to Kentucky. Additionally, at the beginning of the first quarter
2000, we revised our vacation pay policies to enhance employee benefits,
which resulted in a one-time pre-tax charge of $1.3 million.

         SEVERANCE RECOVERY RELATED TO DISTRIBUTION FACILITY RELOCATION. In
accordance with the requirements of EITF 94-3, "Liability Recognition for
Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity
(including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)," the Company recorded
a $3.2 million charge, in the second quarter ended June 26, 1999, for future
severance costs of 460 employees related to the relocation of its
distribution operations from Los Angeles to Louisville, Kentucky. As a result
of employee transfers and attrition of 228 employees the severance costs
actually incurred for Los Angeles-based employees was $1.7 million which has
resulted in a recovery of $1.5 million of the severance charge in the second
quarter of 2000. The Company successfully completed the transition of all
product lines to the new distribution center during the second quarter of
2000. Because distribution operations were transferred to Kentucky, the
Company does not expect to experience significant reduced employee expenses.

         RESTRUCTURING AND IMPAIRMENT CHARGES. During the fourth quarter
ended December 31, 2000, the Company recorded restructuring charges including
store closure costs primarily related to rent paid and esimated rent to be
paid on idle lease facilities, lease exit costs and construction costs of
stores abandoned during construction in the amount of $4.5 million. This is
inclusive of charges of $0.8 million of asset impairments for
under-performing stores that the Company plans to close. Cash payments of
approximately $1.7 million consisting primarily of estimated rent to be paid
on idle lease facilities and lease exit costs are anticipated to be paid
during 2001. Annual rental savings from these closures should approximate
$1.7 million per year. Annual depreciation expense savings from these
closures is not expected to be significant.

         The Company also recorded an additional $4.1 million of charges to
write-down the value of certain impaired assets, including fixed assets related
to unprofitable stores and an investment the Company has in an internet company.
Related annual depreciation is expected to be reduced by approximatley $0.3
million.

         EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS. Earnings from operations were $43.3 million
in 2000 as compared to $93.8 million in 1999, a decrease of $50.5 million or
53.8%. The decrease in earnings from operations for the retail operating
segment to $3.4 million in 2000, from $37.1 million in 1999 resulted
principally from store restructuring and impairment charges of $6.2 million
as discussed above, higher occupancy costs and higher new store expenses. The
decrease in earnings from operations for the wholesale operating segment to
$9.2 million in 2000 from $25.1 million in 1999 resulted principally from
increased markdown and return allowances, start-up and other non-recurring
costs related to the relocation of our distribution operation and increased
SG&A expenses. Earnings from operations for the licensing operating segment
decreased to $30.8 million in 2000, from $31.6 million in 1999 principally
due to fewer licenses in 2000.

         INTEREST EXPENSE, NET. Interest expense, net, increased to $13.8
million for the year ended December 31, 2000 from $9.4 million for the year
ended December 31, 1999. This increase resulted from higher outstanding average
debt, due to higher inventory levels throughout the year and significant capital
expenditures during 2000. For the year ended December 31, 2000, the average debt
balance was $131.6 million, with an average effective interest rate of 9.0%. For
the year ended December 31, 1999, the average debt balance was $93.1 million,
with an average effective interest rate of 9.5%.

         INCOME TAXES. The income tax provision for the year ended December 31,
2000 was $13.1 million, or a 44.3% effective tax rate. The income tax provision
for the year ended December 31, 1999 was $35.2 million, or a


                                       17
<PAGE>

40.4% effective tax rate. The effective tax rate for 2000 was negatively
impacted by a foreign subsidiary loss and potential income tax liabilities as a
result of federal and certain state income tax audits.

         NET EARNINGS. Net earnings decreased to $16.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 2000 from $51.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1999.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998.

         NET REVENUE. Net revenue increased $127.7 million or 27.1% to $599.7
million for the year ended December 31, 1999 from $471.9 million for the year
ended December 31, 1998. Net revenue from retail operations increased $76.7
million or 34.5% to $299.4 million for the year ended December 31, 1999 from
$222.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1998, from a 26.8% increase in
comparable store net revenue and from the volume generated by our new store
openings. The strong increase in comparable store net revenue was primarily
attributable to our improved merchandising and our fashioned-focused product
mix. The retail segment is benefiting from our improved customer service levels
resulting from our enhanced personnel training and incentive programs that have
been offered to our associates.

Net revenue from wholesale operations increased $48.1 million or 22.6% to $260.6
million for the year ended December 31, 1999 from $212.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 1998. Domestic and international wholesale operations net
revenue increased, for the year ended December 31, 1999, by $40.6 million to
$228.7 million and by $7.4 million to $31.9 million, respectively. Our domestic
wholesale net revenue increased primarily as a result of the increased demand
for fashion products in both of our women's and men's lines. International
wholesale operations net revenue increased due primarily to increased sales from
the European market, partially offset by soft performance in the Asian and South
American markets. GUESS Canada contributed $12.1 million in international net
revenues during the second half for the year ended December 31, 1999. Net
royalties increased $2.8 million or 7.7%, to $39.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 1999 from $36.8 million for the year ended December 31, 1998. The
increase in net royalties was primarily due to settlements and adjustments
related to us terminating licensees, partially offset by us discontinuing
certain licenses that were brought back in-house and the continuing economic
turmoil and currency devaluation in Asian markets. Net revenue from
international operations comprised 6.7% and 5.6% of net product revenue during
1999 and 1998, respectively.

         GROSS PROFIT. Gross profit increased 34.1% to $268.0 million for the
year ended December 31, 1999 from $199.9 million for the year ended December 31,
1998. The increase in gross profit resulted from higher net revenue from product
sales. Gross profit from product sales increased 40.1% to $228.4 million for the
year ended December 31, 1999 from $163.0 million for the year ended December 31,
1998. Gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of total net revenue) increased
to 44.7% for the year ended December 31, 1999 as compared to 42.3% for the year
ended December 31, 1998. Gross margin from product sales increased to 40.8% for
the year ended December 31, 1999 compared to 37.5% for the year ended December
31, 1998.

The increase in our gross margin from product sales was primarily the result of
fixed store occupancy costs being spread over a larger comparable store revenue
base, a favorable mix in retail net revenue, which generally carries a higher
gross margin rate, lower off-price sales and a decrease in wholesale markdowns
and allowances as a percentage of wholesale net revenues.

Furthermore, during the fourth quarter of 1999, we enhanced our ability to
estimate reserves through improved processes and more current and accurate data.
As a result, we revised our estimate of certain reserves. This resulted in a
reduction of cost of sales of $2.3 million and an increase in gross margin of
$2.3 million or 2.4%.

         SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES. Selling, general and
administrative ("SG&A") expenses of $171.0 million for the year ended December
31, 1999 decreased to 28.5% of net revenue, from 30.3% of net revenue or $142.8
million, in the year ended December 31, 1998. The decrease in SG&A expenses as a
percentage of net revenue was due to our ability to leverage certain expenses
against a higher revenue base, as well as the success of our ongoing cost
containment programs.

         GAIN ON DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT. We realized a
non-recurring pre-tax gain of $3.8 million on the disposition of property and
equipment.


                                       18
<PAGE>

         SEVERANCE (RECOVERY) RELATED TO DISTRIBUTION FACILITY RELOCATION. In
accordance with the requirements of EITF 94-3, "Liability for Certain
Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including
Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)," we recorded a $3.2 million
charge for future severance costs related to the relocation of our
distribution operations from Los Angeles, California to Louisville, Kentucky.

         EARNINGS FROM OPERATIONS . Earnings from operations increased 64.4% to
$93.8 million, or 15.6% of net revenue, for the year ended December 31, 1999
from $57.0 million, or 12.1% of net revenue, for the year ended December 31,
1998. The increase was primarily due to higher revenue.

         INTEREST EXPENSE, NET. Net interest expense decreased 27.1% to $9.4
million for the year ended December 31, 1999 from $12.9 million for the year
ended December 31, 1998. This decrease resulted primarily from a lower
outstanding average debt. For the year ended December 31, 1999, the average debt
balance was $93.1 million, with an average effective interest rate of 9.5%. For
the year ended December 31, 1998, the average debt balance was $135.5 million,
with an average effective interest rate of 9.0%.

         INCOME TAXES. The income tax provision for the year ended December 31,
1999 was $35.2 million, or a 40.4% effective tax rate. The income tax provision
for the year ended December 31, 1998 was $18.2 million, or a 42.0% effective tax
rate. The effective tax for 1998 was adversely impacted by Federal and state
income taxes related to a dividend declared to us by one of our foreign
subsidiaries.

         NET EARNINGS. Net earnings increased to $51.9 million for the year
ended December 31, 1999, from $25.1 million for the year ended December 31,
1998.


                                       19
<PAGE>

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

         During our fiscal year 2000, we relied primarily on borrowings under
our $125.0 million Credit Agreement ("Credit Facility"), trade credit and
internally generated funds to finance our operations and expansion. Net cash
provided by operating activities decreased $57.1 million to $30.2 million for
the year ended December 31, 2000, from $87.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 1999. The decrease in the current year was primarily due to
lower earnings. At December 31, 2000, we had working capital of $96.3 million
compared to $97.9 million at December 31, 1999. The net decrease in working
capital was primarily attributable to decreases in short-term investments and
receivables, increases in inventories and other current assets, partially
offset by increases in accounts payable and an increase in current
installments of notes payable and long-term debt. The most significant
changes were represented by short-term investments, which decreased by $26.2
million due to the sale of investments to fund the business expansion,
inventories, which increased $37.6 million due to new stores and growth in
the wholesale business and accounts payable, which increased $22.3 million as
a result of increased inventories.

         On December 3, 1999, we entered into a Credit Facility with Chase
Manhattan Bank that replaced our $100.0 million revolving credit facility
entered into in March 1997. The Credit Facility provides us with a $125.0
million revolving credit facility subject to a borrowing base calculation and
is secured by inventory and accounts receivable including a $50.0 million
sub-limit for letters of credit. The Credit Facility bears interest at the
London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus a range as defined or the
greater of the Prime rate, the base CD rate plus 100 basis points or the
Federal Funds Effective Rate (collectively "ABR") plus a range as defined
depending on the duration and type of loan facility. The Credit Facility
expires on October 31, 2002. Borrowing under the Credit Facility primarily
funded capital projects and growth in inventories. At December 31, 2000, we
had $22.4 million outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility, $17.6
million in outstanding documentary letters of credit and $4.0 million in
standby letters of credit. At December 31, 2000, we had $81.0 million
available for future borrowings under the Credit Facility. The Credit
Facility contains restrictive covenants requiring, among other things, the
maintenance of certain financial ratios. As a result of lower than expected
financial results in the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2000, the Company was
in non-compliance with the terms of the Credit Facility regarding the fixed
charge coverage ratio required for the twelve-month period ended December 31,
2000. On March 27, 2001 the Company's bank lenders agreed to amend the Credit
Facility Agreement to cure all past non-compliance and revise certain terms,
including modifications to the financial covenants, the addition of a
liquidity ratio and an amendment to the range of interest rates based on the
leverage ratio as follows: LIBOR plus 100 basis points to LIBOR plus 225
basis points, ABR to ABR plus 125 basis points and commitment fees of 25
basis points to 62.5 basis points. Accordingly, the Company is presently in
full compliance with all the terms of the Credit Facility, as amended.

         The Company has also agreed to provide long-term financing of up to
$13.4 million to Guess Canada to expand its retail operations, of which $12.3
million was outstanding as of December 31, 2000. The remaining funding is
being provided on an as-needed basis.

         Capital expenditures, net of lease incentives granted, totaled $79.1
million for 2000 and $62.0 million for 1999. The increase in capital
expenditures was due primarily to our increase in store openings and
remodels, the retail expansion of Guess Canada, our expansion of shop-in
shops in department stores and investments in our systems infrastructure.
Capital expenditures by our retail operating segment increased to $57.3
million in 2000 from $26.5 million in 1999 primarily due to retail store
expansion and store remodels. Capital expenditures by our wholesale operating
segment decreased to $21.8 million in 2000 from $35.5 million in 1999 as the
distribution facility construction costs were primarily incurred in 1999. Our
capital expenditures planned for 2001 are approximately $40.0 million,
primarily for retail store expansion, including our expansion in Canada,
store remodelings, investments in systems and shop-in-shop expansion and
enhancements.

         We anticipate we will be able to satisfy our ongoing cash requirements
through 2001, including retail expansion plans and interest payments on our
senior subordinated notes due 2003 (such interest payments paid by us during
2000 amounted to $7.6 million), primarily with cash flow from operations,
supplemented by borrowings under our Credit Facility.

IMPORTANT FACTORS REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

         Various forward-looking statements have been made in this Form 10-K.
Forward-looking statements may also be in our other reports filed under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in our press releases and in other documents.
In addition, from time to time, we, through our management, may make oral
forward-looking statements.

         Forward-looking statements are only expectations, and involve known and
unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results in future
periods and other future events to differ materially from what is currently
anticipated. Certain statements in this Form 10-K, including those relating to
our expected results, the accuracy of data relating to, and anticipated levels
of, our future inventory and gross margins, our anticipated cash requirements
and sources, our cost containment efforts, our plans regarding store openings
and closings and our business seasonality, are forward-looking statements. Such
statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to
differ materially from those set forth in these statements. In addition to the
factors discussed below, the economic and other factors identified elsewhere in
this Form 10-K, as well as the risk factors discussed in our previously filed
public documents, could affect the forward-looking statements contained herein
and therein.


                                       20

<PAGE>

         Forward-looking statements generally refer to future plans and
performance, and are identified by the words "believe," "expect," "anticipate,"
"optimistic," "intend," "aim," "will" or the negative thereof and similar
expressions. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of which they are
made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any
forward-looking statements.

Important factors which could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations and could cause actual results in future
periods to differ materially from our forward-looking statements, as well as
affect our ability to achieve our financial and other goals, include, but are
not limited to, the following:

- -    The lack of continued availability of sufficient working capital.

- -    Our inability to integrate new stores into existing operations.

- -    The decline in continued desirability and customer acceptance of our
     existing and future products.

- -    Possible cancellation of wholesale orders.

- -    The success of our competitive products.

- -    Our inability to strengthen our inventory cost accounting
     controls and procedures.

- -    Our inability to identify and respond appropriately to changing consumer
     demands and fashion trends.

- -    A decision by the controlling owner of a group of department stores or any
     other significant customer to decrease the amount purchased from us or to
     cease carrying GUESS products.

- -    Our inability to control the quality, focus, image, financial stability or
     distribution of our licensed products, which could impact consumer
     receptivity to our products.

- -    Our failure to continue to enhance operating control systems.

- -    The outcomes of pending and future litigation.

- -    Factors beyond our control, such as which could have a material adverse
     effect on our ability to expand our network of retail stores. Our general
     failure to maintain and control our existing distribution and licensing
     arrangements or to procure additional distribution and licensing
     relationships.

- -    Changes in the economy.

- -    The extended loss of the services of one or more of our principal executive
     officers.

- -    Political instability resulting in the disruption of trade with the
     countries in which our contractors, suppliers or customers are located, the
     imposition of additional regulations relating to imports, the imposition of
     additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports, significant
     fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies or
     restrictions on the transfer of funds. Also, a substantial increase in
     customs duties, which could have an adverse effect on our financial
     condition or results of operations. These factors may be exacerbated by
     our increasing use of packaged purchase sourcing from non-United States
     vendors.


                                       21
<PAGE>

- -    The inability of a manufacturer to ship our products in a timely manner or
     to meet our quality standards.

- -    No assurance can be given that others will not assert rights in, or
     ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of GUESS?. In
     addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect proprietary
     rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.

SEASONALITY

         Our business is impacted by general seasonal trends characteristic of
the apparel and retail industries. Our retail operations are generally stronger
in the third and fourth quarters, while our wholesale operations generally
experience stronger performance in the first and third quarters. As the timing
of the shipment of products may vary from year to year, the result for any
particular quarter may not be indicative of results for the full year. We have
not had significant overhead and other costs generally associated with large
seasonal variations.

INFLATION

         We do not believe the relatively moderate rates of inflation
experienced in the United States over the last three years have had a
significant effect on our net revenue or profitability. Although higher rates of
inflation have been experienced in a number of foreign countries in which our
products are manufactured, we do not believe they have had a material adverse
effect on our net revenue or profitability.

IMPACT OF RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

         In June 1998, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 133") was
issued and subsequently amended by SFAS 137. SFAS 133 establishes accounting and
reporting standards for derivative instruments and for hedging activities. It is
effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. We believe the
adoption of SFAS 133 will not have a material impact on our financial reporting.

ITEM 7A.      QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS

         We receive United States dollars for substantially all of our product
sales and our licensing revenues. Inventory purchases from offshore contract
manufacturers are primarily denominated in United States dollars; however,
purchase prices for our products may be impacted by fluctuations in the exchange
rate between the United States dollar and the local currencies of the contract
manufacturers, which may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods in the
future. In addition, royalties received from our international licensees are
subject to foreign currency translation fluctuations as a result of the net
sales of the licensee being denominated in local currency and royalties being
paid to us in United States dollars. During the last three fiscal years,
exchange rate fluctuations have not had a material impact on our inventory
costs.

         We may enter into derivative financial instruments, including forward
exchange contracts, to manage foreign exchange risk on foreign currency
transactions. These financial instruments can be used to protect us from the
risk that the eventual net cash inflows from the foreign currency transactions
will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. Unrealized gains and
losses on outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts, used to hedge future
revenues and purchases, are not recorded in the financial statements but are
included in the measurement of the related hedged transaction when realized.
The Company will adopt SFAS 133 effective January 1, 2001. This could impact
the Company's accounting of derivatives.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
      FORWARD EXCHANGE           U.S. DOLLAR                                               FAIR VALUE IN U.S. $
         CONTRACTS               EQUIVALENT                 MATURITY DATE                  AT DECEMBER 31, 2000
      ----------------           -----------                -------------                  --------------------
<S>                              <C>           <C>                                         <C>
      Canadian dollars          $  750,000     December 15, 2000 to January 16, 2001            $  764,161
      Canadian dollars           1,000,000     January 3, 2001 to January 31, 2001               1,017,948
      Canadian dollars           1,000,000     January 16, 2001 to February 16, 2001             1,016,547
      Canadian dollars             750,000     February 1, 2001 to February 28,2001                763,911
</TABLE>

Based upon the rates at December 31, 2000, the cost to buy the equivalent
U.S. dollars discussed above was approximately $5.3 million Canadian currency.

At December 31, 2000, 76% of the Company's indebtedness contained a fixed
interest rate of 9.5%. Substantially all of the Company's remaining
indebtedness, including borrowings under its $125 million credit facility is at


                                       22
<PAGE>

variable rates of interest. Accordingly, changes in interest rates would
impact the Company's results of operations in future periods. A 10% change in
interest rate is not expected to significantly impact the Company's operating
results.

ITEM 8.       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data listed in Item 14 of
Part IV of this report.

ITEM 9.       CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.      DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The information required by this item can be found under the caption
"Directors and Executive Officers" of the Company's Proxy Statement (the
"Proxy Statement") to be distributed April 9, 2001, for the 2001 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 14, 2001. Such information is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND OTHER INFORMATION

The information in the Proxy Statement set forth under the caption "Executive
Compensation" is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information set forth under the caption "Security Ownership and Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 13.      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information set forth under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.      EXHIBITS, CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, AND REPORTS
ON FORM 8-K

(a)      Documents Filed with Report

         (1)      Consolidated Financial Statements

                  The financial statements listed on the accompanying Index to
                  Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement
                  Schedule is filed as part of this report.

         (2)      Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule

                  The financial statement schedule listed on the accompanying
                  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial
                  Statement Schedule are filed as part of this report.

         (3)      Exhibits

                  The exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to Exhibits is
                  filed as part of this report.

(b)      Reports on Form 8-K

         Our current report on Form 8-K dated May 8, 2000.


                                       23
<PAGE>

                                  GUESS?, INC.

                                    FORM 10-K

                          ITEMS 8, AND 14(a) AND 14(d)

   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


<TABLE>
<S>                                                                                                      <C>
1   Independent Auditors' Report                                                                          F-2
2   Audited Consolidated Financial Statements
         Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2000 and 1999                                        F-3
         Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998         F-4
         Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income for the
             Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998                                                 F-5
         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and
             1998                                                                                         F-6
         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                                       F-7
3   Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                          F-23
</TABLE>




                                      F-1
<PAGE>

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Guess?, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Guess?,
Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999 as listed in the
accompanying index. In connection with our audits of the consolidated
financial statements, we also have audited the consolidated financial
statement schedule, as listed in the accompanying index. These consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility
of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule
based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well
as evaluating the overall consolidated financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Guess?,
Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999 and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2000 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the
related consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

                                                      KPMG LLP

Los Angeles, California
    March 7, 2001, except for the penultimate
    paragraph of Note 10 and the second paragraph
    of Note 7, which are as of March 15, 2001
    and March 27, 2001,respectively




                                      F-2
<PAGE>

                          GUESS?, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                           DECEMBER 31, 2000 AND 1999
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

                                     ASSETS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                             2000              1999
                                                                                         ------------      ------------
<S>                                                                                      <C>               <C>
Current assets:
   Cash                                                                                  $     13,332      $      6,139
   Investments                                                                                    898            27,059
   Receivables, net of reserves                                                                34,383            39,673
   Inventories, net                                                                           144,220           106,624
   Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                                    9,671             8,861
   Prepaid income taxes                                                                         9,118             3,004
   Deferred tax assets                                                                         14,470             9,619
                                                                                         ------------      ------------
           Total current assets                                                               226,092           200,979

Property and equipment, at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization             168,299           125,688
Other assets, at cost, net of accumulated amortization                                         25,292            42,369
                                                                                         ------------      ------------
                                                                                         $    419,683      $    369,036
                                                                                         ============      ============

                      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
   Current installments of notes payable and long-term debt                              $     13,801      $      7,475
   Accounts payable                                                                            84,043            61,736
   Accrued expenses                                                                            31,959            33,824
                                                                                         ------------      ------------
           Total current liabilities                                                          129,803           103,035

Notes payable and long-term debt, excluding current installments                              103,781            83,363
Other liabilities                                                                              10,943            14,236
                                                                                         ------------      ------------
                                                                                              244,527           200,634
Minority interest                                                                                  --             1,047
Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders' equity:
   Preferred stock, $0.01 par value.  Authorized 10,000,000 shares; no shares issued
    and outstanding                                                                                --                --
   Common stock, $0.01 par value.  Authorized 150,000,000 shares; issued 63,594,219
    and 63,335,743 shares at 2000 and 1999, outstanding 43,563,427 and 43,304,951
    shares at 2000 and 1999,  respectively                                                        146               141
   Paid-in capital                                                                            167,833           163,300
   Deferred compensation                                                                         (950)               --
   Retained earnings                                                                          160,936           144,443
   Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)                                               (2,033)           10,247
   Treasury stock, 20,030,792 shares repurchased                                             (150,776)         (150,776)
                                                                                         ------------      ------------
     Net stockholders' equity                                                                 175,156           167,355
                                                                                         ------------      ------------
                                                                                         $    419,683      $    369,036
                                                                                         ============      ============
</TABLE>


           See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements


                                      F-3
<PAGE>

                          GUESS?, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998
                      (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    2000              1999              1998
                                                                ------------      ------------      ------------
<S>                                                             <C>               <C>               <C>
Net revenue
    Product sales                                               $    741,412      $    560,012      $    435,128
    Net royalties                                                     37,805            39,638            36,803
                                                                ------------      ------------      ------------
                                                                     779,217           599,650           471,931
Cost of sales                                                        495,604           331,660           272,079
                                                                ------------      ------------      ------------

Gross profit                                                         283,613           267,990           199,852
Selling, general and administrative expenses                         233,186           171,014           142,806
Severance (recovery) related to distribution facility relocation      (1,545)            3,200                --
Restructuring and impairment charges                                   8,623                --                --
                                                                ------------      ------------      ------------

Earnings from operations                                              43,349            93,776            57,046

Other (income) expense:
    Gain on disposition of property and equipment                         --            (3,849)               --
    Interest, net                                                     13,756             9,385            12,892
    Other, net                                                            --             1,140               863
                                                                ------------      ------------      ------------
                                                                      13,756             6,676            13,755

Earnings before income taxes                                          29,593            87,100            43,291

Income taxes                                                          13,100            35,200            18,180
                                                                ------------      ------------      ------------

Net earnings                                                    $     16,493      $     51,900      $     25,111
                                                                ============      ============      ============

EARNINGS PER SHARE:
    Basic                                                       $       0.38      $       1.21      $       0.59
    Diluted                                                     $       0.38      $       1.20      $       0.59
WEIGHTED NUMBER OF SHARES OUTSTANDING
    Basic                                                             43,464            43,005            42,904
    Diluted                                                           43,819            43,366            42,919
</TABLE>


           See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements


                                      F-4
<PAGE>

                          GUESS?, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                            AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                            Accumulated
                                   Compre-                                                    Other
                                   hensive      Common    Paid-in    Deferred    Retained  Comprehensive   Treasury
                                   Income       Stock     Capital  Compensation  Earnings  Income (Loss)    Stock        Total
                                  ---------   ---------  ---------  ---------   ---------   ------------   ---------   ---------
<S>                               <C>         <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>         <C>            <C>         <C>
Balance at December 31, 1997                  $     137  $ 158,589         --   $  67,432   $        (52)  $(150,776)  $  75,330
Comprehensive income:
   Net earnings                   $  25,111          --         --         --      25,111             --          --      25,111
   Foreign currency translation
     adjustment                         (32)         --         --         --          --            (32)         --         (32)
                                  ---------
   Total comprehensive income     $  25,079                                --
                                  =========   ---------  ---------  ---------   ---------   ------------   ---------   ---------


Balance at December 31, 1998                        137    158,589         --      92,543            (84)   (150,776)    100,409
Comprehensive income:
   Net earnings                   $  51,900          --         --         --      51,900             --          --      51,900
   Foreign currency translation
     adjustment                        (114)         --         --         --          --           (114)         --        (114)
   Unrealized gain on
     investments, net of
     tax effect                      10,445          --         --         --          --         10,445          --      10,445
                                  ---------
   Total comprehensive income     $  62,231
                                  =========

Issuance of common stock under
     stock option plan, net of
     tax effect                                       4      4,711         --          --             --          --       4,715
                                              ---------  ---------  ---------   ---------   ------------   ---------   ---------

Balance at December 31, 1999                        141    163,300         --     144,443         10,247    (150,776)    167,355
Comprehensive income:
   Net earnings                   $  16,493          --         --         --      16,493             --          --      16,493
   Foreign currency translation
     adjustment                          38          --         --         --          --             38          --          38
   Unrealized loss on
     investments, net of tax
     effect                         (12,318)         --         --         --          --        (12,318)         --     (12,318)
                                  ---------
   Total comprehensive income     $   4,213
                                  =========
Issuance of common stock under
     stock option plan, net of
     tax effect                                       3      3,585                    --             --          --       3,588

Deferred compensation                                 2        948       (950)        --             --          --          --
                                              ---------  ---------  ---------   ---------   ------------   ---------   ---------

Balance at December 31, 2000                  $     146  $ 167,833  $    (950)  $ 160,936   $    (2,033)   $(150,776)  $175,156
                                              =========  =========  =========   =========   ===========    =========   ========
</TABLE>


           See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements


                                      F-5
<PAGE>

                          GUESS?, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         2000           1999           1998
                                                                     ------------   ------------   ------------
<S>                                                                  <C>            <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
   Net earnings                                                      $     16,493   $     51,900   $     25,111
   Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided
      by operating activities:
      Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment              33,311         25,589         22,571
      Amortization of other assets                                            881          1,296            931
      Deferred income taxes                                                (6,729)        (2,150)          (834)
      Loss (gain) on disposition of property and equipment                  3,340         (5,037)         1,483
      Other items, net                                                      1,039            869             (2)
      Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
        Accounts receivable                                                 5,290            558          3,637
        Inventories                                                       (37,596)        (9,155)         2,582
        Prepaid expenses and other assets                                  (4,307)        (6,369)        15,370
        Accounts payable                                                   22,308         19,393         (5,520)
        Accrued expenses and other liabilities                             (3,858)        10,410           (129)
                                                                     ------------   ------------   ------------
      Net cash provided by operating activities                            30,172         87,304         65,200

Cash flows from investing activities:
   Purchases of property and equipment, net of lease incentives           (79,134)       (61,957)       (13,306)
   Proceeds from the disposition of property and equipment                  3,133          7,106             14
   Net proceeds (purchases) from the sale of short-term investments        22,850        (14,711)       (11,900)
   Acquisition of interest in Guess? Canada                                    --         (2,027)            --
   Increase in long-term investments                                           --         (2,357)           842
   Acquisition of license                                                     (82)        (1,443)          (741)
                                                                     ------------   ------------   ------------
      Net cash used by investing activities                               (53,233)       (75,389)       (25,091)

Cash flows from financing activities:
   Proceeds from notes payable and long-term debt                         204,661          5,529        102,300
   Repayment of notes payable and long-term debt                         (177,916)       (20,658)      (144,817)
   Issuance of common stock                                                 3,588          3,534             --
                                                                     ------------   ------------   ------------
      Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities                  30,333        (11,595)       (42,517)

Effect of exchange rates on cash                                              (79)           (34)            57
Net increase (decrease) in cash                                             7,193            286         (2,351)
Cash at beginning of year                                                   6,139          5,853          8,204
                                                                     ------------   ------------   ------------
Cash at end of year                                                  $     13,332   $      6,139   $      5,853
                                                                     ============   ============   ============

Supplemental disclosures
  Cash paid during the year for:
    Interest                                                         $     11,951   $     10,358   $     15,095
    Income taxes                                                     $     24,604   $     37,236   $      3,704

</TABLE>


           See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements


                                      F-6
<PAGE>

                          GUESS?, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(1)      SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND PRACTICES

Guess?, Inc. (the "Company" or "Guess") designs, markets, distributes and
licenses leading lifestyle collections of casual apparel and accessories for
men, women and children that reflect the American lifestyle and European
fashions sensibilities. The Company designs are sold in Guess' owned stores, to
a network of wholesale accounts that includes primarily better department
stores, selected specialty retailers and upscale boutiques and through the
Internet. Guess branded products, some of which are produced under license, are
also sold internationally through a series of licensees and distributors.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Guess?, Inc. and
its wholly-owned foreign subsidiary, Guess Europe, B.V., a Netherlands
corporation ("GEBV"), and its majority-owned subsidiary GUESS? Canada
Corporation ("Guess Canada," formerly named Strandel Inc.), a Canadian
corporation. GEBV holds three wholly-owned subsidiaries: Ranche, Limited, a Hong
Kong corporation ("Ranche"), Guess Asia, a Hong Kong corporation, and Guess
Italia, S.r.l., an Italian corporation ("Guess Italia"). Guess holds a 60%
interest in Guess Canada. Accordingly, all references herein to "Guess?, Inc."
include the consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries. All
intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated during the consolidation
process.

USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in
the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.

INVESTMENT SECURITIES

The Company accounts for its investment securities in accordance with Financial
Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
("SFAS") No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities" ("SFAS 115"). SFAS 115 requires investments to be classified into
one of three categories based on management's intent: held-to-maturity
securities, available-for-sale securities and trading securities.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost. Available-for-sale
securities are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported
as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Trading securities are recorded
at market value with unrealized gains and losses reported in operations. The
Company accounts for its short-term investment securities as available-for-sale.

EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings per share represents net earnings divided by the weighted-average
number of shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common
Stock"), outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share represents net
earnings divided by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding, inclusive
of the dilutive impact of Common Stock equivalents.

The reconciliation of basic to diluted weighted average shares is as follows (in
thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             2000         1999         1998
                                                           --------     --------     --------
<S>                                                        <C>          <C>          <C>

Weighted average shares used in basic computations           43,464       43,005       42,904
Dilutive stock options                                          355          361           15
                                                           --------     --------     --------

   Weighted average shares used in diluted computation       43,819       43,366       42,919
                                                           ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>


                                      F-7
<PAGE>

Options to purchase 550,000, 467,000 and 1,036,000 shares of Common Stock at
prices ranges from $17.64 to $27.31, $10.88 to $16.38 and $5.50 to $11.00 were
outstanding during 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, but were not included in
the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options exercise
prices were greater than the average market price of the shares of Common Stock.

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

The Company's financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit
risk consist primarily of accounts receivable. The Company maintains cash with
various major financial institutions and performs evaluations of the relative
credit standing of these financial institutions in order to limit the amount of
credit exposure with any institution. The Company extends credit to corporate
customers based upon an evaluation of the customer's financial condition and
credit history and generally requires no collateral. The Company's customers are
principally located throughout North America, and their ability to pay amounts
due to the Company may be dependent on the prevailing economic conditions of
their geographic region. However, such credit risk is considered limited due to
the Company's large customer base. Management performs regular evaluations
concerning the ability of its customers to satisfy their obligations and records
a provision for doubtful accounts based on these evaluations. The Company's
credit losses for the periods presented are insignificant and have not
significantly exceeded management's estimates. A few of the Company's domestic
wholesale customers, including some under common ownership, have accounted for
significant portions of its net revenue. Bloomingdale's, Macy's and other
affiliated stores owned by Federated Department Stores, Inc. together accounted
for approximately 11.8% and 12.4% of the Company's net revenue in 2000 and 1999,
respectively.

INVENTORIES

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out and weighted
average) or market.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

The Company recognizes retail operations revenue at the point of sale, and
wholesale operations revenue from the sale of merchandise upon shipment. Royalty
income is based upon a percentage, as defined in the underlying agreement, of
the licensees' net revenue. The Company accrues for estimated sales returns and
allowances in the period in which the related revenue is recognized.

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION

Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment are provided using the
straight-line and declining balance methods over the following useful lives:

<TABLE>
<S>                                                          <C>
         Building and building improvements                  10 to 31 years
         Land improvements                                          5 years
         Machinery and equipment                               3 to 5 years
         Corporate aircraft                                        10 years
         Corporate vehicles                                         3 years
         Shop fixtures                                              5 years
</TABLE>

Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the estimated
useful life of the asset or the term of the lease. Construction in progress is
not depreciated until the related asset is completed.


                                      F-8
<PAGE>

Goodwill, which represents the excess of purchase price over fair value of net
assets acquired, is amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected periods
to be benefited, generally 10 to 15 years. Accumulated amortization totaled
$4,470,000 and $3,589,000 at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

In accordance with SFAS No. 52, "Foreign Currency Translation," assets and
liabilities of the Company's foreign operations are translated from foreign
currencies into U.S. dollars at year-end rates, while income and expenses are
translated at the weighted-average exchange rates for the year. The related
translation adjustments are reflected as a foreign currency translation
adjustment in other comprehensive income as a separate component of
stockholders' equity.

HEDGING ACTIVITIES

At December 31, 2000, the Company had forward exchange contracts to purchase
$3.5 million U.S. currency for approximately $5.3 million Canadian currency.

Unrealized gains and losses on outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts,
used to hedge future revenues and purchases, are not recorded in the financial
statements but are included in the measurement of the related hedged transaction
when realized.

INCOME TAXES

The Company uses the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes.
Under this method, deferred income taxes are recognized for the future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
expected to be applied to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred
taxes of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that
includes the enactment date.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Comprehensive income consists of net earnings, unrealized gains or losses on
investments and foreign currency translation adjustments and is presented in the
consolidated statements of stockholders' equity and comprehensive income.

BUSINESS SEGMENT REPORTING

The Company reports information about business segments and related disclosures
about products and services, geographic areas and major customers. The business
segments of the Company are wholesale, retail and licensing operations.
Information regarding these segments is summarized in Note 13.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The carrying amount of the Company's financial instruments, which principally
include cash, short-term investments, trade receivables, accounts
payable and accrued expenses, approximates fair value due to the relatively
short maturity of such instruments. Long-term investments are recorded at
fair value.

The fair value of the Company's debt instruments are based on the amount of
future cash flows associated with each instrument discounted using the Company's
borrowing rate. At December 31, 2000 and 1999, the carrying value of all
financial instruments was not materially different from fair value, as the
fixed rate debt approximates rates currently available to the Company.


                                      F-9
<PAGE>

LONG-LIVED ASSETS

The Company reports long-lived assets, including intangibles, at amortized
cost. Long-lived assets and intangibles, including goodwill, are reviewed for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If this assessment
indicates that the assets will not be recoverable, as determined by the
non-discounted cash flow generated by the asset, the carrying value of the
Company's long-lived assets would be reduced to its estimated fair market
value based on the discounted cash flows.

ADVERTISING COSTS

The Company expenses the cost of advertising as incurred. Advertising expenses
charged to operations for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 were
$29.7 million, $24.5 million, and $18.0 million, respectively.

RECLASSIFICATIONS

Certain reclassifications have been made to the 1999 and 1998 consolidated
financial statements to conform with the 2000 presentation.

(2)      INVESTMENTS

At December 31, 2000, short-term investments consist $0.9 million of
marketable securities available for sale. At December 31, 1999, short-term
investments of $27.1 million consist mostly of overnight interest-bearing
deposit accounts.

Long-term investments consist of certain marketable equity securities
aggregating $447,000 and $21.8 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999,
respectively and are included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets. Unrealized gains (losses) related to marketable equity
securities at December 31, 2000 and 1999 amounted to ($1.9) million and $11.2
million, respectively, net of deferred tax assets (liabilities) of $1.3 million
and ($7.6) million, respectively, and are included as a component of
stockholders' equity. During 2000, the Company recorded an impairment charge
related to a certain long-term marketable equity security. See Note 16.

(3)      ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

Accounts receivable consists of trade receivables, less reserves aggregating
$15,811,000 and $8,863,000, and royalty receivables, less allowance for
doubtful accounts of $841,000 and $1,258,000 at December 31, 2000 and 1999,
respectively.

(4)      INVENTORIES

Inventories are summarized as follows (in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         2000         1999
                                       --------     --------
<S>                                    <C>          <C>
        Raw materials                  $  9,986     $  8,514
        Work in process                   6,727        6,740
        Finished goods - retail          57,702       45,750
        Finished goods - wholesale       69,805       45,620
                                       --------     --------

                                       $144,220     $106,624
                                       ========     ========
</TABLE>


As of December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 the Company reduced inventories for
lower of cost or market by $12.9 million, $2.9 million and $3.9 million,
respectively, by charging cost of sales in each respective year.

                                      F-10
<PAGE>

(5)      PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

Property and equipment is summarized as follows (in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             2000         1999
                                                           --------     --------
<S>                                                        <C>          <C>
        Land and land improvements                         $  4,586     $  5,734
        Building and building improvements                    7,306        8,462
        Leasehold improvements                               95,491       67,821
        Machinery and equipment                             131,024       86,790
        Corporate aircraft                                    6,601        6,601
        Shop fixtures                                        38,929       31,347
        Construction in progress                             10,573       23,842
                                                           --------     --------
                                                            294,510      230,597
        Less accumulated depreciation and amortization      126,211      104,909
                                                           --------     --------
                                                           $168,299     $125,688
                                                           ========     ========
</TABLE>


Construction in progress at December 31, 2000 and 1999 represents the costs
associated with the construction of buildings and improvements used in the
Company's operations and other capitalizable expenses in progress. During the
years ended December 31, 2000, and 1999, $0.4 million of interest costs were
capitalized in construction in progress. No interest costs were capitalized
for the year ended December 31, 1998.


(6)     OTHER ASSETS

Other assets is summarized as follows (in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             2000         1999
                                                           --------     --------
<S>                                                        <C>          <C>
        Goodwill, net of accumulated amortization          $11,279       $12,352
        Deferred tax assets                                  6,132            --
        Long-term investments                                  447        21,771
        Artwork                                              3,712         3,712
        Other                                                3,722         4,534
                                                           -------       -------
                                                           $25,292       $42,369
                                                           =======       =======
</TABLE>


                                      F-11
<PAGE>

(7)      NOTES PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM DEBT

Notes payable and long-term debt are summarized as follows (in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              2000         1999
                                                                            --------     --------
<S>                                                                         <C>          <C>
9 1/2% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2003                                   $ 79,562     $ 79,562
$125 million revolving credit line                                            22,400           --
Revolving bank loan bearing interest at 1.75% above the Canadian prime
    rate plus an amount equal to 0.5% per month of the average
    outstanding balance, payable on demand, but commencing
    January 1, 2001 by way of 24 equal consecutive minimum payments            3,322        2,770
Advances under a demand line of credit of $17,347 with advances thereon
     bearing interest at the Canadian prime rate plus 1%                      11,786        6,818

Other obligations, maturing in varying amounts through 2004                      512        1,688
                                                                            --------     --------
                                                                             117,582       90,838
Less current installments                                                     13,801        7,475
                                                                            --------     --------
Long-term debt, excluding current installments                              $103,781     $ 83,363
                                                                            ========     ========
</TABLE>

In December 1999, the Company entered into a $125 million Credit Agreement
("Credit Facility"), subject to a borrowing base calculation. The Credit
Facility provides the Company with a revolving credit line, which includes a
$50 million sub-limit for letters of credit. Outstanding borrowings are
secured by inventory and accounts receivable. The Credit Facility bears
interest at the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus a range as
defined or the greater of the Prime rate, the base CD rate plus 100 basis
points or the Federal Funds rate (collectively "ABR") plus a range as defined
depending on the duration and type of loan facility. The credit facility
expires on October 31, 2002. At December 31, 2000, the Company had $22.4
million of outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility, $4.0 million in
outstanding standby letters of credit and $17.6 million in outstanding
documentary letters of credit. At December 31, 2000, the Company had $81.0
million available for future borrowings under such facility. At December 31,
2000, the weighted average interest rate on the outstanding borrowings was
9.4%. The Credit Facility contains various restrictive covenants requiring,
among other things, the maintenance of certain financial fixed charge ratios.
At December 31, 2000, the Company was in technical non-compliance with the
fixed charge ratio covenant. On March 27, 2001, the Company's bank lenders
agreed to amend the Credit Facility Agreement to cure non-compliance and
revise certain terms, including modifications to the financial covenants, the
addition of a liquidity ratio and an amendment to the range of interest rates
based on the leverage ratio as follows: LIBOR plus 100 basis points to LIBOR
plus 225 basis points, ABR to ABR plus 125 basis points and commitment fees
of 25 basis points to 62.5 basis points. Accordingly, the Company is
presently in compliance with all terms of the Credit Facility, as amended.

Maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 2000 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<S>                         <C>
        2001                $  13,801
        2002                   24,042
        2003                   79,581
        2004                      158
                             --------
                             $117,582
                             ========
</TABLE>

The Senior Subordinated Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company, in
whole or in part, at any time at various redemption prices. During 1999, the
Company repurchased $19.4 million of its Senior Subordinated Notes.


                                      F-12
<PAGE>

(8)      INCOME TAXES

Income taxes are summarized as follows (in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            Year ended December 31,
                                            -----------------------
                                       2000          1999          1998
                                     --------      --------      --------
<S>                                  <C>           <C>           <C>
        Federal:
            Current                  $ 17,276      $ 32,508      $ 14,477
            Deferred                   (5,602)       (2,464)          793
        State:
            Current                     3,594         5,202         2,459
            Deferred                   (1,127)          314            41
        Foreign:
            Current                    (1,041)         (360)          410
                                     --------      --------      --------
                                     $ 13,100      $ 35,200      $ 18,180
                                     ========      ========      ========
</TABLE>

Actual income taxes differ from expected income taxes obtained by applying the
statutory Federal income tax rate to earnings before income taxes as follows (in
thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Year ended December 31,
                                                              -----------------------
                                                         2000         1999          1998
                                                       --------     --------      --------
<S>                                                    <C>          <C>           <C>
        Computed "expected" tax expense                $ 10,357     $ 30,485      $ 15,152
        State taxes, net of Federal benefit               2,210        3,586         1,625
        Foreign taxes (benefit)                             239         (273)          (14)
        U.S. tax and foreign withholding tax on
           Foreign distributions                             --           --           739
        Other                                               294        1,402           678
                                                       --------     --------      --------
                                                       $ 13,100     $ 35,200      $ 18,180
                                                       ========     ========      ========
</TABLE>

Total income taxes were allocated as follows (in thousands):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        Year ended December 31,
                                        -----------------------
                                   2000          1999         1998
                                 --------      --------     --------
<S>                              <C>           <C>          <C>
        Operations               $ 13,100      $ 35,200     $ 18,180
        Stockholders' equity      (10,769)        6,451           --

                                 --------      --------     --------
        Total income taxes       $  2,331      $ 41,651     $ 18,180
                                 ========      ========     ========
</TABLE>


                                      F-13
<PAGE>

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions
of current and non-current deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at
December 31, 2000 and 1999 are presented below (in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    2000         1999
                                                  --------     --------
<S>                                               <C>          <C>
        Deferred tax assets:
            Retail store closure reserves         $  1,128     $    269
            Deferred lease incentives                1,991        1,718
            Rent expense                             2,114        2,161
            Uniform capitalization adjustment        3,008        2,194
            State income taxes                         367        1,471
            Bad debt and other reserves              4,810        2,904
            Severance reserve                           --        1,378
            Unrealized loss on investments           2,269           --
            Other                                    6,640        2,602
                                                  --------     --------
               Total deferred assets                22,327       14,697
        Deferred tax liabilities                     1,725        9,640
                                                  --------     --------
        Net deferred tax assets                   $ 20,602     $  5,057
                                                  ========     ========
</TABLE>

Included above at December 31, 2000 and 1999 are $14.5 million and $9.6 million
for current deferred tax assets, respectively, and $6.1 million non-current
deferred tax assets, included in other assets, and $4.5 million non-current
deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Prepaid income taxes of $9.1 million and $3.0 million at December 31, 2000 and
1999, respectively, arise from the overpayment of estimated income taxes. The
Company filed a federal quick tax refund and received an $8.0 million refund in
February 2001.

Based on the historical earnings of the Company, management believes it is more
likely than not that the results of operations will generate sufficient taxable
earnings to realize net deferred tax assets.

(9)     RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

The Company is engaged in various transactions with entities affiliated with
trusts for the respective benefit of Maurice, Paul and Armand Marciano (the
"Marciano Trusts").

LICENSE AGREEMENTS AND LICENSEE TRANSACTIONS

On September 28, 1990, the Company entered into a license agreement with Charles
David of California ("Charles David"). Charles David is controlled by the
father-in-law of Maurice Marciano. The Marciano Trusts and Nathalie Marciano
(the spouse of Maurice Marciano) together own 50% of Charles David, and the
remaining 50% is owned by the father-in-law of Maurice Marciano. The license
agreement grants Charles David the rights to manufacture worldwide and
distribute worldwide (except Japan and certain European countries) for men,
women and some children, leather and rubber footwear which bear the Guess
trademark. The license also includes related shoe care products and accessories.


                                      F-14
<PAGE>

Gross royalties earned by the Company under such license agreement for the
fiscal years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 were $2.1 million, $1.9
million and $1.4 million, respectively. Additionally, the Company purchased $8.7
million, $8.4 million and $6.1 million of products from Charles David for resale
in the Company's retail stores during the same periods.

In May 1997, the Company sold substantially all of the assets and liabilities of
Guess? Italia to Maco Apparel, S.p.a. ("Maco"). The effect of the net asset
disposal was immaterial to the Company's results of operations. In connection
with this sale, the Company also purchased a 10% ownership interest in Maco and
entered into an approximate 10-year license agreement with Maco granting it the
right to manufacture and distribute certain men's and women's jeanswear apparel,
which bear the Guess trademark, in certain parts of Europe. In addition to
royalty fees, the Company will also receive $14.1 million over a four-year
period in consideration of the grant of the license rights for men's and women's
jeanswear apparel. During 2000, 1999 and 1998 the Company recorded $2.8 million
in revenue in connection with the grant of such license rights. Additionally,
the Company also recorded $3.0 million, $3.2 million and $2.3 million in royalty
fees related to product sales in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Effective
March 1, 1998, the Company also entered into an approximate nine-year license
agreement with Maco granting it the right to manufacture and distribute kid's
jeanswear, which bear the Guess trademark, in certain parts of Europe. No
significant revenue was recorded related to the grant of this license
agreement.

On August 4, 1999, the Company completed its purchase of an additional 40% of
Guess? Canada whereby the Company's ownership has been increased to 60%. As
part of the transaction, the Company paid $2.0 million and will provide
long-term debt financing of up to $13.4 million to Guess Canada to expand its
Canadian retail operations of which $12.3 million was outstanding as of
December 31, 2000. The remaining funding is being provided on an as-needed
basis. The Company has an option to acquire the remaining 40% of Guess Canada
that becomes exercisable commencing December 31, 2001. The acquisition was
accounted for as a purchase and the results of Guess Canada are included in
the Company's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.
The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired
amounting to $1.1 million is allocated to goodwill and is being amortized
over 15 years. The operating results of Guess? Canada are immaterial to the
Company's consolidated financial statements.

LEASES

The Company leases manufacturing, warehouse and administrative facilities from
partnerships affiliated with the Marciano Trusts and certain of its affiliates.
There are two leases in effect at December 31, 2000, both of which expire in
July 2008. The total lease payments to these limited partnerships are currently
$237,000 per month. Additionally, the Company is also on a month to month lease
for another storage facility. Aggregate lease payments under leases in effect
for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 were $2.8 million,
$2.7 million, and $2.7 million, respectively.


                                      F-15
<PAGE>

(10)      COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

LEASES

The Company leases its showrooms and retail store locations under operating
lease agreements expiring on various dates through 2016. Some of these leases
require the Company to make periodic payments for property taxes and common area
operating expenses. Certain leases include rent abatements and scheduled rent
escalations, for which the effects are being amortized and recorded over the
lease term. The Company also leases some of its equipment under operating lease
agreements expiring at various dates through 2003.

Future minimum rental payments under non-cancelable operating leases at December
31, 2000 are as follows:

Year ending December 31, (in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   Non
                                  Related     Related
                                  Parties     Parties       Total
                                 --------     --------     --------
<S>                              <C>          <C>          <C>
        2001                     $ 45,088     $  2,839     $ 47,927
        2002                       46,004        2,839       48,843
        2003                       44,991        2,839       47,830
        2004                       42,058        2,839       44,897
        2005                       37,542        2,839       40,381
        Thereafter                124,729        7,331      132,060
                                 --------     --------     --------
                                 $340,412     $ 21,526     $361,938
                                 ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>

Rental expense for all operating leases during the years ended December 31,
2000, 1999, and 1998 aggregated $36.1 million, $34.9 million, and $27.1 million,
respectively.

INCENTIVE BONUSES

Certain officers and key employees of the Company are entitled to incentive
bonuses, primarily based on the Company's profits.

LITIGATION

On approximately January 15, 1999, UNITE filed an unfair labor practice charge
against us, alleging that attorney Dennis Hershewe violated Section 8(a)(1) of
the National Labor Relations Act ("the Act") by questioning our employee Maria
Perez about her union activities at the deposition he conducted in her workers'
compensation case. Mr. Hershewe represents Fireman's Fund Insurance Company, our
workers' compensation insurance carrier. GUESS? investigated the charge and
responded to it on March 10, 1999. The NLRB issued a complaint on part of the
charge on October 14, 1999, and we filed an answer on October 21, 1999. On July
6, 2000, the complaint was dismissed in its entirety. The NLRB appealed the
decision and both sides submitted briefs in September of 2000. We are awaiting a
decision on the appeal.

On May 21, 1999, we filed a demand for arbitration against Pour le Bebe, Inc.
and Pour la Maison, Inc. (collectively, "PLB") seeking damages and injunctive
relief in connection with four written license agreements between the parties.
We alleged that PLB defaulted under the license agreements, that the license
agreements properly were terminated and that PLB breached the license
agreements. On July 19, 1999, PLB filed a counterdemand for arbitration against
us. PLB sought damages and injunctive relief against us alleging breach of
contract, violation of the California Franchise Relations Act, interference with
prospective economic advantage, unlawful business practices, statutory unfair
competition and fraud. The arbitration was conducted before the American
Arbitration Association pursuant to arbitration clauses in the license
agreements.


                                      F-16
<PAGE>

On June 9, 2000, the arbitrators issued a final award in our favor and
rejected each of PLB's counterclaims. The amount of this award was
$7,659,677. Thereafter, the Company filed a petition to confirm the
arbitration award and PLB filed a petition to vacate the award. On September
29, 2000, the court confirmed the final award and denied PLB's petition to
vacate. On October 23, 2000, the court entered judgment confirming the final
arbitration award and the case has been resolved. Because of the uncertainty
of the ultimate realization of the award, no recognition has been given to it
in our consolidated financial statements.

On June 9, 1999, we commenced a lawsuit in the Los Angeles County Superior Court
against Kyle Kirkland, Kirkland Messina LLC, and CKM Securities (collectively
"Kirkland") for tortious interference, unfair competition, fraud and related
claims. This action arises out of alleged misrepresentations and omissions of
material fact made by Kirkland in connection with the operations and financial
performance of PLB. On March 29, 2000, the California Court of Appeal determined
that the action will proceed in court. Kirkland's petition for review to the
California Supreme Court was denied on July 12, 2000. No trial date has been
set.

On March 28, 2000 a complaint was filed against us in San Diego County Superior
Court entitled Snodgrass v. Guess?, Inc. and GUESS? Retail, Inc. The complaint
purports to be a class action filed on behalf of current and former store
management employees in California. Plaintiffs seek overtime wages and a
preliminary and permanent injunction. The parties have stipulated that a limited
class composed only of visual co-managers and co-managers should be certified.
The Court certified this limited class on March 16, 2001. The trial date has
been set for November 9, 2001.

On May 4, 2000, a complaint was filed against the Company and Mr. Paul Marciano
in the Los Angeles Superior Court - Michel Benasra v. Paul Marciano and Guess?,
Inc. The complaint grows out of the arbitration between the Company and PLB,
discussed above. The plaintiff, the President of PLB, alleges that defendants
made defamatory statements about him during the arbitration. Plaintiff seeks
general damages of $50,000,000 and unspecified punitive damages. Defendants
moved to compel arbitration of this matter, or alternatively, to strike the
action under the state's anti-SLAPP (Strategic Litigation Against Public
Participation) statute. The motion to compel arbitration was denied and the
decision has been appealed. Pending resolution on appeal, this matter has been
stayed. No trial date has been set.

On January 30, 2001, Guess?, Inc. Maurice Marciano, Armand Marciano, Paul
Marciano, and Brian Fleming were named as defendants in a securities class
action entitled David Osher v. Guess?, Inc., et al., filed in the United
States District Court for the Central District of California. Seven
additional class actions have been filed in the Central District, naming the
same defendants: Robert M. Nuckols v. Guess?, Inc. et al., Brett Dreyfuss v.
Guess?, Inc. et al., both filed February 1, 2001; Jerry Sloan v. Guess?,
Inc., et al., filed February 6, 2001; Jerry Byrd v. Guess?, Inc., et al;
filed February 13, 2001; Patrick and Kristine Liska v. Guess?, Inc., et al,
filed February 14, 2001; Darrin Wegman v. Guess?, Inc., et al., filed
February 22, 2001; and Rosie Gindie v. Guess?, Inc., et al., filed February
22, 2001. All eight complaints purport to state claims under Section 10(b)
and 20(a) and Rule 10b-5 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and allege
that defendants made materially false and misleading statements relating to
the Company's inventory and financial condition during the class period. In
Osher, Nuckols, Byrd, Wegman and Sloan, the class period is February 14, 2000
through January 26, 2001; in Dreyfuss, Liska and Gindie the class period is
February 14, 2000 through November 9, 2000. We are awaiting Court approval of
a stipulation to extend our time to respond until 45 days after a lead
plaintiff has been appointed and has filed a consolidated amended complaint.

On March 15, 2001, a complaint was filed by Susan Goldman, derivatively on
behalf of nominal defendant Guess?, Inc. against Bryan Isaacs, Alice Kane,
Robert Davis, Armand Marciano, Paul Marciano, Maurice Marciano, Howard Socol and
Guess?, Inc. in the Court of Chancery for the State of Delaware. The complaint
alleges misappropriation of corporate information, insider trading and other
purported breaches of fiduciary duty by the Company and its Board of Directors.
Our response is due April 10, 2001.

                                      F-17
<PAGE>

We cannot predict the outcome of these matters. We believe the outcome of one or
more of the above cases could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations or financial condition. Most major corporations, particularly those
operating retail businesses, become involved from time to time in a variety of
employment-related claims and other matters incidental to their business in
addition to those described above. In the opinion of our management, the
resolution of any of these pending incidental matters is not expected to have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.

(11)     SAVINGS PLAN

The Company established the Guess?, Inc. Savings Plan (the "Savings Plan") under
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Savings Plan, employees
("associates") may contribute up to 15% of their compensation per year subject
to the elective limits as defined by IRS guidelines and the Company may make
matching contributions in amounts not to exceed 1.5% of the associates' annual
compensation. The Company's contributions to the Savings Plan for the year
ended December 31, 2000, amounted to $0.4 million, and was $0.3 million for
each of the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998.


                                      F-18
<PAGE>

(12)     QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

The following is a summary of the unaudited quarterly financial information
for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 (in thousands, except per
share data):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   First        Second         Third        Fourth
                                  Quarter       Quarter       Quarter       Quarter
                                 ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------
<S>                              <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Year ended December 31, 2000
- ----------------------------
Net revenue                      $ 188,844     $ 177,681     $ 216,363     $ 196,329
Gross profit                        79,146        69,379        77,157        57,931
Net earnings (loss)                 14,408         6,811         8,363       (13,089)
Earnings (loss) per share:
     Basic                       $    0.33     $    0.16     $    0.19     $   (0.30)
     Diluted                     $    0.33     $    0.16     $    0.19     $   (0.30)

</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                   First        Second         Third        Fourth
                                  Quarter       Quarter       Quarter       Quarter
                                 ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------
<S>                              <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Year ended December 31, 1999
- ----------------------------
Net revenue                      $ 129,052     $ 119,557     $ 155,547     $ 195,494
Gross profit                        54,028        55,035        65,261        93,666
Net earnings                        11,486         7,017        14,235        19,162
Earnings per share:
     Basic                       $    0.27     $    0.16     $    0.33     $    0.45
     Diluted                     $    0.27     $    0.16     $    0.33     $    0.44
</TABLE>

The quarterly information presented herein for the quarters ended April 1,
July 1, and September 30, 2000, presents information as amended in the Forms
10-Q/A to be filed on April 2, 2001.

During the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company recorded special charges of $15.6
million principally related to $5.7 million of inventory write-downs to value
its inventory at the lower of cost or market; $4.5 million of restructuring
charges related to underperforming stores that the Company plans to close and
for new stores that the Company has decided not to open; $4.1 million to
write-down permanently impaired assets, including fixed assets related to
unprofitable stores and an investment in an internet company; and $1.3 million
of other charges. The inventory provisions have been included in cost of sales.

During the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company enhanced its ability to estimate
reserves through improved processes and more current and accurate data. As a
result, the Company revised its estimate of certain reserves. This resulted in a
reduction of cost of sales of $2.3 million. During the second quarter of 1999,
in accordance with the requirements of EITF 94-3, "Liability Recognition for
Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity
(including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring"), the Company recorded a
$3.2 million charge for future severance costs related to the relocation of
distribution operations to Louisville. In the third quarter of 1999, the Company
realized a non-recurring pretax gain of $3.8 million on the disposition of
property and equipment.

(13)     SEGMENT INFORMATION

In accordance with the requirements of SFAS 131, "Disclosures about Segments of
and Enterprise and Related Information," the Company's reportable business
segments and respective accounting policies of the segments are the same as
those described in Note 1. Management evaluates segment performance based
primarily on revenue and earnings from operations. Interest income and expense
is evaluated on a consolidated basis and not allocated to the Company's business
segments.


                                      F-19
<PAGE>

Segment information is summarized as follows for the years ended December 31,
2000, 1999 and 1998 (in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               Year ended December 31,
                                               -----------------------
                                          2000         1999         1998
                                        --------     --------     --------
<S>                                     <C>          <C>          <C>
          Net revenue:
            Retail operations           $392,539     $299,384     $222,624
            Wholesale operations         348,873      260,628      212,504
            Licensing operations          37,805       39,638       36,803
                                        --------     --------     --------
                                        $779,217     $599,650     $471,931
                                        ========     ========     ========

          Earnings from operations:
            Retail operations           $  3,372     $ 37,072     $ 19,943
            Wholesale operations           9,170       25,101        7,971
            Licensing operations          30,807       31,603       29,132
                                        --------     --------     --------

                                        $ 43,349     $ 93,776     $ 57,046
                                        ========     ========     ========

          Capital expenditures:
            Retail operations           $ 57,336     $ 26,486     $  5,170
            Wholesale operations          21,798       35,471        8,136
            Licensing operations              --           --           --
                                        --------     --------     --------
                                        $ 79,134     $ 61,957     $ 13,306
                                        ========     ========     ========

          Total assets
            Retail operations           $183,255     $114,152     $ 93,140
            Wholesale operations         229,446      245,162      159,069
            Licensing operations           6,982        9,722       11,563
                                        --------     --------     --------
                                        $419,683     $369,036     $263,772
                                        ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>


The table below presents information related to geographic areas in which the
Company operated during 2000, 1999 and 1998 (in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   Year ended December 31,
                                   -----------------------
                                2000         1999         1998
                              --------     --------     --------
<S>                           <C>          <C>          <C>
          Net revenue:
            United States     $680,341     $548,179     $434,207
            Asia                23,303       13,279       13,859
            Europe              18,764       13,464       10,600
            Canada              47,339       12,073        1,644
            South America        6,403        3,973        5,066
            Mexico               1,895        3,337        2,406
            Other                1,172        5,345        4,149
                              --------     --------     --------
                              $779,217     $599,650     $471,931
                              --------     --------     --------
</TABLE>


                                      F-20
<PAGE>

(14)     STOCK OPTION PLAN AND NON-VESTED STOCK

On July 30, 1996, the Board of Directors adopted the Guess?, Inc. 1996
Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan pursuant to which the Board of
Directors may grant stock options to non-employee directors. This plan
authorizes grants of options to purchase up to 500,000 authorized but unissued
shares of Common Stock. At December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, there were 147,611,
109,082 and 70,451 options issued under this plan, respectively. Stock options
are granted with an exercise price equal to the stock's fair market value at the
date of grant. Stock options have ten-year terms and vest and become fully
exercisable in increments of one-fourth of the shares granted on each
anniversary from the date of grant.

On July 30, 1996, the Board of Directors adopted the Guess?, Inc. 1996 Equity
Incentive Plan (the "Plan") pursuant to which the Board of Directors may grant
stock options to officers, key employees and consultants. The Plan authorizes
grants of options to purchase up to 4,500,000 authorized but unissued shares of
Common Stock. Stock options are granted with an exercise price equal to the
stock's fair market value at the date of grant. Stock options have ten-year
terms (five years in the case of an incentive stock option granted to a
ten-percent stockholder) and vest and become fully exercisable after varying
time periods from the date of grant based on length of service or specified
performance goals.

At December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, there were 1,883,056, 2,763,397 and
2,841,825 additional shares available for grant under the plan, respectively.
Using the Black Scholes option pricing model, the weighted-average per share
fair value of stock options granted during 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $10.09,
$12.46 and $4.24, respectively. The fair value for these options was estimated
at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
following weighted-average assumptions for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively:
risk-free interest rates of 5.35%, 6.51% and 4.87%; volatility factors of the
expected market price of the Company's common stock of 80%, 65% and 63%; no
expected dividend yield; and a weighted-average expected life of the option of
four years.

The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the
fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions and are fully
transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the input of highly
subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility. Because
options under the Company's stock option plan have characteristics significantly
different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective
input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management's
opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single
measure of the fair value of the options under the Company's stock option plan.

The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 in accounting for its Plan and,
accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for its stock options in
the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Had the Company determined
compensation based on the fair value at the grant date for its stock options
under SFAS No. 123 ("SFAS 123"), the Company's pro forma net earnings and net
earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 would
have been the pro forma amounts indicated below (in thousands, except per share
data):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      2000           1999           1998
                                                   ----------     ----------     ----------
<S>                                                <C>            <C>            <C>
        Pro forma net earnings                     $   14,279     $   51,300     $   24,574
        Pro forma earnings per share - basic       $     0.33     $     1.19     $     0.57
        Pro forma earnings per share - diluted     $     0.33     $     1.18     $     0.57
</TABLE>


In December 2000, the Company granted 205,680 shares of non-vested Common Stock
to a key employee which vest through January 2004. Upon granting of the stock,
unearned compensation equivalent to the market value of the stock at the date of
issuance ($4.63 per share) was charged to stockholders' equity and will be
amortized to operations over four years.


                                      F-21
<PAGE>

Stock option activity during the period indicated is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              Number of    Weighted-Average
                                                Share       Exercise Price
                                             -----------   ---------------
<S>                                           <C>            <C>
Balance at December 31, 1997                  1,291,355      $    11.05
    Granted                                   1,035,600            4.24
    Forfeited                                  (668,780)         (10.92)
                                             ----------      ----------

Balance at December 31, 1998                  1,658,175      $     6.86
    Granted                                     343,650           12.46
    Exercised                                  (373,090)          (8.56)
    Forfeited                                  (265,222)          (7.68)
                                             ----------      ----------

Balance at December 31, 1999                  1,363,513      $     7.64
    Granted                                   1,400,130           13.77
    Exercised                                  (250,976)          (6.69)
    Forfeited                                  (519,789)         (12.96)
                                             ----------      ----------

Balance of December 31, 2000                  1,992,878      $    10.68
                                             ==========      ==========
</TABLE>

At December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, the weighted-average exercise price was
$10.68, $7.64 and $6.86, respectively, and the weighted-average remaining
contractual lives of outstanding options were 8.74, 8.53 and 9.0 years,
respectively.

The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding and
exercisable at December 31, 2000.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          Options Outstanding                             Options Exercisable
                        -----------------------------------------------------     ----------------------------------
                                                 Weighted           Weighted                                Weighted
                             Number               Average            Average            Number               Average
Range of Exercise          Outstanding           Remaining          Exercise        Exercisable at          Exercise
      Price             December 31, 2000    Contractual life         Price       December 31, 2000          Price
 ---------------        -----------------     --------------       ----------     -----------------        ---------
<S>                     <C>                   <C>                  <C>            <C>                      <C>
 $ 0.01 to  $5.50          1,051,536            8.51 years           $3.56             137,626               $ 4.20
 $ 7.06 to $19.38             71,325            7.66 years            8.38              46,450                 8.77
 $10.50 to $12.50            265,642            7.22 years           11.08             202,442                10.90
 $16.38 to $18.31            250,000            9.28 year            17.74              20,378                16.83
 $21.06 to $27.31            354,375            9.04 year            26.99              77,800                26.93
                           ---------            ----------          ------             -------               ------
                           1,992,878            8.74 years          $10.68             484,696               $11.62
                           =========                                ======             =======
</TABLE>

At December 31, 2000 and 1999, the number of options exercisable for each year
was 484,696 and 338,284, respectively. The weighted-average exercise price of
those options was $11.62 and $8.14, respectively.


                                      F-22
<PAGE>

(15) SEVERANCE (RECOVERY) RELATED TO DISTRIBUTION FACILITY RELOCATION

In accordance with the requirements of EITF 94-3, "Liability for Certain
Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including
Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)," during 1999, the Company
recorded a $3.2 million charge for future severance costs related to the
relocation of its distribution operations from Los Angeles, California to
Louisville, Kentucky. The Company originally expected to terminate 460
employees. As a result of attrition, relocating and redeploying 228
employees, the Company recorded a $1.5 million recovery during 2000.

(16)  RESTRUCTURING AND IMPAIRMENT CHARGES

In the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company recorded restructuring and
impairment charges of $8.6 million. Of these charges $2.4 million
(impairment) and $6.2 million (restructuring and impairment) were recorded to
the wholesale and retail segments, respectively. These charges consisted of
the following:

In connection with its ongoing review of its portfolio of marketable equity
securities, the Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge against earnings
from operations of $2.4 million to write down the cost basis of a certain
marketable equity security investment in an internet company as the decline was
determined to be other than temporary.

Additionally, in accordance with SFAS N0. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" an
impairment charge of $1.7 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2000
to write down the net book value of property and equipment related to certain
stores. These assets became impaired as the Company's new kid's line had some
unprofitable stores that performed below expectation. Estimated future cash
flows related to these stores indicated that an impairment of the full value
had occurred.

In December 2000, Company management approved a plan to close certain
under-performing stores in 2001 and cease construction on certain stores that
the Company has decided not to open. Included in the Company's operating
results for the year ended December 31, 2000, are restructuring charges of
$4.5 million consisting of lease exit costs, rent paid and to be paid on idle
locations and construction costs of stores abandoned during construction.
This is inclusive of $0.8 million of asset impairments for under-performing
stores that the Company plans to close in 2001. Estimated future cash flows
related to these stores indicated that an impairment of the full value had
occured. As of December 31, 2000, a liability recorded in accordance with the
requirements of EITF 94-3, "Liability for Certain Employee Termination
Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs
Incurred in a Restructuring)" of $1.7 million remains, consisting primarily
of estimated rent to be paid on idle leased facilities and lease exit costs.
The Company anticipates paying the $1.7 million and the completion of these
activities during 2001.

                                      F-23
<PAGE>

                                   SCHEDULE II
                          GUESS?, INC. & SUBSIDIARIES
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999, AND 1998
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   Balance at    Charged to   Deductions    Balance at
                                    beginning     costs and       and          end
                                    of period     expenses    write-offs     of period
                                    ---------     --------    ----------     ---------
<S>                                 <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>
Description
- -----------
As of December 31, 2000
     Accounts receivable             $ 8,863    $  28,811     $ (21,863)     $15,811
     Royalties                         1,258          903        (1,320)         841

As of December 31, 1999
     Accounts receivable             $ 7,837    $   1,398     $   (372)      $ 8,863
     Royalties                         3,667        1,657       (4,066)        1,258

As of December 31, 1998
     Accounts receivable             $11,196    $   8,542     $(11,901)      $ 7,837
     Royalties                            --        3,667           --         3,667
</TABLE>




                                      F-24
<PAGE>

                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Los Angeles, State of
California, on April 2, 2001.

                                      GUESS?, INC.

                                      By:      /s/ Maurice Marciano
                                               --------------------
                                                   Maurice Marciano
                                          CO-CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, CO-CHIEF
                                            EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND DIRECTOR

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1934, this report has been
signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.

<TABLE>
<S>                                 <C>                                                    <C>

/s/ Maurice Marciano                Co-Chairman of the Board, Co-Chief                     April 2, 2001
- --------------------                  Executive Officer and Director
Maurice Marciano                      (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ Paul Marciano                   Co-Chairman of the Board, Co-Chief                     April 2, 2001
- --------------------                  Executive Officer and Director
Paul Marciano

/s/ Armand Marciano                 Senior Executive Vice President,                       April 2, 2001
- --------------------                  Assistant Secretary and Director
Armand Marciano

/s/ Carlos Alberini                 President, Chief Operating Officer                     April 2, 2001
- --------------------                  and Director
Carlos Alberini                       (Principal Financial Officer)

/s/ Robert Davis                    Director                                               April 2, 2001
- --------------------
Robert Davis

/s/ Alice Kane                      Director                                               April 2, 2001
- --------------------
Alice Kane

/s/ Howard Socol                    Director                                               April 2, 2001
- --------------------
Howard Socol

/s/ Bryan Isaacs                    Director                                               April 2, 2001
- --------------------
Bryan Isaacs
</TABLE>


<PAGE>

                                  Exhibit Index
                                  -------------
Exhibit
Number                                                 Description
- ---------  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
3.1.      Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant. (1)
3.2.      Bylaws of the Registrant. (1)
4.3.      Specimen stock certificate. (1)
10.1.     Amended and Restated Stockholders' Agreement. (2)
10.20.    Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of March 28,
          1997. (2)
10.22.    1996 Equity Incentive Plan. (1)
10.23.    1996 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan. (1)
10.24.    Annual Incentive Plan. (1)
10.25.    Employment Agreement between the Registrant and Maurice Marciano. (2)
10.26.    Employment Agreement between the Registrant and Paul Marciano. (2)
10.27.    Employment Agreement between the Registrant and Armand Marciano. (2)
10.28.    Registration Rights Agreement among the Registrant and certain
          stockholders of the Registrant. (2)
10.29.    Indemnification Agreement among the Registrant and certain
          stockholders of the Registrant. (2)
10.30.    Indemnification Agreements between the Registrant and certain
          executives and directors. (2)
10.31.    First Amendment to Amended and Restated Shareholders' Agreement.(3)
10.32.    First Amendment and Waiver to Amended and Restated Revolving Credit
          Agreement by and between the Registrant and BankBoston, NA, F/K/A The
          First National Bank of Boston, Sanwa Bank California and the Financial
          Institutions Party hereto. (4)
10.33.    Amended and Restated 1996 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan,
          as amended through March 3, 1997. (5)
18.0.     Letter regarding change in accounting principles. (5)
10.34.    Second Amendment and Consent to the Amended and Restated Revolving
          Credit Agreement by and between Guess?, Inc. And BankBoston,
          N.A.,F/K/A The First National Bank of Boston, Sanwa Bank California
          and the Financial Institutions Party Hereto. (6)
10.35.    Third Amendment and Consent to the Amended and Restated Revolving
          Credit Agreement by and between Guess?, Inc. And BankBoston, N.A.,
          F/K/A The First National Bank of Boston, Sanwa Bank California and the
          Financial Institutions Party Hereto. (6)
10.36     Amendment No. 1 to The Guess?, Inc. Amended and Restated 1996 Non-
          Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan (7)
10.37.    Employment Agreement dated July 6, 1998 between Guess?, Inc. and Brian
          L. Fleming. (7)
10.38.    Fourth Amendment and Consent to the Amended and Restated Revolving
          Credit Agreement by and between Guess?, Inc. And BankBoston, N.A.,
          F/K/A The First National Bank of Boston, Sanwa Bank California and the
          Financial Institutions Party Hereto. (8)
10.39.    Credit Agreement by and between Guess?, Inc., Sanwa Bank of
          California, and The Chase Manhattan Bank.
10.40.    Lease Agreement between Guess?, Inc. and Robert Pattillo Properties,
          Inc.
10.41.    Subscription Agreement between Freemark Entertainment Corporation and
          Guess?, Inc.
*10.42.   Employment Agreement between the Registrant and Carlos Alberini
*10.43.   First Amendment to Credit Agreement among the Registrant, the Lenders
          and the Chase Manhattan Bank.
*21.1.    List of Subsidiaries.
*23.1     Independent Accountants' Consent

- ----------------
* Filed herewith

(b)       Financial Statement Schedule: Description Schedule II Valuation and
          Qualifying Accounts
- ---------------

(1)       Incorporated by reference from the Registration Statement on Form S-1
(Registration No. 333-4419) filed by the Company on June 24, 1996, as amended.
(2)       Incorporated by reference from the Company's Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996.

<PAGE>

(3)       Incorporated by reference from the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended March 30, 1997.
(4)       Incorporated by reference from the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended June 29, 1997.
(5)       Incorporated by reference from the Company's Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.
(6)       Incorporated by reference from the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 1998.
(7)       Incorporated by reference from the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended June 28, 1998.
(8)       Incorporated by reference from the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended September 27, 1998.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.42
<SEQUENCE>2
<FILENAME>a2043737zex-10_42.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.42
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

EXHIBIT NO. 10.42.

                              EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

         THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("AGREEMENT") is entered into by and between
Carlos Alberini (the "EXECUTIVE") and GUESS ?, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
"COMPANY") on November 8, 2000 and shall be effective on the date that is the
first day of the Executive's employment with the Company (the "EFFECTIVE DATE").

         WHEREAS, the Company desires to provide for the service and employment
of the Executive with the Company and the Executive wishes to perform services
for the Company, all in accordance with the terms and conditions provided
herein.

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements hereinafter
set forth, the Executive and the Company hereby agree as follows:

         Section 1. EMPLOYMENT. The Company does hereby employ the Executive and
the Executive does hereby accept employment as President and Chief Operating
Officer of the Company. In the Executive's capacity as President and Chief
Operating Officer of the Company, the Executive shall be responsible for product
sourcing, logistics, retail sales (including store operations and real estate),
MIS, finance, human resources, legal (excluding litigation management) and
wholesale sales for the Company and all employees performing these
responsibilities will report to the Executive in a manner consistent with the
Company's open door policy. The Executive shall render such services on the
terms set forth herein and shall report to the Board of Directors of the Company
(the "BOARD") and the chief executive officer(s) of the Company. In addition,
the Executive shall have such other executive and managerial powers and duties
with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries as may reasonably be assigned
to him by the Board, to the extent consistent with his position and status as
set forth above. The Executive agrees to devote all of his working time and
efforts to the business and affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries and
shall not engage in activities that interfere in any way with such performance;
PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that this Agreement shall not be interpreted to prohibit the
Executive, subject to the prior approval of the Board, from serving on the board
of directors of any corporation other than the Company.

         Section 2. TERM OF AGREEMENT. Subject to Section 6 hereof, the term
(the "TERM") of this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and shall
continue through December 31, 2003; PROVIDED that on December 31, 2003 and on
each succeeding December 31, the Term shall automatically be extended by an
additional year, unless the Executive or the Company shall give the other at
least one hundred and eighty (180) days' prior written notice to the contrary
("NONRENEWAL NOTICE").

         Section 3. BOARD MEMBERSHIP. During the Term, the Company shall cause
the Executive to be nominated to the Board and, if elected by the stockholders
of the Company, the Executive shall serve as a member of the Board for the term
for which he is so elected.

         Section 4. LOCATION. In connection with the Executive's employment by
the Company, the Executive shall be based at the headquarters of the Company in
Los Angeles, California, except for required travel for the Company's business.

         Section 5. COMPENSATION.

                           (a)      BASE SALARY. Effective as of the Effective
Date, the Company shall pay the Executive a base salary ("BASE SALARY") at an
initial rate of $650,000 per year, payable in accordance with the Company's
policies relating to salaried employees. Commencing on January 1, 2002, the
Executive's Base Salary may be increased by the Compensation Committee of the
Board (the "COMPENSATION COMMITTEE") in its sole discretion.


                                       1
<PAGE>

                           (b)      GUARANTEED BONUS. With respect to the
twelve-month period commencing on the Effective Date, the Company shall pay to
the Executive a guaranteed bonus in an amount equal to $260,000 (the "GUARANTEED
BONUS"), payable in two prorated installments to be paid on December 31, 2000
and on the last day of such twelve-month period; PROVIDED in each case that the
Executive has been continuously employed with the Company from the Effective
Date through the applicable installment payment date.

                           (c)      TARGET BONUS. Commencing with the first full
fiscal year of the Company ("FISCAL YEAR") following the Effective Date, the
Executive shall have the opportunity to earn a bonus ("TARGET BONUS") for each
Fiscal Year as recommended by the Compensation Committee in accordance with the
Company's Executive Incentive Program, as it may be amended or otherwise
modified from time to time (the "EIP"); PROVIDED in each case that the Executive
has been continuously employed with the Company from the Effective Date through
the last day of such Fiscal Year. The amount of each Target Bonus shall be set
by the Compensation Committee and shall be no less than seventy percent (70%) of
Base Salary if the applicable "target" performance goals (as defined in the EIP
for such period) are met and no more than one hundred and twenty percent (120%)
of Base Salary if the applicable "stretch" performance goals (as defined in the
EIP for such period) are met. The criteria for determining the amount of any
Target Bonus and the bases upon which such Target Bonus shall be payable shall
be no less favorable to the Executive than those used for other senior executive
officers of the Company, such criteria and bases to be determined in the sole
discretion of the Compensation Committee. The amount of any Target Bonus to be
paid to the Executive with respect to the first Fiscal Year following the
Effective Date shall be reduced by the amount of the second installment of the
Guaranteed Bonus payable to the Executive pursuant to clause (b) above, but in
no event shall such amount be reduced to less than zero.

                           (d)      RESTRICTED STOCK AND STOCK OPTIONS.

                                    (i)      RESTRICTED STOCK GRANT. Subject to
         the approval of the Compensation Committee, the Executive shall be
         granted, as of the Effective Date, 205,680 restricted shares of common
         stock of the Company (the "RESTRICTED STOCK"). As a condition to
         receiving such grant of the Restricted Stock, the Executive agrees to
         pay to the Company in cash the aggregate amount of the par value of the
         Restricted Stock. The Restricted Stock shall vest as follows: (A)
         105,680 shares shall vest on January 1, 2002, (B) 50,000 shares shall
         vest on January 1, 2003, and (C) 50,000 shares shall vest on January 1,
         2004; PROVIDED in each case that the Executive has been continuously
         employed with the Company from the Effective Date through the
         applicable vesting date. Except as otherwise provided herein, the
         Restricted Stock shall be subject to such terms and conditions as
         generally apply to restricted stock granted to other senior executive
         officers who participate in the Company's equity incentive plans as
         such terms and conditions are in effect on the Effective Date.

                                    (ii)     INITIAL OPTION GRANT. Subject to
         the approval of the Compensation Committee, the Executive shall be
         granted, as of the Effective Date, an option (the "INITIAL OPTION") to
         purchase 500,000 shares of common stock of the Company at a per share
         exercise price equal to the fair market value of the common stock of
         the Company on the Effective Date. The Initial Option shall vest and
         become exercisable in annual installments at the rate of 100,000 shares
         on each of December 31, 2001, December 31, 2002, December 31, 2003,
         December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005 (each such installment, an
         "INITIAL OPTION INSTALLMENT"); PROVIDED in each case that the Executive
         has been continuously employed with the Company from the Effective Date
         through the applicable vesting date. Except as otherwise provided
         herein, the Initial Option shall be subject to such terms and
         conditions, including provisions regarding post-termination
         exercisability, as generally apply to stock options granted to other
         senior executive officers who participate in the Company's equity
         incentive plans as such terms and conditions are in effect on the
         Effective Date.

                                    (iii)    ADDITIONAL OPTION GRANTS.
         Commencing on January 1, 2002, the Executive shall be eligible to
         receive additional grants of stock options (each, an "ADDITIONAL OPTION
         GRANT") to purchase shares of common stock of the Company as
         recommended by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion. Such
         Additional Option Grants, if any, shall be subject to the terms and
         conditions of any applicable


                                       2
<PAGE>

         stock option plans and programs of the Company and any other terms and
         conditions recommended by the Compensation Committee.

                           (e)      FRINGE BENEFITS. The Executive shall be
entitled to participate in any fringe, welfare and pension benefit and incentive
programs adopted from time to time by the Company for the benefit of, and which
generally apply to, its senior executive officers from time to time. The
Executive will receive four (4) weeks of paid vacation annually.

         Section 6. TERMINATION.

                           (a)      NOTICE OF TERMINATION.

                                    (i)      "NOTICE OF TERMINATION" shall mean
         a notice that shall indicate the specific termination provision in this
         Agreement relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the
         facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of
         the Executive's employment under the provisions so indicated.

                                    (ii)     Any purported termination of the
         Executive's employment by the Company or by the Executive shall be
         communicated by written Notice of Termination to the other party hereto
         in accordance with Section 13 hereof.

                           (b)      DATE OF TERMINATION. "DATE OF TERMINATION"
shall mean:

                                    (i)      if the Executive's employment is
         terminated because of death, the date of the Executive's death,

                                    (ii)     if the Executive's employment is
         terminated by the Company because of Disability, ten (10) days
         following the date on which the Notice of Termination is given, and

                                    (iii)    if the Executive's employment is
         terminated for any other reason, the date specified in the Notice of
         Termination, which shall not be a date prior to the date such Notice of
         Termination is given.

                           (c)      ACCRUED AND UNPAID BENEFITS. Following the
termination of the Executive's employment with the Company for any reason, the
Executive shall receive:

                                    (i)      any earned, but unpaid, Base
         Salary,

                                    (ii)     any earned, but unpaid, Guaranteed
         Bonus or Target Bonus for any Fiscal Year prior to the Fiscal Year in
         which the Date of Termination occurs,

                                    (iii)    the cash equivalent of any accrued,
         but unused, vacation,

                                    (iv)     any accrued employee benefits,
         subject to the terms of the applicable employee benefit plans, and

                                    (v)      all additional amounts that the
         Executive is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section 6 or Section
         7 hereof.

                           (d)      DEATH. In the event that the Executive's
employment hereunder is terminated by reason of the Executive's death, the
Company shall pay the amounts described in Section 6(c) above and all benefits
payable to the Executive, if any, under the terms of the Company's compensation
and benefit plans, programs or arrangements.


                                       3
<PAGE>

                           (e)      DISABILITY.

                                    (i)      "DISABILITY" shall have the same
         meaning assigned to the same or a similar term pursuant to any
         long-term disability plan or policy of the Company in effect as of the
         Date of Termination. If no such plan or policy is then in effect,
         "Disability" shall mean that as a result of the Executive's incapacity
         due to physical or mental illness, the Executive shall have been absent
         from the full-time performance of his duties with the Company for a
         period of six (6) consecutive months or for any two hundred and ten
         (210) days within any period of twelve (12) consecutive months and
         that, in either case, the Executive shall not have returned to the
         full-time performance of his duties within thirty (30) days following
         the Company's delivery of a Notice of Termination pursuant to this
         Section 6(e)(i).

                                    (ii)     The Executive's employment under
         this Agreement may be terminated by the Company or the Executive for
         Disability, subject to applicable law.

                                    (iii)    During any period prior to such
         termination during which the Executive is absent from the full-time
         performance of his duties with the Company due to Disability, the
         Company shall continue to pay the Executive his Base Salary at the rate
         in effect at the commencement of such period of Disability, and the
         vesting of the Initial Option, Restricted Stock and other stock awards,
         if any, shall continue.

                                    (iv)     Upon termination of the Executive's
         employment for Disability, the Company shall pay all benefits payable
         to the Executive, if any, under the terms of the Company's compensation
         and benefit plans, programs or arrangements.

                           (f)      TERMINATION FOR CAUSE. The Company may
terminate the Executive's employment under this Agreement for Cause (as defined
below) at any time.

                                    (i)      As used herein, termination for
         "CAUSE" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following, as
         determined by a two-thirds majority of the members of the Board
         (excluding the Executive from such vote and the denominator):

                                             (A)      the willful failure,
                  neglect or refusal by the Executive to perform his duties
                  hereunder or to follow the instructions of the Board;

                                             (B)      any willful or grossly
                  negligent act, or commission of a felony or misdemeanor, by
                  the Executive that a two-thirds majority of the members of the
                  Board (excluding the Executive from such vote and the
                  denominator) determines may have the effect of materially
                  injuring (monetarily or otherwise) the business or reputation
                  of the Company or its subsidiaries or their affiliates or any
                  division thereof;

                                             (C)      the conviction of the
                  Executive of (or the pleading by Executive of guilty or NOLO
                  CONTENDRE to) any misdemeanor involving fraud or embezzlement
                  or any felony;

                                             (D)      any misappropriation or
                  embezzlement of the property of the Company or its
                  subsidiaries or their affiliates (whether or not a misdemeanor
                  or felony); and

                                             (E)      a material breach by the
                  Executive of any covenant in this Agreement.

                                    (ii)     The Company shall notify the
         Executive of any event or circumstance described in subsection (i)
         above, and, if curable, the Executive shall have thirty (30) days
         following such notice within which to cure such event or circumstance.
         If such event or circumstance is not cured within such period


                                       4
<PAGE>

         or is not curable, the Company may terminate the Executive for Cause at
         any time following the end of such period or, if such event or
         circumstance is not curable, at any time after such notice.

                                    (iii)    In the event of termination for
         Cause, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligation by the
         Company, except (A) for payment of the amounts described in Section
         6(c) above, and (B) as otherwise may be provided under the terms of any
         equity incentive award outstanding on the Date of Termination.

                           (g)      TERMINATION BY THE EXECUTIVE.

                                    (i)      FOR GOOD REASON. The Executive may
         terminate his employment hereunder for Good Reason (as defined below).

                                    (ii)     WITHOUT GOOD REASON. Except as
         provided in clause (iii) below, the Executive may terminate his
         employment hereunder voluntarily without Good Reason upon at least six
         (6) months' prior notice to the Company.

                                    (iii)    FOLLOWING RECEIPT OF NONRENEWAL
         NOTICE FROM THE COMPANY. In the event that the Executive receives a
         Nonrenewal Notice from the Company, the Executive may terminate his
         employment with the Company upon thirty (30) days' prior written notice
         to the Company; PROVIDED that such Notice of Termination is received by
         the Company no later than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of
         the Term.

                                    (iv)     "GOOD REASON".

                                             (A)      The Executive shall have
                  "GOOD REASON" to terminate his employment hereunder upon a
                  failure by the Company to substantially comply with any
                  material provision of this Agreement, without the Executive's
                  written consent, that has not been cured within thirty (30)
                  days after written notice of such noncompliance has been given
                  by the Executive to the Company.

                                             (B)      Failure by the Company to
                  substantially comply with any material provision of this
                  Agreement shall mean:

                                                      (1)      an action by the
                           Company resulting in a diminution of the Executive's
                           title or authority,

                                                      (2)      any reduction in
                           the Executive's Base Salary then in effect or the
                           failure to pay any other compensation described in
                           Section 5 hereof or Schedule 1 hereto that is due and
                           payable to the Executive,

                                                      (3)      the Executive
                           being required by the Company to be based at any
                           office or location outside the Los Angeles,
                           California metropolitan area, or

                                                      (4)      any failure by
                           the Company or any successor of the Company to comply
                           with and satisfy Section 18 hereof, including any
                           failure by any such successor to adopt and be bound
                           by this Agreement.

         Section 7. SEVERANCE.

                           (a)      PRIOR TO CHANGE IN CONTROL. If, prior to a
change in control of the Company as defined in the Company's 1996 Equity
Incentive Plan as in effect on the Effective Date ("CHANGE IN CONTROL"), the
Company terminates the Executive's employment with the Company for any reason
other than (i) the


                                       5
<PAGE>

Executive's death or Disability or (ii) for Cause, or if the Executive
terminates his employment with the Company for Good Reason, the Executive shall
enter into a consulting arrangement with the Company pursuant to which the
Executive shall provide consulting services to the Company for up to forty (40)
hours per month for a period of eighteen (18) months commencing on the Date of
Termination (the "CONSULTING PERIOD"). During the Consulting Period, the
Executive shall be entitled to the following:

                                    (i)      the Company shall pay to the
         Executive on an annualized basis the Executive's Base Salary then in
         effect, payable in accordance with the Company's policies relating to
         salaried employees;

                                    (ii)     any benefits to which the Executive
         would otherwise be entitled pursuant to Schedule 1 hereto with respect
         to the Relocation Loan (as defined in Schedule 1 hereto) as if the
         Executive remained in active employment with the Company during the
         Consulting Period;

                                    (iii)    on the Date of Termination, the
         Company shall pay to the Executive an amount equal to the portion of
         any Guaranteed Bonus for the expired portion of the Fiscal Year in
         which the Date of Termination occurs;

                                    (iv)     any portion of the Restricted Stock
         that is not vested on the Date of Termination shall vest on such date;

                                    (v)      any portion of the Initial Option
         that is not vested on the Date of Termination shall vest and be
         exercisable during the Consulting Period at the rate of 8,334 shares
         per month commencing with the month following the vesting date of the
         Initial Option pursuant to Section 5(d)(ii) hereof that immediately
         preceded the Date of Termination and continuing through the month in
         which the Consulting Period ends as if the Executive remained in active
         employment with the Company during the Consulting Period;1 and

                                    (vi)     any portion of any Additional Grant
         that is not vested on the Date of Termination shall vest and be
         exercisable during the Consulting Period on a monthly basis based on
         the number of months remaining in the original vesting schedule as of
         the Date of Termination for such Additional Grant as if the Executive
         remained in active employment with the Company during the Consulting
         Period.

                           (b)      FOLLOWING CHANGE IN CONTROL. If, following a
Change in Control and prior to the expiration of the Term, the Company
terminates the Executive's employment with the Company for any reason other than
(i) the Executive's death or Disability or (ii) for Cause, or if the Executive
terminates his employment with the Company for Good Reason, the Executive shall
be entitled to the following:

                                    (i)      the Company shall pay to the
         Executive a lump sum in an amount equal to two hundred percent (200%)
         of:

- ----------
(1)This provision is intended to work as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
DATE OF TERMINATION        LAST VESTING DATE         TOTAL MONTHS TO VEST       TOTAL SHARES VESTED
- -------------------        -----------------         --------------------       -------------------
<S>                        <C>                       <C>                        <C>
1/15/03                    12/31/02                  1 + 18 months              19 x 8,334 = 158,346

6/15/03                    12/31/02                  6 + 18 months              24 x 8,334 = 200,016

11/15/03                   12/31/02                  11 + 18 months             29 x 8,334 = 241,686
</TABLE>


                                       6
<PAGE>

                                             (A)      the Executive's Base
                  Salary then in effect, and

                                             (B)      the Target Bonus payable
                  to the Executive with respect to the Fiscal Year immediately
                  preceding the Date of Termination or the Target Bonus payable
                  to the Executive with respect to the Fiscal Year immediately
                  preceding the Change in Control, whichever is higher (for the
                  avoidance of doubt, the Target Bonus for the Fiscal Year
                  ending December 31, 2001 includes the portion of the
                  Guaranteed Bonus paid to the Executive during such Fiscal
                  Year);

                                    (ii)     any benefits to which the Executive
         would otherwise be entitled pursuant to Schedule 1 hereto with respect
         to the Relocation Loan (as defined in Schedule 1 hereto) as if the
         Executive remained in active employment with the Company for a period
         of two (2) years commencing on the Date of Termination;

                                    (iii)    any portion of the Restricted Stock
         that is not vested on the date immediately prior to the Date of
         Termination shall immediately vest as of the Date of Termination;

                                    (iv)     any Initial Option Installment that
         has not vested immediately prior to the Date of Termination shall vest
         and be exercisable;

                                    (v)      any portion of any Additional Grant
         that has not vested immediately prior to the Date of Termination shall
         vest and be exercisable; and

                                    (vi)     if the aggregate of all payments or
         benefits made or provided to the Executive under this Agreement and
         under all other plans and programs of the Company (the "AGGREGATE
         PAYMENT") is determined to constitute a parachute payment, as such term
         is defined in Section 280G(b)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
         as amended (the "CODE"), the Company shall pay to the Executive, prior
         to the time any excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (the
         "EXCISE TAX") is payable with respect to such Aggregate Payment, an
         additional amount that, after the imposition of all income, excise and
         other taxes thereon, is equal to the Excise Tax on the Aggregate
         Payment. The determination of whether the Aggregate Payment constitutes
         a Parachute Payment and, if so, the amount to be paid to the Executive
         and the time of payment pursuant to this Section 7(b)(v) shall be made
         by the accounting firm that was, immediately prior to the Change in
         Control, the Company's independent auditor.

                           (c)      NONRENEWAL BY THE COMPANY. Upon the
expiration of the Term following the Executive's receipt of a Nonrenewal Notice
from the Company (PROVIDED that the Executive's last day of employment with
Company is the last day of the Term) or on the date on which the Executive
voluntarily terminates his employment with the Company pursuant to Section
6(g)(iii) hereof, if earlier, the Executive shall enter into a consulting
arrangement with the Company pursuant to which the Executive shall provide
consulting services to the Company pursuant to the same terms and conditions as
set forth in Section 7(a) hereof except that the "Consulting Period" shall be
twelve (12) months rather than eighteen (18) months.

                           (d)      MITIGATION. As a condition to receiving any
payments or benefits pursuant to Section 7(c) hereof, the Executive agrees to
mitigate the amount of any payment or benefit provided for pursuant to such
Section 7(c), including, without limitation, by seeking comparable employment,
and any amounts earned by the Executive from any employment or any consulting
arrangement during the Consulting Period may be deducted from the payments
described in Section 7(c) hereof. The obligation to mitigate and the deduction
from payment described in this Section 7(d) does not apply to payments and
benefits described in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) hereof.

                           (e)      RELEASE OF EMPLOYMENT CLAIMS. The Executive
agrees, as a condition to receipt of the payments and benefits provided for in
this Section 7, that he will execute a release agreement, in a form satisfactory
to the Company, releasing any and all claims arising out of the Executive's
employment (other than enforcement of this Agreement and the Executive's rights
under any of the Company's incentive compensation and employee benefit plans and
programs to which he is entitled under this Agreement).


                                       7
<PAGE>

         Section 8. CONFIDENTIALITY; NON-COMPETITION.

                           (a)      CONFIDENTIALITY. "CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION"
shall mean non-public information about the Company and its subsidiaries or
their affiliates, and their respective clients and customers that is not
disclosed by the Company or its subsidiaries for financial reporting purposes
and that was learned by the Executive in the course of his employment with the
Company, including, without limitation, any proprietary knowledge, trade
secrets, data, formulae, information and client and customer lists and all
papers, resumes and records (including computer records) of the documents
containing such Confidential Information. Confidential Information does not
include information regarding the Executive's own compensation and benefits.

                                    (i)      The Executive acknowledges that in
         his employment with the Company, he will occupy a position of trust and
         confidence. The Executive shall not, except as may be required to
         perform his duties hereunder or as required by applicable law, without
         limitation in time or until such information shall have become public
         other than by the Executive's unauthorized disclosure, disclose to
         others or use, whether directly or indirectly, any Confidential
         Information.

                                    (ii)     The Executive acknowledges that all
         Confidential Information is specialized, unique in nature and of great
         value to the Company and its subsidiaries, and that such Confidential
         Information gives the Company and its subsidiaries a competitive
         advantage. The Executive agrees to deliver or return to the Company, at
         the Company's request at any time or upon termination or expiration of
         his employment or as soon thereafter as possible, all documents,
         computer tapes and disks, records, lists, data, drawings, prints, notes
         and written information (and all copies thereof) furnished by or on
         behalf of or for the benefit of the Company and its subsidiaries or
         their affiliates or prepared by the Executive during the term of his
         employment by the Company, but excluding documents relating to the
         Executive's own compensation and benefits.

                           (b)      NON-COMPETITION. During the Executive's
employment with the Company and during the Consulting Period, if any, the
Executive shall not, directly or indirectly, whether as owner, consultant,
employee, partner, venturer, agent, through stock ownership, investment of
capital, lending of money or property, rendering of services, or otherwise,
compete with the Company or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries in any
business in which any of them is engaged while the Executive is employed with
Company, including, without limitation, the design, manufacture and/or
distribution of men's, women's or children's sportswear or accessories (such
businesses are hereinafter referred to as the "BUSINESS"), or assist, become
interested in or be connected with any corporation, firm, partnership, joint
venture, sole proprietorship or other entity which so competes with the
Business. During the Consulting Period, if any, the restrictions imposed by this
Section 8(b) shall not apply to any business in which the Company or its
affiliates and subsidiaries were not engaged at the time of termination of the
Executive's employment hereunder or to any geographic area in which the Company
or its affiliates and subsidiaries were not engaged in the Business at the time
of termination.

                           (c)      NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS.
During the Executive's employment with the Company and during the Consulting
Period, if any (and, in the event of a termination by the Company for Cause or
by the Executive other than for Good Reason, for a period of twenty-four (24)
months following the Date of Termination), the Executive shall not, directly or
indirectly, influence or attempt to influence customers or suppliers of the
Company or any of its subsidiaries or their affiliates to divert their business
to any business, individual, partner, firm, corporation or other entity that is
then a direct competitor of the Company or its subsidiaries or their affiliates
(each such competitor, a "COMPETITOR OF THE COMPANY"); PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that
if the Executive is employed by customers or suppliers of the Company following
his termination of employment and such employment does not violate Section 8(b)
hereof, the normal execution of his duties in connection with such employment
shall not constitute a violation of this Section 8(c).

                           (d)      NON-SOLICITATION OF EMPLOYEES.


                                       8
<PAGE>

                                    (i)      The Executive recognizes that he
         will possess confidential information about other employees of the
         Company and its subsidiaries or their affiliates relating to their
         education, experience, skills, abilities, compensation and benefits,
         and interpersonal relationships with customers of the Company and its
         subsidiaries or their affiliates.

                                    (ii)     The Executive recognizes that the
         information he will possess about these other employees is not
         generally known, is of substantial value to the Company and its
         subsidiaries in developing their business and in securing and retaining
         customers, and will be acquired by him because of his business position
         with the Company and its subsidiaries.

                                    (iii)    The Executive agrees that, during
         the Executive's employment with the Company and during the Consulting
         Period, if any (and, in the event of a termination by the Company for
         Cause or by the Executive other than for Good Reason, for a period of
         twenty-four (24) months following the Date of Termination) he will not,
         directly or indirectly, solicit or recruit any employee of the Company
         or its subsidiaries or their affiliates for the purpose of being
         employed by him or by any Competitor of the Company on whose behalf he
         is acting as an agent, representative or employee and that he will not
         convey any such confidential information or trade secrets about other
         employees of the Company and its subsidiaries or their affiliates to
         any other person.

                           (e)      REMEDIES. In the event of a breach or
threatened breach of this Section 8, the Executive agrees that the Company shall
be entitled to apply for injunctive relief in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction to remedy any such breach or threatened breach, the Executive
acknowledging that damages would be inadequate and insufficient. Without
limiting the foregoing and in addition to whatever other rights and remedies the
Company may have at equity or in law, if the Executive breaches any of the
provisions contained in this Section 8, all benefits and payments payable
pursuant to Section 7 hereof shall cease and all outstanding stock options,
Restricted Stock or other stock awards shall be forfeited.

                           (f)      SURVIVAL OF PROVISIONS. The obligations
contained in this Section 8 shall, to the extent provided in this Section 8,
survive the termination or expiration of the Executive's employment with the
Company and, as applicable, shall be fully enforceable thereafter in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement. If it is determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction in any state that any restriction in this Section 8 is excessive in
duration or scope or is unreasonable or unenforceable under the laws of that
state, it is the intention of the parties that such restriction may be modified
or amended by the court to render it enforceable to the maximum extent permitted
by the law of that state.

         Section 9. NO VIOLATION OF THIRD-PARTY RIGHTS.

                           (a)      The Executive hereby represents, warrants
and covenants to the Company that the Executive:

                                    (i)      shall not, in the course of his
         employment or his consultancy with the Company, infringe upon or
         violate any proprietary rights of any third party (including, without
         limitation, any third party confidential relationships, patents,
         copyrights, mask works, trade secrets or other proprietary rights);

                                    (ii)     is not a party to any agreements
         with third parties that are not publicly available that prevent him
         from fulfilling the terms of employment and the obligations of this
         Agreement or which would be breached as a result of his execution of
         this Agreement; and

                                    (iii)    agrees to respect any and all valid
         obligations which he may now have to prior employers or to others
         relating to confidential information, inventions or discoveries which
         are the property of those prior employers or others, as the case may
         be.


                                       9
<PAGE>

                           (b)      The Executive agrees to indemnify and save
harmless the Company from any loss, claim, damage, cost or expense of any kind
(including, without limitation, attorney fees) to which the Company may be
subjected by virtue of a breach by the Executive of any of the foregoing
representations, warranties and covenants.

         Section 10. RELOCATION EXPENSES. The Executive shall be entitled to the
relocation benefits described in SCHEDULE 1 hereto.

         Section 11. REIMBURSEMENT FOR LEGAL FEES. The Company shall reimburse
the Executive for reasonable legal fees and expenses incurred by the Executive
in connection with the negotiation and preparation of this Agreement; PROVIDED
that the aggregate amount of such reimbursement shall not exceed $20,000 and the
Executive has furnished to the Company evidence satisfactory to the Company
relating to such legal fees and expenses.

         Section 12. WITHHOLDING; OFFSET.

                           (a)      The Company shall make such deductions and
withhold such amounts from each payment made to the Executive hereunder as may
be required from time to time by law, governmental regulation or order.

                           (b)      The Company shall have the right to offset
any amounts that are due and payable to the Company by the Executive upon or
after the Executive's termination of employment with the Company for any reason
from any amounts due to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement; PROVIDED,
HOWEVER, that the Company may not offset any amounts payable by the Executive to
the Company in connection with any breach of contract or breach of fiduciary
duty claim that has not been entered as a judgment.

         Section 13. NOTICES. All notices and other communications under this
Agreement shall be in writing and shall be given by hand, facsimile or
first-class mail, certified or registered with return receipt requested, and
shall be deemed to have been duly given three (3) days after mailing or
twenty-four (24) hours after transmission of a facsimile to the respective
persons named below:

<TABLE>
<S>                                                           <C>
                           (a)      IF TO THE COMPANY:        GUESS ?, Inc.
                                                              1444 South Alameda Street
                                                              Los Angeles, California  90021
                                                              Attention:  Maurice Marciano
                                                              Facsimile:  (213) 744-7840

                           (b)      IF TO THE EXECUTIVE:      Carlos Alberini
                                                              11 Boulder Trail
                                                              Chappaqua, New York  10514
</TABLE>

Either party may change such party's address for notices by notice duly given
pursuant hereto.

         Section 14. DISPUTE RESOLUTION; ATTORNEYS' FEES. The Company and the
Executive agree that any dispute arising as to the parties' rights and
obligations hereunder, other than with respect to Section 8 hereof, shall be
resolved by binding arbitration in accordance with the rules of the American
Arbitration Association then in effect. Each party shall have the right, in
addition to any other relief granted by such arbitrator (or by any court with
respect to relief granted with respect to Section 8 hereof), to reasonable
attorneys' fees based on a determination by the arbitrator (or, with respect to
Section 8 hereof, the court) of the extent to which each party has prevailed as
to the material issues raised in determination of the dispute.

         Section 15. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement and the legal relations thus
created between the parties hereto shall be governed by and construed under and
in accordance with the laws of the State of California, without regard to its
conflicts of law principles.


                                       10
<PAGE>

         Section 16. TERMINATION OF PRIOR AGREEMENTS. This Agreement terminates
and supersedes any and all prior agreements and understandings between the
parties with respect to the Executive's employment and compensation by the
Company.

         Section 17. WAIVER; MODIFICATION. Failure to insist upon strict
compliance with any of the terms, covenants or conditions hereof shall not be
deemed a waiver of such term, covenant or condition, nor shall any waiver or
relinquishment of, or failure to insist upon strict compliance with, any right
or power hereunder at any one or more times be deemed a waiver or relinquishment
of such right or power at any other time or times. This Agreement shall not be
modified in any respect except by a writing executed by each party hereto.

         Section 18. ASSIGNMENT; SUCCESSORS. This Agreement is personal in its
nature and neither of the parties hereto shall, without the consent of the
other, assign or transfer this Agreement or any rights or obligations hereunder;
PROVIDED that, in the event of the merger, consolidation, transfer or sale of
all or substantially all of the assets of the Company with or to any other
individual or entity or any similar event, this Agreement shall, subject to the
provisions hereof, be binding upon and inure to the benefit of such successor
and such successor shall discharge and perform all the promises, covenants,
duties and obligations of the Company hereunder.

         Section 19. SEVERABILITY. Except as provided in Section 8(f) hereof, in
the event that a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any portion of
this Agreement is in violation of any statute or public policy, only the
portions of this Agreement that violate such statute or public policy shall be
stricken. All portions of this Agreement that do not violate any statute or
public policy shall continue in full force and effect. Furthermore, any court
order striking any portion of this Agreement shall modify the stricken terms as
little as possible to give as much effect as possible to the intentions of the
parties under this Agreement.

         Section 20. HEADINGS. Section headings in this Agreement are included
herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this
Agreement for any other purpose.

         Section 21. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in
counterparts (including counterparts delivered by facsimile), each of which
shall be deemed an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute
one and the same instrument.

         Section 22. REPRESENTATION BY COUNSEL; INTERPRETATION. Each party
acknowledges that it has had the opportunity to be represented by counsel in
connection with this Agreement. Any rule of law or any legal decision that would
require interpretation of any claimed ambiguities in this Agreement against the
party that drafted it has no application and is expressly waived.

                  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to
be executed by its duly authorized officer and the Executive has hereunto signed
this Agreement on the date first above written.

                                        GUESS ?, INC.



                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        By:
                                        Title:


                                        CARLOS ALBERINI



                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Carlos Alberini


                                       11
<PAGE>

                                   SCHEDULE 1

                                RELOCATION POLICY

1.       REIMBURSEMENT FOR RELOCATION EXPENSES. The Company shall reimburse the
         Executive in accordance with the Company's relocation policy for the
         Executive's reasonable relocation-related costs and expenses; PROVIDED
         that the Executive has furnished to the Company evidence satisfactory
         to the Company relating to such costs and expenses.

2.       RELOCATION LOAN FOR PURCHASE OF PRIMARY RESIDENCE. Upon request by the
         Executive, the Company shall advance an aggregate amount of up to
         $1,000,000 to be used by the Executive solely for the purchase of a
         primary residence ("RESIDENCE") for the Executive in the Los Angeles,
         California metropolitan area (the total amount advanced hereinafter
         referred to as the "RELOCATION LOAN"). The Relocation Loan shall be
         evidenced by a separate agreement, the terms of which shall be
         consistent with this Paragraph 2.

         a.       The unpaid principal balance of the Relocation Loan shall
                  accrue interest at the fixed rate of seven percent (7%) per
                  annum (calculated using the actual daily principal balance
                  outstanding and on the basis of a 365-day or 366-day year);
                  PROVIDED that no interest shall accrue while the Executive is
                  continuously employed with the Company.

         b.       The Relocation Loan shall be secured by a first or second
                  mortgage on the Residence.

         c.       On each of the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth
                  anniversaries of the Effective Date (subject to the Executive
                  being continuously employed with the Company from the
                  Effective Date through each such anniversary date), an amount
                  equal to twenty-percent (20%) of the Relocation Loan shall be
                  deemed to have been repaid.

         d.       Upon termination of the Executive's employment with the
                  Company by the Executive for Good Reason, by the Company
                  without Cause or by the Executive pursuant to Section
                  6(g)(iii) of the Agreement, the Executive shall repay the
                  entire unpaid principal balance of the Relocation Loan (plus
                  interest accrued thereon from the Date of Termination) by the
                  earlier of (i) twelve (12) months following the Date of
                  Termination, and (ii) the date of the closing of the sale of
                  the Residence (directly from the escrow proceeds), unless the
                  Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, waives the
                  Executive's obligation to repay all or any portion of such
                  amount.

         e.       Upon termination of the Executive's employment with the
                  Company by the Company for Cause, the Executive shall repay
                  the entire unpaid principal balance of the Relocation Loan
                  (plus interest accrued thereon from the Date of Termination)
                  by the earlier of (i) six (6) months following the Date of
                  Termination, and (ii) the date of the closing of the sale of
                  the Residence (directly from the escrow proceeds).

         f.       Upon termination of the Executive's employment with the
                  Company for any other reason not described in clauses c. and
                  d. above, the Executive shall repay the entire unpaid
                  principal balance of the Relocation Loan (plus interest
                  accrued thereon from the Date of Termination) by the earlier
                  of (i) thirty (30) days following the Date of Termination, and
                  (ii) the date of the closing of the sale of the Residence
                  (directly from the escrow proceeds).

         g.       The Company shall have the right to offset any amounts due and
                  payable by the Executive to the Company with respect to the
                  Relocation Loan against any amounts then due to the Executive
                  pursuant to this Agreement.


                                       12
<PAGE>

- ------------------ COMPARISON OF FOOTNOTES ------------------

- -FOOTNOTE 1-

This provision is intended to work as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
DATE OF TERMINATION        LAST VESTING DATE         TOTAL MONTHS TO VEST       TOTAL SHARES VESTED
- -------------------        -----------------         --------------------       -------------------
<S>                        <C>                       <C>                        <C>
1/15/03                    12/31/02                  1 + 18 months              19 x 8,334 = 158,346

6/15/03                    12/31/02                  6 + 18 months              24 x 8,334 = 200,016

11/15/03                   12/31/02                  11 + 18 months             29 x 8,334 = 241,686
</TABLE>


                                       13
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.43
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>a2043737zex-10_43.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.43
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

EXHIBIT NO. 10.43

                                                                  EXECUTION COPY

                  FIRST AMENDMENT, dated as of March 27, 2001 (this
"AMENDMENT"), to the CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of December 3, 1999 (the "CREDIT
AGREEMENT"), among GUESS ?, INC. (the "BORROWER"), the several banks and other
financial institutions or entities from time to time parties to the Credit
Agreement (the "LENDERS"), the Co-Agent named therein and THE CHASE MANHATTAN
BANK, as Administrative Agent. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement shall be
used in this Amendment with their defined meanings unless otherwise defined
herein.

                              W I T N E S S E T H :
                              - - - - - - - - - -

                  WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested the Lenders to enter into
this Amendment on the terms and conditions set forth herein;

                  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and for other
good and valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

         I.       AMENDMENTS.

                  1.       Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended
to add the following definitions in the appropriate alphabetical order:

                  "BORROWING BASE CERTIFICATE": a certificate of a Responsible
Officer of the Borrower setting forth a calculation of the Liquidity Ratio in
form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.

                  "ELIGIBLE INVENTORY": any inventory owned by a Loan Party that
(a) is located in the United States, (b) constitutes finished goods and (c) is
subject to a first priority perfected Lien pursuant to the Guarantee and
Collateral Agreement.

                  "ELIGIBLE RECEIVABLES": any accounts receivable owing to a
Loan Party that (a) result from (i) the sale of inventory or (ii) the licensing
of Intellectual Property, in each case in the ordinary course of business, (b)
in the case of accounts receivable resulting from the sale of inventory, are
owing by a Person domiciled and organized in a jurisdiction within the United
States, (c) have not remained unpaid for 90 days or more from the invoice date
and (d) are subject to a first priority perfected Lien pursuant to the Guarantee
and Collateral Agreement.

                  "LIQUIDITY RATIO": the ratio of (a) the sum of (i) 100% of
Unencumbered Cash and Cash Equivalents, (ii) 85% of the outstanding balance of
Eligible Receivables (net of reserves), (iii) 50% of the value of Eligible
Inventory (valued at the lower of cost or market value, and determined net of
reserves for obsolescence) and (iv) 50% of the aggregate face amount of all then
outstanding undrawn Documentary Letters of Credit (PROVIDED, that the
percentages referred to in clauses (iii) and (iv) above shall be 60% at all
times on or prior to May 31, 2001) to (b) the Total Revolving Extensions of
Credit at such time.

                  "UNENCUMBERED CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS": any cash or Cash
Equivalents held by a Loan Party that (a) are held in an account located within
the United States and (b) are free and clear of any Lien (other than pursuant to
the Security Documents).

                  2.       The definition of "Basket Amount" contained in
Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by (a) changing the phrase
"$75,000,000 on the Closing Date" to the phrase "$25,000,000 on the First
Amendment Effective Date (as defined in the First Amendment to this Agreement)"
and (b) adding the following phrase and new sentence to the end of such
definition: ", in each case to the extent such expenditures are made on or after
the First Amendment Effective Date. It is understood that expenditures of the
type described in this definition made between the Closing Date and the First
Amendment Effective Date in accordance with this Agreement prior to giving
effect to the First Amendment to this Agreement shall be deemed to be permitted
expenditures and shall not count as utilization of the Basket Amount."

<PAGE>

                  3.       Section 6.2 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended
by changing each reference therein to clause (f) to a reference to clause (g)
and by adding a new clause (f) which shall read as follows:

                  "(f) no later than 10 days after the end of each calendar
month, a Borrowing Base Certificate setting forth a calculation of the Liquidity
Ratio as of the last day of such month;"

                  4.       Section 7.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended
and restated in its entirety as follows:

         "7.1     FINANCIAL CONDITION COVENANTS.

         (a)      CONSOLIDATED LEVERAGE RATIO. Permit the Consolidated Leverage
Ratio as at the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of
the Borrower to be greater than (i) 4.50 to 1.0 in the case of any such period
ending on or prior to the last day of the third fiscal quarter of fiscal year
2001 or (ii) 3.50 to 1.0 in the case of any such period ending thereafter.

         (b)      CONSOLIDATED FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO. Permit the
Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio for any period of four consecutive
fiscal quarters of the Borrower ending during any period set forth below to be
less than the ratio set forth below opposite such fiscal quarter:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       Consolidated Fixed Charge
                   Fiscal Quarter                                            Coverage Ratio
                   --------------                                            --------------
<S>                                                                    <C>
         Through and including the last day of the
         second fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2001                              0.50 to 1.0

         From and including the first day of the third fiscal quarter
         of fiscal year 2001 to and including the day before the
         last day of the fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2001     0.75 to 1.0

         From and including the last day of the fourth fiscal quarter
         of fiscal year 2001 and thereafter                            1.50 to 1.0
</TABLE>

         (c)      CONSOLIDATED NET WORTH. Permit Consolidated Net Worth at any
time to be less than $135,000,000.

         (d)      CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME. Permit Consolidated Net Income for
(i) the second fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2001 of the Borrower, (ii) the
third fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2001 of the Borrower or (iii) any period of
four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower ending thereafter, in each
case, to be less than $1.00.

         (e)      LIQUIDITY RATIO. Permit the Liquidity Ratio to be less than
1.0 to 1.0. It is understood that verification of compliance with this Section
7.1(e) shall only be required in connection with the delivery of Borrowing Base
Certificates pursuant to Section 6.2(f) and at any other time requested by the
Administrative Agent."

                  5.       Section 7.7 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended
by deleting the words "and $85,000,000 in any fiscal year thereafter" and
replacing them with the words ", $40,000,000 in fiscal year 2001 and $50,000,000
in any fiscal year thereafter".

                  6.       The Pricing Grid attached as Annex A to the Credit
Agreement is hereby replaced by the Pricing Grid attached as Annex A to this
Amendment.


         II.      WAIVER.

                           The Lenders hereby permanently waive any Event of
Default resulting from (a) any misrepresentation made pursuant to Section 4.1 in
respect of the Borrower's financial statements for the third quarter of its 1999
fiscal year prior to their restatement, (b) any misrepresentation made pursuant
to Section 4.2 or 4.18 of the Credit Agreement resulting from the restatement of
the Borrower's financial statements for the third quarter of its 1999 fiscal
year and the first, second and third quarters of its 2000 fiscal year or from
matters expressly disclosed

<PAGE>

to the Lenders prior to the First Amendment Effective Date pursuant to such
restated financial statements, (c) noncompliance with the last sentence of
Section 6.1 of the Credit Agreement in respect of the Borrower's financial
statements for the periods referred to in clause (b) above prior to their
restatement and (d) noncompliance with Section 7.1(b) of the Credit Agreement
for the periods ending with the third and fourth fiscal quarters of fiscal year
2000 (as restated).


         III.     MISCELLANEOUS.

                  1.       REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. The Borrower hereby
represents and warrants as of the First Amendment Effective Date that, after
giving effect to this Amendment, (a) no Default or Event of Default has occurred
and is continuing and (b) all representations and warranties of each Loan Party
contained in the Loan Documents (with each reference to the Loan Documents in
such representations and warranties being deemed to include, unless the context
otherwise requires, this Amendment and the Credit Agreement as amended by this
Amendment) are true and correct in all material respects with the same effect as
if made on and as of such date (except for those representations and warranties
which expressly relate to a specific earlier date).

                  2.       EXPENSES. The Borrower agrees to pay or reimburse the
Administrative Agent on demand for all its reasonable out-of-pocket costs and
expenses incurred in connection with the preparation and execution of this
Amendment and the transactions contemplated hereby, including, without
limitation, (a) the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the
Administrative Agent and (b) the expenses of the field examination referred to
in paragraph 4 below.

                  3.       NO CHANGE. Except as expressly provided herein, no
term or provision of the Credit Agreement shall be amended, modified or
supplemented, and each term and provision of the Credit Agreement shall remain
in full force and effect.

                  4.       EFFECTIVENESS. This Amendment shall become effective
on the date (the "FIRST AMENDMENT EFFECTIVE DATE") on which (a) the
Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof duly executed by
the Borrower and the Required Lenders, (b) the Administrative Agent shall have
received a field examination in form, scope and substance satisfactory to it and
(c) the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent for the account of
the relevant Lenders an amendment fee equal to 0.20% of the Commitment of each
Lender that submits an executed signature page to the Administrative Agent or
its counsel (including by facsimile transmission) no later than 5:00 p.m., New
York City time, on March 27, 2001.

                  5.       COUNTERPARTS. This Amendment may be executed by the
parties hereto in any number of separate counterparts, and all of said
counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same
instrument.

                  6.       GOVERNING LAW. THIS AMENDMENT AND THE RIGHTS AND
OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES UNDER THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND
CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

<PAGE>

                  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this
Amendment to be duly executed and delivered by their proper and duly authorized
officers as of the date first above written.


                                      GUESS ?, INC.

                                      By:
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Name:
                                         Title:


                                      THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK,
                                      as Administrative Agent, as Issuing Lender
                                      and as a Lender

                                      By:
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Name:
                                         Title:


                                      SANWA BANK CALIFORNIA,
                                      as Co-Agent and as a Lender

                                      By:
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Name:
                                         Title:


                                      GMAC COMMERCIAL CREDIT LLC

                                      By:
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Name:
                                         Title:


                                      ISRAEL DISCOUNT BANK OF NEW YORK

                                      By:
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Name:
                                         Title:

                                      By:
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Name:
                                         Title:


                                      MERCANTILE BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

                                      By:
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Name:
                                         Title:

<PAGE>

                                      BANK LEUMI USA

                                      By:
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Name:
                                         Title:

                                      By:
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Name:
                                         Title:


                                      ATLANTIC BANK OF NEW YORK

                                      By:
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Name:
                                         Title:


                                      SUMMIT BANK

                                      By:
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         Name:
                                         Title:

<PAGE>

                                                                         ANNEX A


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
       Consolidated Leverage           Applicable Margin       Applicable                         Applicable
               Ratio                  for Eurodollar Loans     Margin for     Commitment Fee    Documentary L/C
                                                               ABR Loans           Rate            Fee Rate

<S>                                          <C>               <C>              <C>               <C>
     Greater than or equal to                2.25%               1.25%            0.625%            0.300%
            4.00 to 1.0

     Greater than or equal to                2.00%               1.00%           0.5625%            0.275%
     3.50 to 1.0 but less than
            4.0 to 1.0

 Greater than or equal to 3.00 to            1.75%               0.75%            0.500%            0.250%
         1.0 but less than
            3.50 to 1.0

 Greater than or equal to 2.75 to            1.50%               0.50%            0.375%            0.225%
   1.0 but less than 3.00 to 1.0

 Greater than or equal to 2.50 to            1.25%               0.25%            0.375%            0.200%
   1.0 but less than 2.75 to 1.0

 Greater than or equal to 2.25 to            1.125%              0.125%           0.300%            0.175%
   1.0 but less than 2.50 to 1.0

       Less than 2.25 to 1.0                 1.000%              0.000%           0.250%            0.150%
</TABLE>

Changes in the Applicable Margin resulting from changes in the Consolidated
Leverage Ratio shall become effective on the date (the "ADJUSTMENT DATE") on
which financial statements are delivered to the Lenders pursuant to Section 6.1
(but in any event not later than the 45th day after the end of each of the first
three quarterly periods of each fiscal year or the 90th day after the end of
each fiscal year, as the case may be) and shall remain in effect until the next
change to be effected pursuant to this paragraph. If any financial statements
referred to above are not delivered within the time periods specified above,
then, until such financial statements are delivered, the Consolidated Leverage
Ratio as at the end of the fiscal period that would have been covered thereby
shall for the purposes of this definition be deemed to be greater than 4.00 to
1.0. In addition, at all times while an Event of Default shall have occurred and
be continuing, the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall for the purposes of this
definition be deemed to be greater than 4.00 to 1.0. Each determination of the
Consolidated Leverage Ratio pursuant to this pricing grid shall be made with
respect to (or, in the case of Consolidated Total Debt, as at the end of) the
period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower ending at the end of
the period covered by the relevant financial statements.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>a2043737zex-21.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 21
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

Exhibit 21.1.  List of Subsidiaries.
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Investment in                         Location                   Owned by         Percent of Ownership
- -------------                         --------                 ------------        -------------------
<S>                                  <C>                   <C>                     <C>
GUESS? Retail, Inc.                  United States             Guess ?, Inc.              100%
GUESS? Licensing, Inc.               United States             Guess ?, Inc.              100%
GUESS? Europe, BV                     Netherlands              Guess ?, Inc.              100%
Ranche Ltd.                            Hong Kong             GUESS? Europe, BV            100%
Guess.com, Inc.                      United States             Guess ? Inc.               100%
Baby GUESS? Inc.                     United States             Guess ? Inc.               100%
Guess Italia, S.r.l.                     Italy             Guess ? Europe, BV             100%
GUESS? Canada Corporation               Canada                Guess ?, Inc.                60%
</TABLE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>a2043737zex-23_1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23.1
<TEXT>

<PAGE>


Exhibit 23.1

                     Independent Accountants' Consent


We consent to incorporation by reference in the registration statement (Nos.
333-10069) on Form S-8 of Guess?, Inc. of our report dated March 7, 2001,
except for the penultimate paragraph of note 10 and the second paragraph of
note 7, which are as of March 15, 2001 and March 27, 2001, respectively,
relating to the consolidated balance sheets of Guess?, Inc. and subsidiaries
as of December 31, 2000, and 1999, and the related consolidated statements of
earnings, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2000, and the
related financial statement schedule, which report appears in the December
31, 2000 annual report on Form 10-K of Guess?, Inc.



Los Angeles, California
March 30, 2001

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
