-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 L00qe5TtNXuQNGl59pG7zajRJrIZtLMf1VzbWulUemiOPd1sjUGS79XmHrS7x9nx
 mZ2Ca+FyjV9HXltuT5FCsg==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000949303-02-000029.txt : 20020415
<SEC-HEADER>0000949303-02-000029.hdr.sgml : 20020415
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000949303-02-000029
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20011231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20020401

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MEDIX RESOURCES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000890784
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-HELP SUPPLY SERVICES [7363]
		IRS NUMBER:				841123311
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CO
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1227

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-15805
		FILM NUMBER:		02598715

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		305 MADISON AVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 2033
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10165
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2126972509

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		305 MADISON AVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 2033
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10165

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	INTERNATIONAL NURSING SERVICES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940719
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>form-1ok_123101.htm
<TEXT>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
form-10k_123101
</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<PRE>

                                  <B>UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    Form 10-K</B>


[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934 For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2001

[  ]  TRANSITION REPORT UNDER SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934
For the transition period from _______________ TO ____________

                         Commission File Number 0-24768

                              <B>MEDIX RESOURCES, INC.</B>
                 (Name of small business issuer in its charter)

                Colorado                                84-1123311
   (State or Other Jurisdiction of                     (IRS Employer
    Incorporation or Organization                    Identification No.)

                        <B>420 Lexington Avenue, Suite 1830
                            New York, New York 10170</B>
                    (Address of Principal Executive Offices)

                    Issuer's Telephone Number: <B>(212) 697-2509</B>

         Securities Registered Under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act:
                         <B>Common Stock - $.001 Par Value.</B>

         Securities Registered Under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act:
                                      <B>None</B>


Check  whether the issuer (1) filed all reports  required to be filed by Section
13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act  during the past 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),  and
(2) has been subject to such filing  requirements  for the past 90 days. Yes [X]
No [ ]


Check if there is no disclosure of delinquent  filers in response to Item 405 of
Regulation S-X contained in this form, and no disclosure  will be contained,  to
the  best  of  registrant's   knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]


The  aggregate   market  value  of  the   registrant's   Common  Stock  held  by
non-affiliates  of  the  registrant  as of  March  15,  2002  was  approximately
$31,707,233  (for  purposes  of the  foregoing  calculation  only,  each  of the
registrant's officers and directors is deemed to be an affiliate).


There were  58,386,516  shares of  registrant's  Common Stock  outstanding as of
March 15, 2001.


                      Documents incorporated by reference:
                                      <B>None</B>








                                <B>TABLE OF CONTENTS</B>


PART I

<A HREF="#business">ITEM 1.    BUSINESS</A>
<A HREF="#properties">ITEM 2     PROPERTIES</A>
<A HREF="#legal">ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS</A>
<A HREF="#submission">ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS</A>

PART II

<A HREF="#market">ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS</A>
<A HREF="#selected">ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA</A>
<A HREF="#management">ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION</A>
<A HREF="#quan">ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT  MARKET RISK</A>
<A HREF="#financial">ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA</A>
<A HREF="#changes">ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE</A>

PART III

<A HREF="#directors">ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT</A>
<A HREF="#executive">ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION</A>
<A HREF="#security">ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT</A>
<A HREF="#certain">ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS</A>

PART IV

<A HREF="#exhibit">ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K</A>








                                     <B><U>PART I</U></B>

<A NAME="business"></A>
<B>ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

Our Company</B>

     Medix Resources,  Inc., a Colorado  corporation ("Medix" or the "Company"),
is an information  technology company with its principal executive office in New
York, New York. The Company also maintains offices in Agoura Hills,  California,
Greenwood  Village,  Colorado  and  Marietta,  Georgia.  We  specialize  in  the
development, marketing and management of software and connectivity solutions for
clinical and business  transactions within the healthcare industry.  Through our
wholly  owned  subsidiary,  Cymedix  Lynx  Corporation,  a Colorado  corporation
("Cymedix"),  we have developed the  Cymedix(R)suite  of software  products as a
toolkit to help modernize physician and healthcare  communication technology and
facilitate  transaction  productivity.  We  continue  to enhance  and refine our
products to enable the many disparate  information systems within the healthcare
industry to  communicate  with one another and to expand the scope of healthcare
transaction automation.

     The  Cymedix(R)suite  of products  facilitates the transmission of critical
clinical,   financial  and   administrative   information   between   healthcare
information systems, and provides healthcare institutions (such as health plans,
insurers,  hospitals  and  practicing  physicians)  with  non-invasive  software
products that can be integrated  with their existing  software  applications  to
provide  Internet-enabled  transaction  capability  between  all  parties.  This
approach is significant  because it offers substantial utility to physicians who
are cautious about making major  adjustments  to their  practice  disciplines or
reluctant to invest heavily in new, administrative technologies.

     The implementation of Cymedix(R)software products targets improved efficacy
of daily  interactions  between health  caregivers  and their staffs,  ancillary
providers such as laboratories and pharmacy  benefit managers (PBMs),  insurance
companies, hospitals, Integrated Delivery Networks (IDNs) and Health Maintenance
Organizations  (HMOs).  Recent State and Federal legislative actions, as well as
industry  mandates to promote  quality  and the  privacy of patient  information
while controlling  costs,  have created fertile ground for effective  technology
solutions  that unite systems and enable digital  communication.  The market for
robust and practical  healthcare  solutions  will grow rapidly,  and that growth
will continue to accelerate as the joined emphases of consumer choice,  quality,
administrative  service  and  cost-containment  ratchet  up the  demand for more
efficient and user-friendly methods of delivering quality healthcare.

     Moreover,  Medix understands the essentially local nature of healthcare and
will deploy  Cymedix(R)software  products only in regions where we can guarantee
that each installed  physician can use our  technologies to serve most of his or
her   patients.   This   disciplined   market   approach,   combined   with  the
Cymedix(R)suite of  physician-centric  software products,  provides a foundation
for rapid adoption,  ongoing utilization and stable,  recurring revenue streams.
Our  regional  strategy  and  focus  on  authentic  physician  adoption  is what
differentiates us from most eHealth companies, including those who have survived
the rough justice of today's market, as well as the many who have perished.

     Medix was  incorporated  in the  State of  Colorado  in 1988.  For the next
decade, the Company operated as a temporary  healthcare  staffing company,  with
offices at various  times in Colorado,  New York,  Texas and  California.  Medix
disposed of the its remaining  healthcare  staffing operations in February 2000.
In  January  1998,  the  Company  acquired  Cymedix  Corporation,  a  California
corporation,  which was  merged  into our  wholly  owned  healthcare  technology
subsidiary, Cymedix Lynx Corporation.

     As of March 15,  2002,  we are in various  stages of  project  development,
testing and market  implementation  with six  clients  using  components  of the
Cymedix(R)software  suite to link healthcare participants by using the Internet.
While none of these projects have generated any significant revenues to date, if
funding can be obtained to continue and expand our  operations,  these  projects
should  position us as one of the  technology  leaders in the  emerging  eHealth
industry.  All of these  projects  involve  working with an existing  healthcare
insurer,   reference  laboratory  or  pharmacy  benefit  management  company  to
integrate selected  Cymedix(R)products  into their networks to enable physicians
to use those products for pharmacy  management  transactions,  laboratory orders
and results reporting or claims processing. See "Forward-Looking  Statements and
Associated  Risks"  under  "MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION below.

     Our principal  executive office is located at 420 Lexington  Avenue,  Suite
1830,  New York,  NY 10170,  and its  telephone  number is (212)  697-2509.  Our
principal  administrative  office  is at 7100  East  Belleview  Ave.,  Greenwood
Village, CO 80111, and its telephone number is (303) 741-2045.

<B>Recent Developments</B>

     We executed an Amended and  Restated  Common  Stock  Purchase  Warrant with
WellPoint  Pharmacy  Management a wholly owned  subsidiary  of WellPoint  Health
Networks Inc.,  dated February 18, 2002, to restructure our obligations to issue
warrants to  WellPoint.  Under that  Warrant,  we are  obligated  to issue up to
7,000,000  shares of our common stock at exercise  prices of $0.30 per share for
3,000,000,  $0.50  per  share  for  3,000,000  shares  and  $1.75  per share for
1,000,000  shares,  if various  performance  related  vesting  requirements  are
satisfied by WellPoint.  Currently,  WellPoint  has  satisfied  certain of these
requirements  giving  WellPoint  the right to purchase  1,850,000  shares of our
common  stock at $0.30  per  share.  The  Warrant  grants to  WellPoint  certain
registration  rights to require us to register with the SEC the shares issued to
WellPoint  for resale to the public.  In the  Warrant,  WellPoint  has agreed to
restrict  sales to the public of these  shares  during the first year after they
have been  issued to  200,000  shares per month and  100,000  shares in any five
trading days. The Warrant contains  anti-dilution  provisions providing that the
number of shares that may be  purchased  by  WellPoint  under the Warrant may be
adjusted in certain  circumstances.  WellPoint's  rights to purchase  our shares
under the Warrant expire on September 8, 2004.

     We entered into a secured convertible loan agreement with WellPoint,  dated
February  19,  2002,  pursuant to which we borrowed  $1,000,000  from  WellPoint
Health  Networks  Inc.  The loan becomes  payable on February  19, 2003,  if not
converted  into our common stock.  The loan earns annual  interest at a floating
rate of 300 basis points over prime, as it is adjusted from time to time,  which
is also payable at maturity and may be converted  into common stock.  Conversion
into common stock is at the option of either  WellPoint or Medix at a contingent
conversion  price. The conversion price will be either (i) at the price at which
additional shares are sold to other private placement investors if Medix obtains
written commitments for at least an additional $4,000,000 of equity by the close
of business on September 30, 2002, from persons not affiliates of WellPoint, and
if such sales are closed by the  maturity  date of the loan,  or (ii) at a price
equal to 80% of the  then-current  Fair Market Value (as defined below) if Medix
is unable to obtain a written commitment for the additional equity investment by
the close of business on  September  30, 2002 or close the sales by the maturity
date. For this purpose,  "Fair Market Value" shall be the average  closing price
of Medix common stock for the twenty trading days ending on the day prior to the
day of the conversion.  The loan is secured by the grant of a security  interest
in all Medix's  intellectual  property,  including  its patent,  copyrights  and
trademarks.  While Medix can cure a default in the  repayment of the loan at the
fixed maturity date by the forced  conversion of the loan into its common stock,
a cross default, breach of representation or warranty, and bankruptcy or similar
event  of  default  will  trigger  the  foreclosure  provision  of the  security
agreement.  The Company expects to require  conversion at the earliest  possible
time,  which may be before September 30, 2002 if the required funds are received
at which point the pledge of collateral will be received.

     In October 2001,  Medix announced the  introduction of  Cymedix(R)III,  the
next generation of its  proprietary,  point-of-care  products.  Cymedix(R)III is
based upon a robust and device-neutral  architecture that leverages  established
workstation,  handheld and wireless  technologies  and supports Medix' long-term
commitment  to  support  emerging  exam  room  and  point-of-care  technologies.
Cymedix(R)III  products,  including working applications for Cymedix(R)Pharmacy,
Laboratory  and  PlanConnect  services,  will be made available to physicians in
2002. Until recently,  the combination of expensive,  front-end  equipment costs
coupled  with   time-consuming   and  often  problematic  data   synchronization
requirements  effectively  dampened  the  physician's  appetite  for  any of the
point-of-care  technologies being offered. Our new Cymedix(R)III architecture is
both  fully  scalable  and  device-neutral,   allowing  our  Pharmacy,  Lab  and
PlanConnect  products to be delivered  via  workstation  and  wireless  handheld
devices with the  technologies  available  today as well as those of the future.
The addition of wireless  capability  within our  Cymedix(R)III  product release
naturally  complements  the Medix  suite of  transaction  products,  and enables
physicians  and their  office  staff to execute the full range of  clinical  and
support  transactions from their office workstation,  their home desktop or from
the exam room itself,  via a handheld device with real-time  synchronization  of
secure patient data. We believe that the expanded  capabilities of Cymedix(R)III
offer a  compelling  value  return  for  physicians  and will  accelerate  their
adoption of our technology.

     Finally, during 2001, we ceased operations of our Automated Design Concepts
division (ADC), a Web design business.  We had acquired ADC in early 2000 from a
former  officer  and  director  of the  Company  for cash and  stock  valued  at
$474,000.  In connection with our general cost reduction program,  we determined
that the business of the subsidiary was not part of our core business operations
and  therefore did not justify our continued  financial  support.  In connection
with the  termination  of our  subsidiary's  operations  we took a write-off  of
goodwill  in the amount of  $443,000.  We also  determined  that our  license of
proprietary  software from  ZirMed.com had no value to us and had no more than a
nominal market value. In 2001, we wrote-off the unamortized value of the related
intangible asset, which was $668,000.

<B>Our Industry</B>

     The U.S.  Centers for Medicare and Medicaid  Services  (formerly the Health
Care Finance Administration) estimates that $1.4 trillion dollars, or 14% of the
U.S.  Gross  domestic  product,  is spent  annually  on  healthcare.  Healthcare
expenditures are expected to grow to approximately $2.8 trillion by 2011, due to
increasingly   expensive  and  sophisticated   clinical  technology,   an  aging
population base and the growing demands of newly-empowered  and health conscious
consumers.

     Every year, the healthcare industry conducts its business by executing more
than 30 billion transactions, more than 90% of which are untouched by integrated
automation.   Core   transactions   --  such  as  enrollment   and   eligibility
verification,   referrals  and  authorizations,   lab  orders  and  lab  results
reporting,  billing and claims and  prescription-writing  with drug  interaction
checks  -- are  processed  through a  disjointed  matrix  of  isolated  systems,
including  paper,  fax and  phone.  Of  necessity,  every  provider,  insurer or
supplier has invested in its own  proprietary and often  antiquated  information
system. As a result,  duplication is rampant,  error  probabilities are enormous
and the waste of precious resources is glaringly obvious.

     Health  economists  estimate  that  20%  or  more  of  the  nation's  total
healthcare expenditures is spent on backroom  administration.  Another 10% funds
the  fallout  of  adverse  health  events  that  are  caused  by  inaccurate  or
unavailable patient information.  The cumulative effect is that, more than 4% of
our  nation's  annual  economic  output  is  being  consumed  by a  service  and
transactions industry that pleases no one and angers many.

     Today's  inefficient and "silo" healthcare  information systems are created
by the extreme fragmentation and complexity of the industry. Briefly:

o    Healthcare remains a quintessentially cottage industry. There are currently
     approximately  645,000  practicing  physicians,   6,200  hospitals,  16,500
     nursing  homes,   8,000  home  health  care  agencies,   4,500  independent
     laboratories  and  thousands  of  managed  care   organizations  and  other
     ancillary (usually local) health care providers.

o    The various  constituents  of healthcare have sharply  different  levels of
     access  to  capital.  Typically,  insurers  have had the  finances  to fund
     large-scale  systems  able to  structure  and  share  uniform  information.
     Physicians  do  not.  This  imbalance  has  produced  an  industry  rich in
     proprietary    administrative   systems   but   poor   in   patient-focused
     point-of-care information systems.

o    Government  regulation  of the  industry  is  splintered  across 50 states,
     coupled with substantial federal intervention.

o    Healthcare  is an  extremely  complex  business.  Literally,  errors can be
     life-threatening.   Until  recently,  affordable  technologies  capable  of
     replacing wasteful,  but comparatively safe  administrative  practices were
     not available.


     The Internet provides a platform for catalytic change within the healthcare
industry. Grabbing hold of that opportunity requires the deployment of effective
connectivity  tools that enable disparate  systems to effectively and affordably
communicate with one another. The Internet's emerging,, ubiquitous accessibility
and   growing   acceptance   make  it  an   increasingly   critical   tool   for
business-to-business and business-to-consumer  interaction.  Moreover,  Internet
use is undergoing a transformation from simple,  static information  publishing,
messaging,  and data gathering to real-time,  interactive  applications that are
capable of  supporting  core  business  transactions  and  fundamental  business
processes.

     In many  industries,  work is in  progress  to  harness  the  power  of the
Internet  and to fuse  previously  disconnected  business  processes  that allow
companies to reengineer workflows,  reduce administrative and distribution costs
and leverage core-competency,  expert resources. Because of its size, complexity
and  dependence  on accurate and timely  information  exchange,  the  healthcare
industry is well suited to benefit from the  connectivity  and data  integration
solutions  that we are  developing.  In  addition,  as more  and  more  powerful
technology  tools  become  available  at  decreasing  cost  levels,   (including
workstations,   handheld  devices  and  wireless  networks),   we  believe  that
physicians will acquire more advanced  technology  platforms to optimize patient
care, automate processes and better leverage their clinical experience.

     Administrative  processes in healthcare consume  approximately $300 billion
per year.  Insurers  typically spend 10-12% of gross premiums in administration,
not including  sales  acquisition  costs. A typical  physician  practice  spends
between 25%-50% of gross billings on administration. Medix's mission is to offer
a set of tools to  physicians  and to  insurers  that  takes  direct  aim at the
present tab of administrative  cost and reduces the potential of clinical error.
For the eHealth industry, we believe it to be a $20 billion opportunity.

<B>Our Products and Technology</B>

     Cymedix(R)is  a suite of  software  products  and  integration  tools  that
seamlessly moves clinical and administrative  information among health insurers,
physicians,   pharmacy   benefit   management   companies  and  reference  labs.
Collectively,  they create an indispensable,  non-invasive  technology  platform
that  establishes  secure  connectivity  among the many isolated  systems of the
healthcare industry. The Cymedix(R)platform enables physicians or their staff to
use software that  transparently  performs the timesaving  activity of gathering
and  transmitting  vital  patient  information  to  healthcare  entities.  Since
physicians   can   offload   substantial    administrative    burdens   to   the
Cymedix(R)software  products, we believe they will see the opportunity to employ
the Cymedix(R)product suite (PBM, payor, pharmacy, lab and hospital connections)
to improve the quality of patient care and to grow their business.

     We deliver our  solutions  via the Internet  using secure socket layers and
other encryption  technologies  that protect  confidential  patient  information
while reducing the physician's  need to purchase and manage on-site hardware and
software systems.  The Cymedix(R)suite of products may be utilized on any device
that supports an Internet browser,  allowing our software to run on a wide range
of  equipment,   from  aging  personal  computers  to  leading  edge  exam  room
technologies (handheld devices,  tablets,  etc.). In addition, the advent of low
cost,  secure  wireless  networking  solutions  makes the last inch of the "last
mile" of physician practice  implementation vastly easier today than even a year
ago.

     Our Cymedix(R)Universal Interface (CUI) is central to the implementation of
the  Cymedix(R)suite  of products.  Physicians  generally  reject new technology
solutions  that  require new  investments  in time or money over and above their
primary investment in practice management systems.  Therefore,  we believe it is
imperative  to  deliver  solutions  that  effectively  leverage  their  practice
management  investment  at no  additional  cost.  The CUI toolkit  automatically
extracts  pre-selected  data  elements  from  existing  systems  and  remaps the
targeted  information for use by the  Cymedix(R)software  suite. This technology
permits the  Cymedix(R)suite  to  efficiently  and  effectively  integrate  with
virtually any practice  management system,  thereby eliminating the need to hard
code unique,  expensive and time-consuming  interfaces.  Typically, the practice
management system is the only administrative information system in a physician's
practice and is therefore the most trusted  source for patient and billing data.
The CUI  enables  the  physician's  staff to embrace  the  Cymedix(R)suite  as a
value-added  adjunct of their legacy  practice  management  system,  all without
having to bear  duplicative  processes such as the re-keying of critical patient
data.

The Cymedix(R)software suite of products includes:

     ----------------------------  --------------------------------------

                                   o  Pharmacy benefit manager
     Cymedix(R)Pharmacy   >>>>        identification (eligibility
                                      verification and an automatic
                                      link to formulary/benefits
                                      information.)
                                   o  Electronic prescribing (retail
                                      and mail order).
                                   o  Medication history.
                                   o  Treatment and formulary
                                      compliance.
                                   o  Drug to drug interaction, drug to
                                      allergy, duplicate therapy and
                                      other clinical checks.
                                   o  Messaging and prompts.
                                   o  Compliance analysis
                                   o  Complete lab order entry.
     Cymedix(R)Lab   >>>>          o  Medical necessity verification.
                                   o  24/7  results  reporting  (partial
                                      and full).
                                   o  Specimen tracking.
                                   o  Messaging and prompts.
                                   o  Cumulative and custom reporting.
                                   o  Eligibility verification.
     Cymedix(R)PlanConnect >>>>    o  Referrals and authorizations.
                                   o  Custom messaging and prompts.
                                   o  Electronic claim validation,
                                      submission and tracking.



     The introduction of our proprietary,  point-of-care  products is proceeding
with our six active  customers.  Our suite of software  products is based upon a
robust  and  device-neutral  architecture  that  leverages  proven  workstation,
handheld  and  wireless  technologies.  Our  Cymedix(R)technology   architecture
includes a flexible  integration  framework that facilitates  rapid and reliable
connectivity  efforts.  All product components,  including  Cymedix(R) Pharmacy,
Cymedix(R) Laboratory and Cymedix(R)PlanConnect services are in final testing as
we prepare for production-level physician installations in second quarter 2002.

     On the sponsor host side, we are in late-stage  development and testing for
customized  integrations  with  each  of our  active  contracts.  When we sign a
connectivity  agreement with a transaction  sponsor (PBM, payor, lab,  hospital,
etc.),  we move into a disciplined  integration  phase in which we establish the
interface connection to the sponsor,  enable transactions,  tailor the front-end
to the sponsor's requirements, and incorporate any sponsor-specific rules within
our applications.  Generally,  this integration phase should take between 90-120
days,  depending upon the pace, regimen and internal resource  allocation set by
our  customers.  However,  as we have learned with  earlier  pilots,  these time
frames are  variable  and may be extended  indefinitely  for reasons  beyond our
control. After the integration phase is completed, we move to the deployment and
production phase when transaction fee revenues will be generated.

     We have targeted our initial,  production-level  physician installations to
begin in second quarter 2002 and we currently expect transaction fee revenues to
commence  before the end of the second  quarter  2002.  While we had expected to
begin receiving such revenues in the first quarter of 2002, the scope and timing
of several sponsor host integrations  required that we push the physician launch
date to the next quarter.  As a result,  we have yet to receive any  transaction
fee revenue.

     The marketing and development of our  Cymedix(R)suite  of software products
is our  sole  business  at  this  time,  and a  substantial  portion  of our net
operating  loss is due to such efforts.  We are funding such expenses as well as
our administrative expenses through the sale of our securities.

<B>Our Sponsor Customer Relationships</B>

     As an eHealth connectivity company, Medix must build relationships with two
sets of customers: physician end-users and sponsor host institutions,  including
health plans,  pharmacy  benefit  managers,  reference  laboratories  and other,
ancillary types of managed care networks. These sponsor organizations, typically
large  enterprises,  pay our  per-click  transaction  fees as  described  in the
section titled "Our Strategy and Business Model" below. Our  relationships  with
WellPoint  Pharmacy  Management,  Merck-Medco  and  Express  Scripts,  Inc.  all
recorded key sponsor customer events in 2001

<I>WellPoint Pharmacy Management</I>

     In 2001,  Medix  announced  that we had  completed  our pilot  program with
WellPoint  Pharmacy  Management  (WPM)  and  a  joint  deployment  of  Web-based
transactions  services  to WPM health  plan  customers  and their  participating
physicians  will begin during 2002. WPM has long committed to providing value to
customers,   patients  and  physician   partners   through  the  elimination  of
administrative  waste, clinical error, fraud and abuse. They enjoy a well-earned
reputation  for  extraordinary  growth  and  clinical  programs  of  excellence.
Together,  Medix and WPM have  forged  deep,  long-term  ties  bound by a common
objective to provide physicians with the tools and means to elevate the clinical
experience  through shared  information and decision  support.  Our robust pilot
program with WPM,  combined with the gathering  momentum in the emerging eHealth
industry,  has allowed Medix to strengthen  our sales pipeline over a compressed
timeframe.  In  addition,  our  multi  dimensional   relationship  involves  the
following:

     <I>Product Distribution</I> - Through the execution of an amendment to the Warrant
Agreement,  WellPoint Pharmacy Management has formally agreed to recommend Medix
Resources,  Inc. to their  customers  and key vendors.  WPM enjoys a diversified
customer  base  that  includes  health  plans,   employers  and  regional  PBMs.
Initially, Medix and WPM are focusing joint sales activities on WPM's large Blue
Cross Blue Shield plan customers. Executing customer agreements with WPM's large
customers  will provide Medix with  significant  patient  density in several key
markets. Under a formal agreement with specific targets and incentives, WPM will
earn warrants in Medix shares when  WPM-sponsored  customers  agree to implement
the Cymedix(R) technology set.

     <I>Product  Development</I> - Medix and WPM are executing a shared,  formal agenda
to  continually  research,  test and implement new product  enhancements.  These
collaborative  product development efforts offer a substantive benefit to Medix,
as WPM  possesses a powerful  repository  of  pharmacy  industry  knowledge  and
distinguished clinical expertise.

     Our longstanding and close working  relationship  with WPM is a significant
asset,  especially as they are a first-rate  reference  with which we can expand
our reach to healthcare's other large constituencies.

<I>Merck-Medco and Express Scripts, Inc.</I>

     In October 2001, we announced  agreements with two of the nation's  leading
pharmacy benefit managers,  Merck-Medco and Express Scripts, Inc. These business
relationships  allow us to  provide  physicians  with  point-of-care  access  to
clinical information and electronic prescribing. Client integration work is well
underway  and we will  shortly  begin  joint  deployment  of these  services  to
Merck-Medco and Express Scripts health plan customers and physicians.  Different
than the  start-up  of our WPM  relationship,  neither  Merck-Medco  nor Express
Scripts requires a phased product pilot program.

     Our  agreements   with   Merck-Medco  and  Express  Scripts  are  important
milestones  for Medix.  Merck-Medco  is the  nation's  second  largest  pharmacy
benefits  manager,  with a  client  roster  that  includes  major  insurers  and
corporations  throughout  the  nation  and more  importantly  within  our target
markets.  Likewise,  Express  Scripts,  Inc. is an ideal match  because of their
demonstrated market leadership. Both Merck-Medco and Express Scripts are leading
sponsors of technology initiatives that place decision-making tools in the hands
of  physicians  at the point of care.  Together,  our joint efforts will provide
physicians and their staffs with easy-to-use connectivity solutions that support
all aspects of the prescription process.

<B>Our Strategy and Business Model</B>

     <I>General.</I>  Our market  strategy is  organized  around  several  well-defined
components.  First,  we believe  that there is  significant  value  attached  to
offering products that complement today's commonly available technologies.  This
is a critical  aspect of the added value that we bring to our sponsor  customers
and  physicians.  For  Medix,  it means  delivering  connectivity  and  software
solutions  that  take into  consideration  our  users'  current  technology  and
workflows.  For example,  many  physician  practices  have not yet invested in a
high-speed  (DSL/cable)  Internet  connection.  Therefore  we have  designed our
products to excel at every level of  connectivity,  from the less  sophisticated
dial-up capability to high speed, persistent connections.

     Second, our business model is a per-click transaction fee model paid for by
large institutional sponsors with an interest in enabling their connectivity and
information  sharing with physician  offices.  Physicians'  offices operate on a
private network created by Medix and financed by per click transaction fees from
sponsoring  institutions.  We expect  that this  approach  will offer  favorable
returns  to  sponsoring   institutions  through  aggregate   administrative  and
underwriting cost savings while enabling physicians' offices to reduce paperwork
and costs within their practice environment with no front-end investment. In the
longer term, as the value proposition  becomes more obvious to physicians,  they
may elect to pay for an expanded suite of services.

     Third, we believe that the functionality  provided by the Cymedix(R)product
suite,  together with the CUI,  gives us a distinct  competitive  advantage.  By
enabling  physician  practices  to  continue to use their  existing  information
systems while accessing our non-invasive technology,  we recognize and honor the
physician's  investment in their choice of practice management  technology.  Our
approach recognizes that, as in medicine, our first duty is to do no harm. Thus,
while the  Cymedix(R)product  suite offers  attractive  timesaving  clinical and
administrative capabilities,  our products do not put at risk any of the assumed
"safe" features of today's processes.

     Fourth,  we act as support  partners to our customers and users. Our intent
is to leave the business of medicine to  physicians  and the business of managed
care to managed care companies.  We bring value by constructing safe and secure,
high-speed  data  highways  that enable  connectivity  and  provide  hassle-free
productivity tools for all users.

     Finally,  we believe that our  approach and the products  that we make take
direct aim at the wasteful  administration costs that plague all of healthcare's
stakeholders.  Our  internal  standards  mandate  that  we  make  a  substantive
difference  in this  area,  and we ask our  users  and  customers  to  judge  us
accordingly.

     Taken  together,   these  strategy   components   position  Medix  to  earn
substantial,  recurring revenue streams at attractive  margins.  Moreover,  once
critical  density is reached,  continued  growth in our core product line can be
supported  without  substantial  reinvestment  in added  support or  fulfillment
infrastructure, further leveraging our market investment returns for the future.

     Our plan to secure long-term  recurring revenue streams via the creation of
contractual  relationships  with large sponsors is well underway.  As physicians
grow  to  appreciate  the  benefit  of  our  institutionally  sponsored  product
offerings  and to  recognize  the  value of  clinical  and  administrative  data
captured  during ongoing use of our product suite, we believe we can establish a
market for  physician-centric  enhancements  and add-ons to our products.  Medix
plans to offer physicians  additional  timesaving  features that further improve
patient  care  and  practice   profitability.   Among  these  features  will  be
connectivity  gateways to non-sponsored  transactions,  charge capture,  patient
relationship  management  services  and  document  management.  We  expect  that
physicians will pay for these  additional  services under a subscription  model.
Broadly cast, our business model follows the following regimen:

|X|  Medix   establishes  a  connection   between  sponsor   organizations   and
     physicians.

|X|  Using the CUI and our product suite, physicians and practice administrators
     drive  transactions  via their  practice  management  systems,  handheld or
     wireless devices, or through a direct Internet connection to Medix servers.

|X|  Sponsor organizations pay for transactions.

|X|  Physicians  will pay for  subscription  services  to gain  access to future
     product  enhancements that leverage their  administrative  efficiencies and
     clinical effectiveness.

     <I>Our Regional  Strategy.</I>  Healthcare  services are  insured,  delivered  and
remunerated  differently  from one  region to  another.  Medix  understands  the
essential,  local  nature  of  healthcare  and  will  deploy  Cymedix(R)software
products only in regions where we can assure that each  installed  physician can
use our  technologies  to serve most of his or her  patients.  This  disciplined
market  approach,   combined  with  the  Cymedix(R)suite  of  physician-oriented
software  products,  provides a foundation  for rapid  adoption,  and  sustained
physician  utilization.   Moreover,  we  believe  that  contracting  with  large
communities  of  physicians  and sponsor  organizations  within  highly  defined
geographies  creates a highly  desirable  financial and  operating  scenario for
Medix as well as lasting brand presence that sharply  differentiates us from our
competition.

     Given  adequate  long term  financing,  we intend  to  initially  focus our
resources on deploying the  Cymedix(R)software  suite in five markets.  They are
Atlanta,  Northern California,  Southern  California,  the New York Metropolitan
Area, and Chicago.  As of March 2002, our Atlanta market development efforts are
underway with a planned Q2, 2002 product launch.

     See  "Forward-Looking  Statements and Associated Risks" under "MANAGEMENT'S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" below.

<B>Our Marketing and Sales Approach</B>

     The Company intends to pursue a focused but multi-dimensional marketing and
sales strategy over the next several years. Specifically:

o    We will concentrate our energies on selected,  geographical  target markets
     that provide ample  transaction  potential and offer us the  opportunity to
     penetrate a significant share of physician desktops.

o    We will seek to partner  first with a leading,  anchor client or consortium
     of anchor clients in each of the selected markets.

o    Following  platform   development  with  the  anchor  client(s),   we  will
     concentrate  our sales  focus on  enlisting  the second  tier of  potential
     customers,  including corollary agreements with regional-specific suppliers
     such as  pharmacy  benefit  managers,  labs and large,  organized  provider
     groups. Our goal is to achieve major market density.

o    Concurrent with the market breadth effort described above, the Company will
     aggressively  seek added market depth by up-selling and  cross-selling  the
     full  portfolio  of  product  services  to  existing  customers  and  their
     affiliates.

o    As our brand and  presence  gains  local  strength,  we will seek to market
     relevant  enhancements and add-ons to our products  directly to physicians,
     using a monthly subscription model.

<I>Sales Process</I>

     Most of our customers are large health plans,  PBM's and lab companies that
are national in scope, but are operated on a local or regional basis. Therefore,
it is imperative to organize sales efforts at both the national and local levels
to close sales, gain market share and retain existing customers. Consistent with
our  regional  approach  to market  sales and  implementations,  the Medix sales
process draws resources and experience from both corporate and regional teams.

       ----------------------------------     ---------------------------------

       National Sales Process Team            Regional Sales Process Teams

       |X|   CEO                              |X|   Regional Market CEO
       |X|   EVP &amp; CTO                        |X|   Local Implementation Team
       |X|   EVP Operations                   |X|   Local Consultants (as
       |X|   Selected Technology Team                needed)
              Members                         |X|   Selected Technology Team
                                                     Members

       ----------------------------------     ---------------------------------

     Medix views the sales process to gain customer  relationships as a two-step
process.  This  process can happen  sequentially  or be pursued  along  parallel
tracks.  The national  sales process team is  responsible  for  negotiating  and
executing  contracts  as well as  charged  with  the  responsibility  to  expand
customer  relationships  in terms  of  product  base or  market  expansion.  The
regional sales process team is  responsible  for local account sales and account
management and the local administration of the sale's execution for our national
customers.

     At present, our executive staff devotes a substantive portion of their time
to sales,  marketing  and  account  management  activities.  Longer  term,  with
appropriate  financing  in place,  we expect to  recruit  and hire a new head of
Corporate Business Development,  as well as to staff our regional  organizations
with resident sales professionals to complement current resources.

     Outside   consultants   have  been  engaged  to  assist  with  sales  leads
development and  target-customer  introductions.  Outside  contractors also have
been  retained  to  develop  marketing  and  sales  literature  for the  Cymedix
software.  Materials  to promote  the  various  Cymedix  applications  are being
developed for direct mailing to physicians affiliated with our customers.

<B>Competition</B>

     <B>eHealth  Services.</B>  The market for  eHealth  services is  evolving,  highly
fragmented  and  subject  to  fast-moving  technological  change.  Although  our
competitive position is difficult to characterize,  due principally to the youth
of our market  niche and the  diversity  of current and future  competitors,  we
believe the primary competitive  elements in the eHealth  connectivity  business
are: (i) the scope,  quality and performance of the technologies  offered;  (ii)
rates of physician adoption and sustained  utilization;  and (iii) the integrity
and market-worthiness of pricing and data models.

     We  believe  our  principal  competitive  advantages  are:  (i) our  robust
technology architecture;  (ii) our CUI toolkit; (iii) our clinical product base;
(iiii) our  regional  and  physician-centric  focus;  and (iiiii)  our  customer
relationships.  There are other  connectivity  companies,  in the United States,
both publicly held and private,  that compete  directly or indirectly with Medix
Resources, Inc. Moreover, competition can be expected to emerge from established
healthcare  information vendors and established or new Internet related vendors.
The most likely  competitors are companies with a focus on clinical  information
systems and enterprises with an Internet  commerce or electronic  network focus.
Currently,  we view our main  competitors  as  WebMD,  ProxyMed,  NaviMedix  and
AllScripts. These competitors may have greater financial marketing or technology
resources  than us. We will  seek to raise  capital  to  develop  and  implement
Cymedix products in a timely manner,  however,  so long as our operations remain
under funded, as they are now, we will be at a competitive disadvantage.

     <B>Software  Development  Personnel.</B>  The  success of the  development  of our
Cymedix software is dependent to a significant  degree on our key management and
technical  personnel.  We believe  that our  success  will also  depend upon our
ability to attract,  motivate and retain highly skilled,  managerial,  sales and
marketing,  and technical personnel,  including software programmers and systems
architects  skilled in the  computer  languages  in which our  Cymedix  products
operate. Competition for such personnel in the software and information services
industries is intense.  The loss of key  personnel,  or the inability to hire or
retain qualified personnel,  could have a material adverse effect on our results
of operations, financial condition or business.

<B>Patents, Trademarks and Copyrights</B>

     US Patent No 5,995,939 was issued on November 30, 1999 to our  wholly-owned
subsidiary,  Cymedix Lynx  Corporation from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
("USPTO").  The patent  covers our  automated  service  request and  fulfillment
system and will expire October 14, 2017. A divisional U.S.  patent  application,
including  five  claims  directed  to the  method by which the  system  operates
through the Cymedix Universal Interface, has been abandoned

     The USPTO issued to Cymedix U.S.  Trademark  Registration No. 2,269,377 for
the mark  CYMEDIX  in  connection  with  "computer  software  for data  base and
electronic  record  management in the healthcare field" on August 10, 1999, U.S.
Trademark  Registration  No.  2,316,240  for the mark  LYNX in  connection  with
"computer  software to provide secure  communication  on a global  communication
information  network" on February 8, 2000, and U.S.  Trademark  Registration No.
2,409,248 for the mark  CYMEDIX.COM in connection  with  "computer  software for
database and electronic  record  management in the healthcare field" on November
28, 2000.

     Cymedix has obtained seven copyright registrations for two versions of each
of three modular software  components of the Cymedix suite of products,  as well
as a technical evaluation document that describes the software products.

     No assurance  can be given that any of our software  products  will receive
additional  patent  or  other  intellectual  property  protection.  Cymedix  has
assigned the above patent and copyrights registrations to Medix.

     We seek to protect our software,  documentation and other written materials
primarily  through a combination of trade secret,  trademark and copyright laws,
confidentiality  procedures and contractual provisions.  In addition, we seek to
avoid disclosure of our trade secrets,  by, among other things,  requiring those
persons with access to our  proprietary  information to execute  confidentiality
agreements with us and restricting access to our source code.

     Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties
may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use  information  that
we  regard  as  proprietary.  Policing  unauthorized  use  of  our  products  is
difficult.  While we are unable to  determine  the extent to which piracy of our
products  exists,  software  piracy can be expected to be a persistent  problem,
particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary
rights as fully as in the United States.

     From time to time, we are involved in intellectual  property  disputes.  We
may notify others that we believe their products  infringe upon our intellectual
property  rights,  and we may be notified by others that they  believe  that our
products  infringe  on  their  intellectual  property  rights.  We  expect  that
providers of eHealth  solutions  will  increasingly  be subject to  infringement
claims as the number of  products  and  competitors  in our  industry  grows and
traditional  suppliers of health care data and  transaction  solutions  begin to
offer  Internet-based  products.  If our proprietary  technology is subjected to
infringement  claims,  we may  have to  expend  substantial  amounts  to  defend
ourselves,  and, if we lose,  pay damages or seek a license from third  parties,
which  could delay  sales of our  products.  If our  proprietary  technology  is
infringed  upon,  we may have to expend  substantial  amounts to  prosecute  the
infringing parties,  and we may experience losses if we cannot support our claim
of infringement.

     We have been notified by a party that it believes our pharmacy  product may
infringe on patents that it holds.  We have retained patent counsel who has made
a preliminary investigation and determined that our product does not infringe on
the identified patents. At this time no legal action has been instituted.

<B>Government Regulation</B>

     Federal  and  state  laws and  regulations  regulate  many  aspects  of our
business.  Since  sanctions  may  be  imposed  for  violations  of  these  laws,
compliance  is a  significant  operational  requirement.  We  believe  we are in
substantial  compliance  with all existing  legal  requirements  material to the
operation  of our  businesses.  There are,  however,  significant  uncertainties
involving the  application of many of these legal  requirements to our business.
We are  unable to  predict  what  additional  federal  or state  legislation  or
regulatory  initiatives may be enacted in the future relating to our business or
the health  care  industry in general,  or what effect any such  legislation  or
regulations  might have on us. We cannot  provide any assurance  that federal or
state   governments   will  not   impose   additional   restrictions   or  adopt
interpretations  of existing laws that could have a material  adverse  affect on
our results or operations, financial position and/or cash flow from operations.

     <B>HIPAA and Standardized  Transactions.</B>  Our sponsor  customers and physician
users must comply with the Administration Simplification provision of the Health
Insurance  Portability and  Accountability  Act of 1996 (HIPAA),  which includes
regulations  for  privacy,  transactions,   code  sets,  security  and  standard
identifiers.   Final   regulations  and   implementation   deadlines  exist  for
transactions,  code sets and privacy while only proposed  regulations  exist for
security  and  standard  identifiers.  Accordingly,  our  products  must contain
features and  functionality  that allow our  customers  and users to comply with
existing law.

     As the effective date of the HIPAA regulations  approach,  they will have a
major  impact  on us as  well  as  every  other  participant  in the  healthcare
industry. Significant resources will be required to implement these regulations.
Major  retooling of medical  information  technology will be required to install
the required  standardized  codes and procedures.  Transaction  standards,  code
sets,  and  identifiers  will  need to be  installed  on  medical  participants'
networks and office computers. Security and privacy regulations will be the most
difficult  to  implement  and  maintain  because  they are broad in scope,  less
definitive,  and require ongoing vigilance to assure compliance.  Estimate costs
of implementation vary widely but will be in the billion of dollars.  Failure to
comply could put us or any other healthcare participant out of business.

     We believe that our  Cymedix(R)software  product  offerings are designed to
allow for full compliance with known HIPAA regulations.  However, until all such
regulations are issued and final,  they could be modified,  which may require us
to  expend  additional  resources  to  comply  with the  revised  standards.  In
addition,  given  their  novelty,  breadth  in  scope,  and  uncertainty  as  to
interpretation,   implementation  will  be  uncertain  and  the  possibility  of
inadvertently failing to meet these standards is high. Such failure could result
in fines and penalties being assessed against us or cause our business to suffer
in other ways.

     <B>Government Regulation of the Internet.</B>  Laws and regulations may be adopted
with respect to the Internet or other on-line  services  covering issues such as
user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution and characteristics and
quality of  products  and  services.  The  adoption  of any  additional  laws or
regulations  may impede the growth of the  Internet or other  on-line  services,
which could,  in turn,  decrease the demand for our  software  applications  and
services,  increase our cost of doing  business,  or  otherwise  have an adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover,
the  applicability  to the  Internet of existing  laws in various  jurisdictions
governing issues such as property  ownership,  sales and other taxes,  libel and
personal  privacy  is  uncertain  and may take  years to  resolve.  Any such new
legislation  or  regulation,  the  application  of  laws  and  regulations  from
jurisdictions  whose  laws  do  not  currently  apply  to our  business,  or the
application  of existing laws and  regulations  to the Internet and other online
services  could  have a  material  adverse  effect  on our  business,  financial
condition and results of operations.

     <B>Confidentiality and Security.</B> While HIPAA regulations,  as discussed above,
are  expected to  generally  govern in this area,  regulation  by various  state
agencies  may also still  apply to  confidentiality  of patient  records and the
circumstances  under which such  records may be released  for  inclusion  in our
databases.   Such  regulations  govern  both  the  disclosure  and  the  use  of
confidential  patient medical records.  Such regulation could require holders of
such information,  including us, to implement costly security  measures,  or may
materially  restrict the ability of health care providers to submit  information
from patient records using our  applications.  We utilize an  architecture  that
incorporates encrypted messaging, firewalls and other security methods to assure
customers of a compliant and secure computing environment.  However, no security
procedure  is failsafe,  and we will always be subject to a potential  breach of
security by wither  determined  human effort or inadvertent  human error.  If we
were  found  liable  for any such  breach,  such  finding  could have a material
adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

     <B>False  Claims Act.</B>  Under the federal  False Claims Act,  liability  may be
imposed on any  individual or entity who knowingly  submits or  participates  in
submitting  claims for  payment  to the  federal  government  which are false or
fraudulent, or which contain false or misleading information. Liability may also
be imposed on any  individual or entity who knowingly make or use a false record
or statement to avoid an obligation to pay the federal government. Certain state
laws impose similar liability.  The federal government or private whistleblowers
may bring claims under the federal  False Claims Act. If we are found liable for
a violation of the federal  False  Claims Act, or any similar  state law, due to
our processing of claims for Medicaid and Medicare, it may result in substantial
civil  and  criminal  penalties.  In  addition,  we  could  be  prohibited  from
processing Medicaid or Medicare claims for payment.

     <B>Government Investigations.</B> There is significant scrutiny by law enforcement
authorities,  the U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services  Office  of
Inspector  General,  the courts and Congress of  agreements  between  healthcare
providers and suppliers or other  contractors  that have a potential to increase
utilization of government  health care  resources.  In particular,  scrutiny has
been  placed on the  coding of  claims  for  payment,  incentive  programs  that
increase use of a product and  contracted  billing  arrangements.  Investigators
have  demonstrated  a  willingness  to look beyond the  formalities  of business
arrangements  to determine the  underlying  purposes of payments  between health
care  participants.  Although,  to our  knowledge,  neither  we  nor  any of our
customers is the subject of any investigation,  we cannot tell whether we or our
customers will be the target of governmental investigations in the future.

     <B>Federal and State  Anti-Kickback  Laws.</B>  Provisions of the Social  Security
Act,  which  are  commonly  known as the  Federal  Anti-Kickback  Law,  prohibit
knowingly or willfully,  directly or  indirectly,  paying or offering to pay, or
soliciting  or  receiving,  any  remuneration  in exchange  for the  referral of
patients  to  a  person  participating  in,  or  for  the  order,   purchase  or
recommendation  of items or  services  that are  subject  to  reimbursement  by,
Medicare,  Medicaid  and similar  other  federal or state  healthcare  programs.
Violations may result in civil and criminal  sanctions and penalties.  If any of
our health care  communications or electronic commerce activities were deemed to
be inconsistent with the Federal  Anti-Kickback Law or with state  anti-kickback
or illegal  remuneration  laws, we could face civil and criminal penalties or be
barred from such  activities.  Further,  we could be required to restructure our
existing  or  planned  sponsorship  compensation   arrangements  and  electronic
commerce activities in a manner that could harm our business.

     If compliance with government  regulation of healthcare  becomes costly and
difficult for us and our  customers,  we may not be able to grow our business as
we plan, or we may have to abandon a product or service we are providing or plan
to provide altogether.

<B>Employees</B>

     As of March 15,  2002,  we had 28  full-time  and no  part-time  employees.
Fifteen of these  employees are involved in software  programming and support of
the Cymedix network,  7 are involved in the marketing and deployment of product,
and 6 are involved in our administrative and financial  operations.  None of our
employees is represented by a labor union, and we have never  experienced a work
stoppage.  We believe our relationship  with our employees to be good.  However,
our ability to achieve our financial and operational objectives depends in large
part upon our  continuing  ability to attract,  integrate,  retain and  motivate
highly  qualified  sales,  technical  and  managerial  personnel,  and  upon the
continued  service  of  our  senior  management  and  key  sales  and  technical
personnel.  See  "Executive  Officers  Compensation  -  Employment  Agreements."
Competition  for such qualified  personnel in our industry and the  geographical
locations of our offices is intense,  particularly  in software  development and
technical personnel.

<A NAME="properties"></A>
<B>ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES</B>

     Our principal  executive office is located at 420 Lexington  Avenue,  Suite
1830, New York, NY 10170.  In addition,  we have three other offices  located in
Colorado, California and Georgia.

                                 Square           Expiration             2002
                                Footage              Date             Rent (est.)
                               -----------        ------------        -----------
   New York, New York            10,495             1-31-05            $212,526
   Greenwood Village              5,236             7-31-03            $ 98,000
    Colorado(1)
   Agoura Hills, California       3.474             3-31-07            $ 69,305
   Marietta, Georgia              2,060             2-28-04            $ 31,930
                               ===========                            ===========
                       Totals:   21,265                                $411,761


(1)  In connection with the sale of our remaining  staffing business in 2000, we
     subleased  2,735 square feet of this space to the  purchaser,  who will pay
     $50,000 in rent  annually  for such space  until July 31,  2002.  We remain
     jointly liable for rental payments on such subleased space until the end of
     the  sublease  and  liable  for all the  space  until  the end of the lease
     indicated above.

     In addition to the properties  listed in the above table,  the Company also
is liable for rental  payments  on an old lease in East  Brunswick,  New Jersey,
encompassing  7888  square feet of vacant  office  space.  The  monthly  rent is
approximately  $12,500,  with a  lease  termination  date  of  April  30,  2003.
Management is currently  engaged in negotiations  with the landlord to terminate
this agreement.

     We  believe  these  facilities  will  be  suitable  for our  needs  for the
foreseeable future. We have insured all of our properties at the levels required
to meet our lease  obligations.  We  believe  that these  levels are  reasonable
measures of adequate levels of insurance.

<A NAME="legal"></A>
<B>ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS</B>

     On August 7, 2001, a former  officer of the Company  filed an action in the
District Court of Arapahoe County, Colorado,  against the Company and its former
President and CEO, John Yeros,  entitled  <U>Barry J. McDonald v. Medix  Resources,
Inc f/k/a/  International  Nursing  Services,  Inc.  and John  Yeros</U>,  (Case No.
01CV2119).  The plaintiff alleges (1) breach of an employment agreement, a stock
option  agreement and the related  stock option plan,  (2) breach of the duty of
good faith and fair  dealing,  and (3) violation of the Colorado Wage Claim Act.
Plaintiff seeks  unspecified  damages to be determined at jury trial,  including
interest, punitive damages,  plaintiff's attorneys fees, and a 50% penalty under
the Colorado Wage Claim Act. The Company's  and its  co-defendant  have answered
the plaintiff's complaint, denying any liability. The Court has set discovery to
be  completed  by July 31,  2002,  and the trial to begin on  September 9, 2002.
Management of the Company intends to vigorously  defend this action and does not
expect any  resolution of this matter to have a material  adverse  effect on the
Company's results of operations or financial condition.

     On December 17, 2001,  Plaintiff,  Vision  Management  Consulting,  L.L.C.,
filed suit against us in the Superior Court of New Jersey,  Law Division - Essex
County, entitled <U>Vision Management Consulting,  L.L.C v. Medix Resources,  Inc.</U>,
Docket No.  ESX-L-11438-01.  The complaint  alleges  breach of contract,  unjust
enrichment,   breach  of  the  duty  of  good   faith  and  fair   dealing   and
misrepresentations  by us in connection with a negotiated  settlement agreement,
which  had  resulted  from  claims  between  the  parties  arising  out  of  the
termination of operations by our Automated  Design Concepts  division earlier in
2001.  Plaintiff seeks unspecified damages to be proven at jury trial,  together
with attorneys fees, costs of suit and interest on the judgment, as well as such
further  relief as the Court  deems just and  equitable.  We have  answered  the
plaintiff's  complaint,  denying any liability and setting forth a  counterclaim
seeking the award to us of our costs of  defending  this action and such further
relief as the Court  deems just and  proper.  Management  intends to  vigorously
defend this action and does not expect any  resolution  of this matter to have a
material  adverse  effect on the  Company's  results of  operations or financial
condition.  The Court has appointed a mediator for the case to try to facilitate
a settlement between the parties.

     From time to time,  the Company is involved in claims and  litigation  that
arise out of the normal course of business.  Currently,  other than as discussed
above,  there are no pending  matters  that in  Management's  judgment  might be
considered  potentially  material to us. Management does not believe that any of
the  litigation  described  above  will have a  material  adverse  effect on the
Company.
<A NAME="submission"></A>
<B>ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS</B>

     The following matters were submitted to our shareholders at the 2001 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders held on October 16, 2001:

<U>Proposal #1</U>          Election of Directors
                                                 <B>For              Withheld</B>
                       Joan E. Herman        45,231,857            181,986
                     Patrick W. Jeffries     45,231,857            181,986
                       John R. Prufeta       45,231,857            181,986
                        Guy L. Scalzi        45,232,126            181,717


<U>Proposal #2</U> Ratification and approval of the Board of Director's increase in the
            number of shares authorized and reserved for issuance under the
            Company's 1999 Stock Option Plan from 10 million shares of the Company's
            common stock to 13 million shares.

                       <B>For           Against        Abstained       Not Voted</B>
                   11,371,866       1,944,632        251,501       31,845,844

<U>Proposal #3</U>  Ratification  of the  selection  by the Board of Directors of Ehrhardt
             Keefe  Steiner  &amp;  Hottman  PC  as  the  Company's   independent   public
             accountants,  to audit the  financial  statements  of the Company for the
             2001 fiscal year.

                       <B>For           Against        Abstained</B>
                   45,117,923        171,218         124,702


                                     <B>PART II</B>

<A NAME="market"></A>
<B>ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER  MATTERS</B>

     On April 6,  2000,  our common  stock was  listed and began  trading on The
American  Stock  Exchange under the symbol "MXR." Prior to that our common stock
was traded on the OTC  Bulletin  Board under the symbol  "MDIX."  The  following
table shows high ask and low bid price  information for each quarter in the last
two calendar years as reported by Prophet Information Services, Inc., a provider
of online  historical  stock price data for all major U. S. securities  markets.
Such quotations reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-ups,  markdowns
or commissions, and may not necessarily represent actual transactions.  On March
15, 2001, the last sales price was reported to be $0.55.

                                Common Stock Price
                                ------------------
                                 High        Low
                                 ----        ---
2000
- -----
    First Quarter                $9.50      $1.88
    Second Quarter                4.87       1.68
    Third Quarter                 3.62       1.06
    Fourth Quarter                2.37        .75

2001
- ----
   First Quarter                 $1.62        .52
   Second Quarter                 1.49        .41
   Third Quarter                  1.36        .50
   Fourth Quarter                 1.09        .49


     There were  approximately  400 holders of record (and  approximately  9,000
beneficial  owners)  of our  common  stock as of March 15,  2002.  The number of
record  holders  includes  shareholders  who may hold  stock for the  benefit of
others.

     We do  not  expect  to  pay  any  dividends  on  its  common  stock  in the
foreseeable future.  Management  currently intends to retain all available funds
for the development of its business and for use as working capital.  The payment
of dividends on the common stock is subject to our prior  payment of all accrued
and unpaid dividends on any preferred stock outstanding.

<A NAME="selected"></A>
<B>ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA</B>

     The following  consolidated selected financial data, at the end of the last
five fiscal years, should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial
Statements  and related Notes thereto  appearing  elsewhere in this Report.  The
consolidated selected financial data are derived from our consolidated financial
statements  which have been audited by Ehrhardt  Keefe Steiner &amp; Hottman PC, our
independent auditors, as indicated in their report included herein. The selected
financial  data  provided  below is not  necessarily  indicative  of our  future
results of operations or financial performance.

                            2001         2000(1)         1999          1998(2)         1997
                      -------------  ------------  --------------  ---------------  ------------

Operating revenues         29,000       326,000         24,000       17,412,000     24,875,000

Software research       1,075,000       685,000        596,000          780,000              0
 and development
 costs (3)

(Loss) or profit      (10,636,000)   (6,344,000)    (5,422,000)        (515,000)       610,000
 from continuing
 operations

(Loss) or profit             (.21)         (.15)          (.29)            (.15)           .06
 from continuing
 operations per share

Total assets            3,101,000     5,089,000      4,629,000        5,175,000     10,140,000

Working Capital        (1,404,000)      394,000        644,000       (2,612,000)      (329,000)

Long-term obligations           0             0        400,000                0              0

Stockholders' Equity    1,345,000     4,202,000      2,376,000         (218,000)     4,504,000
 (Deficit)

The  following  is  supplementary   information  related  to  software  development
expenses

                        2001       2000(1)        1999        1998(2)      1997
                    -----------  -----------  ----------- ------------ -------------
Software
 Development Costs:

Software research    1,075,000      685,000     596,000      780,000        0
 and development
 costs (3)

Capitalized            434,000      495,000           0            0        0
 software
 development costs

Total Software       1,512,000    1,180,000     596,000      780,000        0
 development costs
 incurred


(1)  In February of 2000, we disposed of our remaining medical staffing business
     and became  solely a  developer  of software  for our own use in  providing
     Internet based communications for the medical services industry.
(2)  In January of 1998, we acquired the Cymedix software business and began the
     process of disposing of our medical staffing business.
(3)  Excludes amortization of previously capitalized development software  costs
     which  are  included  in  cost  of  services in the  Company's Statement of
     Operations

<A NAME="management"></A>
<B>ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL  CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATION</B>

<B>Overview</B>

     We are an information  technology  company  headquartered in New York City,
with  offices in Agoura  Hills,  California,  Greenwood  Village,  Colorado  and
Marietta, Georgia. We specialize in the development, marketing and management of
software and  connectivity  solutions  for  clinical  and business  transactions
within the healthcare industry Through our wholly owned subsidiary, Cymedix Lynx
Corporation,  a Colorado  corporation,  we have developed  Cymedix(R),  a unique
healthcare  communication  technology  product.  Created by a team of healthcare
professionals, Cymedix software provides healthcare institutions, such as health
plans, insurers and hospitals,  as well as practicing physicians,  with a set of
non-invasive  technology tools to enable Internet-based health care transactions
among all parties.

     Implementation  of the Cymedix software suite promises to speed and improve
the efficacy of daily  interactions  between health caregivers and their staffs,
other ancillary providers (such as labs or pharmacy benefit managers), insurance
companies,  hospitals, Integrated Delivery Networks (IDNs) and Health Management
Organizations  (HMOs).  We believe  that the  market  for  robust and  practical
healthcare solutions will grow rapidly, and that segment growth will continue to
accelerate as the joined emphases of consumer  choice,  quality,  administrative
service  and cost  containment  ratchets up demand for ever more  efficient  and
user-friendly methods of delivering quality healthcare.

<B>Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks</B>

     This  Report  contains  forward-looking  statements,  which  mean that such
statements  relate to events or  transactions  that have not yet  occurred,  our
expectations  or estimates for our future  operations and economic  performance,
our  growth  strategies  or  business  plans or other  events  that have not yet
occurred.  Such  statements  can be  identified  by the  use of  forward-looking
terminology  such as "might," "may," "will,"  "could,"  "expect,"  "anticipate,"
"estimate,"  "likely," "believe," or "continue" or the negative thereof or other
variations thereon or comparable  terminology.  The following paragraphs contain
discussions  of  important  factors  that should be  considered  by  prospective
investors for their potential impact on forward-looking  statements  included in
this Report. These important factors,  among others, may cause actual results to
differ  materially  and adversely  from the results  expressed or implied by the
forward-looking statements.

     We  have   reported  net  losses  of   ($10,636,000),   ($5,415,000),   and
($4,847,000)  for the years  ended  December  31,  2001,  December  31, 2000 and
December 31, 1999,  respectively.  At December 31, 2001,  we had an  accumulated
deficit of  ($33,412,000),  and negative working capital of ($1,404,000).  These
factors  and other  concerns  have  caused our  accountants  to include a "going
concern"  exception  in their  report  in  connection  with  their  audit of our
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2001.

     We expect to continue to experience  losses,  in the near term,  until such
time  as our  Cymedix(R)software  products  can be  successfully  deployed  with
customers  and produce  revenue.  The current  operation of our business and our
ability to continue to develop and market our  Cymedix  software  products  will
depend upon our ability to obtain additional  financing.  At present, we are not
receiving  any  significant  revenues  from  the  sale of our  Cymedix  software
products.  We are  attempting  to meet our  current  cash flow  needs by raising
capital in the private  debt and equity  markets  and  through  the  exercise of
currently  outstanding  warrants.  The  development and marketing of the Cymedix
software  products  require  substantial  capital  investments.  There can be no
assurance that  additional  investments or financings will be available to us as
needed to support the  development of Cymedix  products.  Failure to obtain such
capital on a timely basis could result in lost business opportunities,  the sale
of the Cymedix  business at a distressed  price or the financial  failure of our
company.

     We  have  recently  entered  into  a  secured  financing  arrangement.  See
"BUSINESS - Recent  Developments." The use of secured  borrowings  increases the
risk of loss of the assets used to secure the borrowing.  If an event of default
occurs under the security agreement, the lender will be able to foreclose on the
assets used to secure the borrowing and sell those assets to the highest bidder.
In  addition,  it is  generally  believed  that  foreclosure  sales,  which  are
"distress  sales",  will not maximize the proceeds  that are paid for the assets
being  sold.  The loan we  entered  into is  secured  by the grant of a security
interest in all Medix's intellectual property,  including its patent, copyrights
and trademarks.  While Medix can cure a payment default by the forced conversion
of the loan into its common stock, a bankruptcy or similar event of default will
trigger the foreclosure provision of the security agreement.

     We are still in the process of gaining  experience  in  marketing  software
products,  providing software support services,  evaluating demand for products,
financing a software business and dealing with government regulation of software
products.  While we are putting together a team of experienced executives,  they
have come from  different  backgrounds  and may require  some time to develop an
efficient  operating structure and corporate culture for our company. We believe
our structure of multiple offices serves our customers well, but it does present
an  additional  challenge  in  building  our  corporate  culture  and  operating
structure.

     Our products are in the integration and deployment  stages, and have proven
their  effectiveness  with some sponsors.  We have not yet proven our technology
with a significant number of physicians. As a developer of software products, we
will be required to anticipate and adapt to evolving industry  standards and new
technological   developments.   The  market  for  our   software   products   is
characterized by continued and rapid technological advances in both hardware and
software   development,   requiring   ongoing   expenditures  for  research  and
development,  and  timely  introduction  of new  products  and  enhancements  to
existing products.  The establishment of standards is largely a function of user
acceptance. Therefore, such standards are subject to change. Our future success,
if any, will depend in part upon our ability to enhance  existing  products,  to
respond  effectively  to technology  changes,  and to introduce new products and
technologies  to meet  the  evolving  needs  of its  clients  in the  healthcare
information systems market.

     The  success of our  products  and  services in  generating  revenue may be
subject to the quality and completeness of the data that is generated and stored
by  the  physician  or  other  healthcare  professional  and  entered  into  our
interconnectivity  systems,  including  the  failure  to  input  appropriate  or
accurate information. Failure or unwillingness by the healthcare professional to
accommodate the required information quality may result in the payor refusing to
pay Medix for its services.

     The  introduction of software  products in that market has been slow due to
the large number of small  practitioners who are resistant to change, as well as
the  financial  investment  or workflow  interruptions  associated  with change,
particularly  in a period of rising  pressure to reduce costs in the market.  We
are currently devoting significant resources toward the development of products.
There can be no assurance that we will successfully  complete the development of
these products in a timely  fashion or that our current or future  products will
satisfy the needs of the healthcare  information systems market.  Further, there
can be no assurance that products or  technologies  developed by others will not
adversely affect our competitive position or render our products or technologies
noncompetitive or obsolete.

     Certain  of our  products  provide  applications  that  relate  to  patient
medication histories and treatment plans. Any failure by our products to provide
accurate, secure and timely information could result in product liability claims
against us by our clients or their affiliates or patients. We maintain insurance
that we believe  currently is adequate to protect against claims associated with
the use of our  products,  but  there  can be no  assurance  that our  insurance
coverage would  adequately  cover any claim  asserted  against us. The limits of
that coverage is $2,000,000 in the aggregate and  $1,000,000 per  occurrence.  A
successful  claim brought  against us in excess of our insurance  coverage could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition
or business.  Even unsuccessful  claims could result in the expenditure of funds
in litigation, as well as diversion of management time and resources.

     We have been granted  certain  patent  rights,  trademarks  and  copyrights
relating to its software  business.  However,  patent and intellectual  property
legal issues for software  programs,  such as the Cymedix products,  are complex
and currently  evolving.  Since patent applications are secret until patents are
issued,  in the United States,  or published,  in other countries,  we cannot be
sure that we are first to file any patent application. In addition, there can be
no assurance that competitors,  many of which have far greater resources than we
do, will not apply for and obtain  patents that will  interfere with our ability
to develop or market product ideas that we have originated. Further, the laws of
certain foreign countries do not provide the protection to intellectual property
that is provided in the United  States,  and may limit our ability to market our
products overseas.  We cannot give any assurance that the scope of the rights we
have are broad enough to fully protect our Cymedix software from infringement.

     Litigation  or  regulatory  proceedings  may be  necessary  to protect  our
intellectual  property  rights,  such as the scope of our patent.  In fact,  the
computer   software   industry  in  general  is   characterized  by  substantial
litigation.  Such  litigation and regulatory  proceedings are very expensive and
could be a significant  drain on our resources and divert resources from product
development.  There is no assurance that we will have the financial resources to
defend our patent rights or other  intellectual  property from  infringement  or
claims of  invalidity.  We have been  notified by a party that it  believes  our
pharmacy  product may infringe on patents that it holds. We have retained patent
counsel who has made a preliminary investigation and determined that our product
does not infringe on the  identified  patents.  At this time no legal action has
been instituted.

     We also rely upon unpatented proprietary technology and no assurance can be
given  that  others  will not  independently  develop  substantially  equivalent
proprietary  information  and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose
our  proprietary  technology or that we can  meaningfully  protect our rights in
such unpatented proprietary technology.  We will use our best efforts to protect
such  information and techniques,  however,  no assurance can be given that such
efforts will be  successful.  The failure to protect our  intellectual  property
could cause us to lose  substantial  revenues and to fail to reach our financial
potential over the long term.

     The healthcare and medical  services  industry in the United States is in a
period  of  rapid  change  and  uncertainty.  Governmental  programs  have  been
proposed,  and some adopted, from time to time, to reform various aspects of the
U.S.  healthcare  delivery system.  Some of these programs contain  proposals to
increase  government  involvement in healthcare,  lower  reimbursement rates and
otherwise  change the operating  environment  for our  customers.  Particularly,
HIPAA and the regulations that are being promulgated  thereunder are causing the
healthcare industry to change its procedures and incur substantial cost in doing
so.  Although  we expect  these  regulations  to have the  beneficial  effect of
spurring adoption of our software products, we cannot predict with any certainty
what  impact,  if any,  these and future  healthcare  reforms  might have on our
software business. See "BUSINESS - Governmental Regulation."

     In connection with our equity line of credit financing,  we have registered
9,500,000  additional  shares  with  the SEC for  sale by the  providers  of the
financing,  of which 5,031,371  shares remain available for issuance as of March
15,  2002.  The  resale of the  common  stock that may be issued by us under the
equity line of credit will  substantially  increase  the number of our  publicly
traded shares ("float").  If existing  shareholders perceive that this increased
float is not  accompanied  by a  commensurate  increase in value to the Company,
then shareholder  value--real or perceived--will be diluted. Such dilution could
cause holders of our shares of common stock to sell,  thus  depressing the price
of our common stock. Therefore,  the very existence of the equity line financing
could depress the market price of our common stock.

     The resale of the  common  stock that will be issued by us under our equity
line of credit financing could depress the market price of our common stock. The
terms of the equity line provide that we will sell shares of our common stock to
the  providers of the financing at 91% of the average of the three lowest of the
daily  volume-weighted  average prices of our common stock during the 22-trading
day period immediately before our request for the advance.  Therefore, since all
of the shares that are issued by us in connection with advances under the equity
line  financing  will have a "built-in"  discount of at least 9% upon  issuance,
this could  produce an impetus  for the  providers  of the equity line to resell
their  shares  sooner or in greater  quantity  than they would  otherwise.  Such
resale could have the effect of  depressing  our share price.  At March 15, 2002
the Company had issued  2,748,552  shares to the equity line  providers,  all of
which has been sold into the  public  market.  Trading  activity  related to the
liquidation of these shares shown little  correlation  to downward  movements in
share price.

     As of March 15, 2002, we had 58,386,516 shares of common stock outstanding.
As of that date, approximately 24,117,525 shares were issuable upon the exercise
of  outstanding  options,  warrants  or  other  rights,  and the  conversion  of
preferred stock. Most of these shares will be immediately saleable upon exercise
or  conversion  under  registration  statements  we have filed with the SEC. The
exercise  prices of options,  warrants or other  rights to acquire  common stock
presently  outstanding range from $0.19 per share to $4.97 per share. During the
respective terms of the outstanding options, warrants, preferred stock and other
outstanding  derivative  securities,  the holders are given the  opportunity  to
profit from a rise in the market price of the common stock,  and the exercise of
any options, warrants or other rights may dilute the book value per share of the
common stock and put  downward  pressure on the price of the common  stock.  The
existence of the options,  conversion  rights,  or any outstanding  warrants may
adversely affect the terms on which we may obtain  additional  equity financing.
Moreover,  the holders of such securities are likely to exercise their rights to
acquire common stock at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain capital
on terms  more  favorable  than  could  be  obtained  through  the  exercise  or
conversion of such securities.  See also the impact of our equity line of credit
financing discussed in the following paragraphs.

     As with any business,  growth in absolute  amounts of selling,  general and
administrative  expenses or the occurrence of  extraordinary  events could cause
actual results to vary materially and adversely from the results contemplated by
the  forward-looking  statements.  Budgeting and other management  decisions are
subjective  in many  respects and thus  susceptible  to incorrect  decisions and
periodic   revisions   based  on  actual   experience   and  external   business
developments,  the impact of which may cause us to alter our marketing,  capital
expenditures  or other  budgets,  which  may,  in turn,  affect  our  results of
operation.  Assumptions relating to the foregoing involve judgments with respect
to, among other things, future economic,  competitive and market conditions, and
future business  decisions,  all of which are difficult or impossible to predict
accurately  and many of which are beyond our  control.  Although  we believe the
assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions  could prove  inaccurate,  and therefore,  there can be no assurance
that  the  results  contemplated  in  the  forward-looking  statements  will  be
realized.

     In light of the significant  uncertainties  inherent in the forward-looking
information  included herein,  the inclusion of such  information  should not be
regarded as a  representation  by us or any other person that our  objectives or
plans for the Company will be achieved.

<B>Results of Operation</B>

<I>Comparison of years ended December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000</I>

     Total revenues  decreased  approximately  $297,000 from $326,000 in 2000 to
$29,000 in 2001. The decrease is due to a decrease in Cymedix pilot program fees
billed  during 2001 of $189,000,  and a decrease in ADC revenue of $108,000 as a
result of discontinuing that business segment.

     Direct costs of services increased  approximately  $33,000 from $180,000 in
2000 to $213,000 in 2000.  The increase is due to  amortization  of  capitalized
software development costs related to Cymedix.

     Software  development  costs increased  approximately  57% from $685,000 in
2000 to  $1,075,000  in 2000,  as a  result  of costs  incurred  in the  ongoing
development of the Cymedix product line.

     Selling,  general and administrative  expenses  decreased  approximately 3%
from $5,925,000 in 2000 to $5,746,000 in 2001. The decrease is attributable to a
company wide salary reduction program that was undertaken early in 2001.

     During  2001,  the  Company  recorded   impairment  expense  of  $1,111,000
resulting from the  discontinuance  of its Automated  Design  Concepts  division
which  totaled  $443,000,  to focus staff  resources  on the  Company's  primary
technology,  and  the  cancellation  of its  Zirmed  license  totaling  $668,000
agreement which was a result of management's assessment that the Company's needs
would be better served by superior technology.

     Other  income  decreased  approximately  $151,000  from 2000 to 2001.  This
increase  reflects a decline in  interest  income that had been earned on excess
cash  received  and  invested  during  2000 from the  exercise  of  options  and
warrants.

     Interest expense  increased  $61,000 from 2000 to 2001 due to interest that
was paid on a convertible promissory note issued during 2001.

     Financing  costs of $2,428,000 were incurred in 2001 due to warrants issued
and an in-the money  conversion  feature in connection with the convertible debt
credit  facility of $581,000,  a warrant issued in the private equity  placement
valued at  $113,000,  and shares  issued in the  conversion  of debt and related
equity  share  issuances  at below  market  prices  which  resulted  in costs of
$1,734,000.

     Net  gain  (loss)  from  discontinued  operations  decreased  approximately
$929,000  from $929,000 in 2000 to $0 in 2001,  due to the sale during  February
2000 of the remaining assets of the company's staffing operations.

     Net loss  increased  approximately  $5,221,000  from  $5,415,000 in 2000 to
$10,636,000 in 2001 due to the reasons discussed above.

<I>Comparison of years ended December 31, 2000 and December 31, 1999</I>

     Total  revenues  increased  approximately  $302,000 from $24,000 in 1999 to
$326,000 in 2000.  The  increase  is due to Cymedix  pilot  program  fees billed
during  2000,  and ADC  revenue  from the date of  acquisition  (March 8,  2000)
through December 31, 2000.

     Direct costs of services  increased  approximately  $178,000 from $2,000 in
1999 to $180,000 in 2000.  The increase is due to  amortization  of  capitalized
software  development  costs  related to Cymedix of  $124,000,  as well as costs
associated  with ADC revenue of $16,000,  from the period  March 8, 2000 through
December 31, 2000.

     Software  development  costs increased  approximately  15% from $596,000 in
1999 to  $685,000  in  2000,  as a  result  of  costs  incurred  in the  ongoing
development  of the Cymedix  product line.  During the third quarter of 2000 the
company began capitalizing and amortizing software development costs.

     Selling,  general and administrative  expenses increased  approximately 57%
from  $3,777,000 in 1999 to $5,925,000 in 2000. The increase is due primarily to
an increase in executive  management and operational salaries and benefits as of
$1,088,000,  as well as  consulting  fees  related to employee  recruitment  and
placement of $272,000, and legal, accounting and advisory services of $248,000.

     Net loss from operations increased approximately $2,113,000 from $4,351,000
in 1999 to $6,464,000  in 2000.  This increase is primarily due to the increases
in selling, general and administrative expenses described above.

     Other  income  increased  approximately  $156,000  from 1999 to 2000.  This
increase  reflects  interest  income on excess cash received and invested during
the year from the exercise of options and warrants.

     Interest expense decreased 79%, or approximately $161,000 from 1999 to 2000
due to  interest  that was paid and  imputed on a  convertible  promissory  note
during 1999.

     Net loss from continuing operations increased approximately $1,796,000 from
$4,548,000  in 1999 to  $6,344,000  in 2000 due to all of the reasons  discussed
above.

     Net gain (loss) from discontinued  operations increased  approximately 411%
or  $1,228,000  from  $(299,000)  in 1999 to $929,000  in 2000,  due to the sale
during  February  2000  of  the  remaining  assets  of  the  company's  staffing
operations.

     Net  loss  increased  approximately  $568,000  from  $4,847,000  in 1999 to
$5,415,000 in 2000 due to the reasons discussed above.

<B>Liquidity and Capital Resources</B>

     We had $8,000 in cash as of December  31, 2001  compared to  $1,007,000  in
cash as of December 31, 2000 and $1,229,000 as of December 31, 1999. Net working
capital  was  ($1,404,000)  as of December  31, 2001  compared to $394,000 as of
December 31, 2000 and $644,000 as of December  31, 1999.  During 2001,  net cash
used in operating  activities  was  $5,397,000  compared to  $5,173,000 in 2000.
During 2001, we raised $1,500,000 from a convertible note financing,  $1,200,000
from private placements of our common stock,  $1,510,000 from our equity line of
credit and $369,000  from  exercise of options and  warrants.  During  2000,  we
raised  $6,091,000  from the exercise of options and  warrants.  During 1999, we
raised  $4,112,000  from private  placements of preferred  stock,  $500,000 from
issuance of a convertible promissory note, and $150,000 from exercise of options
and warrants.

     Subsequent   to  year-end  and  through   March  15,   2002,   we  received
approximately $3,800 from the exercise of options and warrants,  $1,000,000 from
a  secured  convertible  note  financing,  and  $883,000  from our  equity  line
financing.  As of March 15, 2002, we had  outstanding  warrants  exercisable for
5,136,000  shares of  common  stock,  exercisable  at $0.50  per  share,  with a
aggregate  exercise price of $2,568,000  which are callable for $.01 per warrant
upon thirty days written  notice.  However,  no  assurance  can be given that if
called such warrants  would be exercised.  From time to time,  members of senior
management  have  made  short-term  loans  to us to  meet  payroll  obligations.
However, there is no commitment to continue that practice.

     We will  continue  to have  financing  costs  charged to our  statement  of
operations  in the  future  for  convertible  debt we  issue  with  in-the-money
conversion features.

     Currently, we are funding our development and deployment activities through
an equity line of credit financing.  Draws under this financing are triggered by
a "Put Notice"  (advance  request)  initiated by ourselves  each time we wish to
draw funds. The financing  investors are committed to accept the advance request
provided  certain  conditions  are met, some of which may be waived by agreement
among the parties.  Such advance request  obligates us to issue to the investors
shares  of our  common  stock  at a  discount  to  market  which is fixed in the
contract.  The shares are  immediately  re-saleable in the public markets by the
investors.  As of March 15, 2002, we had received  $2,584,910 in advances,  from
which  offering  expenses of $191,278 was paid under the  financing,  and we had
issued to the  investors  4,468,629  shares of our common stock  relating to the
advances  and an  additional  542,847  shares  to their  affiliates  as fees for
arranging the equity line  facility.  The shares  issued  pursuant to the equity
line advances to date have been priced from $0.46 to $0.77 per share.

     We expect to  continue to  experience  loses and  negative  cash flows from
operations,  in the near term, until such time as we are deployed on physicians'
desktops in  sufficient  numbers to cover our overhead The current  operation of
our  business  and our  ability to  continue  to further  develop and deploy our
Cymedix  software  products  will depend  upon our ability to obtain  additional
financing.  At present,  we are not receiving any significant  revenues from the
sale of our Cymedix  software  products.  We are  attempting to meet our current
cash flow needs by raising  capital in the private  debt and equity  markets and
through the exercise of currently  outstanding  warrants.  The  development  and
marketing  of  the  Cymedix  software  products  require   substantial   capital
investments.  There can be no assurance that additional funding, if needed, will
be  available  on terms  acceptable  to us, or at all.  Failure  to obtain  such
capital on a timely basis could result in lost business opportunities,  the sale
of the Cymedix  business at a distressed  price or the financial  failure of our
company.
<A NAME="quan"></A>
<B>ITEM 7A.       QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK</B>

     The  Company  does not hold or  engage in  transactions  with  market  risk
sensitive instruments

<A NAME="financial"></A>
<B>ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA</B>

     Attached hereto and filed as a part of this Form 10-K are our  Consolidated
Financial Statements, beginning on page F-1.

<A NAME="changes"></A>
<B>ITEM 9.     CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE</B>

      None




                                    <B>PART III</B>

<A NAME="directors"></A>
<B>ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT</B>

<B>Directors and Executive Officers</B>

     Our directors and executive  officers,  as of the March 15, 2002, and their
biographical information are set forth below:

         <B>Name               Date of Birth          Position                   Director Since</B>
- ------------------------- ----------------   -------------------------       -----------------


John R. Prufeta (1)(4)(5)     7/1/60          President, Chief Executive           1999
                                              Officer and a Director

Louis E. Hyman                1/15/68         Executive Vice President and          N.A.
                                              Chief Technology Officer

Patricia A. Minicucci         4/1/49          Executive Vice President for          N.A.
                                              Operations

Gary L. Smith                 6/2/54          Executive Vice President and          N.A.
                                              Chief Financial Officer

Brian R. Ellacott             3/8/57          Senior Vice President and             N.A.
                                              Division CEO, Southeast
                                              Region

John T. Lane (1)(2)(3)(4)     4/13/42         Director and Chairman of             1999
                                              The Board

Samuel H. Havens (4)(5)       6/19/43         Director and Chair of the            1999
                                              Nominating Committee

Joan E. Herman (2)(3)         6/2/53          Director and Chair of the            2000
                                              Audit Committee

Patrick  W. Jeffries(4)       1/25/53         Director and Chair of the            2001
                                              Finance Committee

Guy L. Scalzi(5)              7/18/46         Director                             2001


Dr. David B. Skinner (1) (3) (24/28/35        Director and Chair of the            1999
                                              Compensation Committee

(1)   Member of the Executive Committee
(2)   Member of the Audit Committee
(3)   Member of the Compensation Committee
(4)   Member of the Finance Committee
(5)   Member of Nominating Committee

     All of  the  our  executive  officers  devote  full-time  to our  company's
business and affairs. Biographical information on each current executive officer
and director is set forth below.

<B>Biographical Information</B>

<I><U>John R. Prufeta.</U></I>  Mr.  Prufeta joined the Company as a full time employee and as
its President and Chief Executive  Officer on March 1, 2000. Mr. Prufeta also is
the Chairman of the Board of the Company's Cymedix Lynx subsidiary.  He had been
appointed to the position of Chief  Executive  Officer while a consultant to the
Company in October 1999.  Prior to that he was the Managing  General  Partner of
The Creative  Group,  Creative Health  Concepts,  and TCG  Development,  and the
President and Chief Executive Officer of Creative  Management  Strategies,  Inc.
for over 11 years. Those affiliated  companies cover a wide spectrum of services
within  the  healthcare  industry.  He was  elected  to the  Company's  Board of
Directors in April 1999. A 1983 graduate of St. John's University with a B.S. in
management,  Mr. Prufeta  graduated from the Executive  Program,  OPM at Harvard
University, Graduate School of Business.

<I><U>Louis E. Hyman.</U></I> On May 14, 2001, Mr. Hyman became an officer of the Company with
the titles of Executive Vice President and Chief  Technology  Officer.  Prior to
that,  since  March 9, 2001,  he was a  consultant  to the  Company,  serving as
interim Chief Technology  Officer.  From September 1999 until joining Medix, Mr.
Hyman  was  President  and  CEO  of  Ideal  Technologies,   Inc.,  a  healthcare
integration  consulting  firm. Mr. Hyman held senior  technology  management and
executive positions with CareInsite, Inc. (from August 1999 to September 2000 as
Vice  President of  Information  Technology)  and LaPook Lear Systems Inc. (from
August 1992 to August 1999 as Vice President and Director of  Technology),  both
of which were merged into WebMD,  Inc. in September  2000.  As a result of these
transactions, Mr. Hyman maintained his position as Vice President of Information
Technology  with  WebMD  through  November  2000,  where he played a key role in
WebMD's  integration  efforts as well as  initiatives  to improve the  Company's
profitability.  He graduated Summa Cum Laude from St. John's University where he
earned a B.S. degree in Computer Science.

<U><I>Patricia  A.  Minicucci.</I></U>  In March  2000,  Ms.  Minicucci  joined the Company as
Executive  Vice  President of Operations.  Prior to joining  Medix's staff,  Ms.
Minicucci  served as Executive Vice President and a principal of Creative Health
Concepts.  In 1995,  she  founded  and was Chief  Executive  Officer of Practice
Paradigms,  an organization  serving primary care physicians.  Prior to founding
Practice Paradigms, Minicucci was Senior Vice President-Managed Care with Empire
Blue Cross Blue Shield and,  before that,  President  of the  Employee  Benefits
Division of Washington National  Corporation.  Ms. Minicucci began her career in
healthcare at CIGNA  Corporation  where she held numerous  positions,  including
President of the South Central  Division,  CIGNA Healthplan Inc.; Vice President
of the Human Resources Division,  Employee Benefits Group; Vice President of the
Human  Resources  Department,   Group  Insurance  Division;  and  Regional  Vice
President of Field Claim Operations,  Group Insurance Division. She holds a B.A.
in History from Russell Sage College.

<U><I>Gary L. Smith.</I></U>  Mr.  Smith joined the Company as Executive  Vice  President  and
Chief  Financial  Officer in December of 2000.  From 1995 to 2000, Mr. Smith was
with Provident Group, a financial  advisory firm serving companies  operating in
emerging market countries,  where he was a principal.  Previously, Mr. Smith was
an executive of American  Express  Bank,  the  international  banking arm of the
financial services  conglomerate American Express Corporation (NYSE: AXP), where
he held various senior financial positions, most recently as Senior Director and
Commercial  Banking Head,  London Branch. He holds a BS degree in Economics from
the Wharton School and an MS in Accounting and Finance from the London School of
Economics.

<U><I>Brian R. Ellacott.</I></U> In March 2000, Mr. Ellacott joined the Company as Senior Vice
President of Business  Development.  In mid-2001,  Mr. Ellacott was appointed as
the Division CEO for Southeast Region Markets.  Mr. Ellacott served as president
of Cosmetic  Surgery  Consultants  from November 1998 until March 2000,  when he
joined Medix  Resources,  Inc. From 1996 to 1998 he was executive vice president
of  Alignis  Inc.,  an  alternative   healthcare   PPO.   Before  that,  he  was
President-Bibb  Hospitality  (Atlanta) for The Bibb Company.  Mr. Ellacott began
his career in healthcare at Baxter International/American  Hospital Supply where
he held numerous  positions,  including Director of National Accounts (Chicago);
Director of  Marketing  (Australia);  Director of  Marketing  (Canada);  Systems
Manager  (Canada);  Regional  Manager  (British  Columbia);  and Product Manager
(hospital products).  He holds a B.A. in Business  Administration,  with Honors,
from Wilfrid Laurier University (Waterloo, Canada).

<U><I>John T. Lane.</I></U>  Prior to his retirement  from J.P.  Morgan &amp; Company in 1994, Mr.
Lane was head of that  firm's  U.S.  Private  Clients  Group.  He also served as
Chairman of J.P. Morgan,  Florida;  a Director of Morgan  Shareholder  Services,
J.P. Morgan of California, and Morgan Futures; and a member of the firm's Credit
Policy  committee.  Earlier,  he held a number of  positions in the J. P. Morgan
organization, which he joined in 1968. Since retiring from J.P. Morgan, Lane has
served as a consultant to various  organizations.  Mr. Lane currently  serves or
the Boards of Acme Metals  Incorporated  and  Biospecifics  Technologies  Corp.,
whose common shares are publicly  traded.  Mr. Lane holds an MBA degree from the
University of Michigan, and a BA degree from Dartmouth College.

<U><I>Samuel  H.  Havens.</I></U>  Prior to his  retirement  in 1996,  Mr.  Havens  served  as
President of Prudential  Healthcare for five years. He had begun his career with
The Prudential  Insurance  Company as a group sales  representative in 1965, and
served in various posts in Prudential  healthcare operations over three decades.
Since  retiring,  Mr.  Havens  has  served on the Board and as a  consultant  to
various  healthcare  organizations.  He is a member of the Board of  Advisors of
Temple Law School and the  Editorial  Board of Managed  Care  Quarterly.  Havens
completed  the  Executive   Program  in  Business   Administration  at  Columbia
University. He holds a JD degree from Temple Law School, a CLU from the American
College of Life Underwriters, and a BA degree from Hamilton College.

<I><U>Joan E.  Herman.</U></I>  Ms  Herman  is the  Group  President  of  WellPoint's  Senior,
Specialty,  and State  Sponsored  Programs  division and is responsible  for the
Company's  Dental,   Life  &amp;  AD&amp;D,   Pharmacy,   Behavioral  Health,   Workers'
Compensation Managed Care Services,  Senior Services, and Disability businesses.
She is also responsible for WellPoint's State Sponsored Programs,  which include
MediCal and Healthy  Families.  In 1999, a WellPoint  affiliate  entered into an
agreement with the Company to implement a pilot program for the  introduction of
Cymedix(R) software to healthcare  providers  identified by such affiliate.  Ms.
Herman serves on the Company's Board of Directors  pursuant to the terms of that
agreement.  Prior to joining  WellPoint in 1998,  Ms. Herman was the Senior Vice
President,  Strategic Development and Senior Vice President, Group Insurance for
Phoenix Home Life Mutual Insurance Company. Ms. Herman has served as chairman of
the  board of  Leadership  Greater  Hartford  and been a member  of the board of
directors of the American Academy of Actuaries,  the American  Leadership Forum,
the Hartford Ballet, the Greater Hartford Arts Council,  and the Children's Fund
of  Connecticut.  She is a member of the  American  Academy of  Actuaries  and a
Fellow of the Society of Actuaries.  Ms. Herman holds an MA in Mathematics  from
Yale  University,  an MBA from  Western  New  England  College,  and an A.B.  in
mathematics from Barnard College.

<U><I>Patrick W.  Jeffries.</I></U>  In March 2002,  Mr.  Jeffries  became the Executive  Vice
President  for IT and Central  Services of WellPoint  Health  Networks  Inc. Mr.
Jeffries  is the  founding  partner  of Health  Technology  Partners,  LLC and a
predecessor company,  which was founded in 1997 and provides consulting services
for  healthcare and  technology  companies.  From August 1997 to March 1999, Mr.
Jeffries was the CEO and Chairman of the Board of OpTx Corporation, during which
time he lead this  disease  management  company  in its  transition  from a late
development  stage  company to commercial  profitability.  From December 1995 to
July 1997,  he was  Executive  Vice  President of Salick  Health  Care,  Inc., a
national system of cancer treatment facilities.  From 1985 to 1995, Mr. Jeffries
was first an  associate  and then a partner  of  McKinsey &amp;  Company,  Inc.,  an
international   management  consulting  firm.  He  holds  an  MBA  from  Cornell
University and a BSEE from Washington University.

<U><I>Guy L. Scalzi.</I></U> Mr. Scalzi is Vice President of First Consulting Group Management
Services, LLC, a healthcare information technology consultant.  Prior to joining
that company in January 2000, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Information
Officer for New York Presbyterian  Healthcare System from April 1996 to December
1999.  From January 1995 to March 1996,  Mr. Scalzi was Director of Planning for
Information Services at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. From June 1993
to December  1994,  he was Chief  Information  Officer,  The  Hospital for Joint
Diseases,  New York  University  Medical  Center.  From  1984 to 1993,  he was a
founder and senior executive with DataEase International, Inc., an international
PC  software  development  and  marketing  company.  Mr.  Scalzi has an MBA from
Manhattan  College and a B.S.  degree from The State  University  of New York at
Oswego.

<U><I>Dr.  David  B.  Skinner.</I></U>   Dr.   Skinner  is  President   Emeritus  of  the  New
York-Presbyterian  Hospital and the New York-Presbyterian  Healthcare System. He
was Vice  Chairman/President and CEO of the Society of the New York Hospital and
its Healthcare  System and subsequently of the merged  institution for 13 years.
He is also a  professor  of  cardiothoracic  surgery  and  surgery  at the Weill
Medical  College  of  Cornell  University,  professor  of  surgery  at  Columbia
University  College of Physicians and Surgeons,  and an attending surgeon at New
York  Presbyterian  Hospital.  He was  professor  of  surgery  at Johns  Hopkins
University  School of Medicine from 1968 to 1972,  and professor and chairman of
surgery at the University of Chicago,  Pritzker  School of Medicine from 1973 to
1987.  Dr.  Skinner  has  been  awarded  numerous  honorary   degrees,   faculty
appointments,  corporate  directorships,  and domestic and international honors,
awards, and prizes. Dr. Skinner holds a BA degree,  with high distinction,  from
the University of Rochester and an MD degree, cum laude, from Yale University.

<B>Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934</B>

     Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  requires
directors  and  executive  officers,  and  persons  who own  more  than 10% of a
registered  class  of a  company's  equity  securities,  to file  with the U. S.
Securities and Exchange  Commission  initial reports of ownership and reports of
changes in ownership of the Company's common stock and other equity  securities.
Officers, directors and greater than 10% shareholders are required by Securities
and Exchange  Commission  regulations  to furnish the Company with copies of all
Section 16(a) reports they file. Based solely upon such reports, we believe that
none of such persons  failed to comply with the  requirements  of Section  16(a)
during 2001.

<A NAME="executive"></A>
<B>ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Executive Officer Compensation</B>

<B><I>Summary  Compensation  Table.</I></B>  The  following  table  sets  forth the annual and
long-term  compensation  for services in all  capacities  to the Company for the
three years ended December 31, 2001,  awarded or paid to, or earned by our Chief
Executive  Officer ("CEO") and our four other most highly  compensated  officers
(the "Named Officers").

                                                                    Long-Term
                              Annual Compensation                 Compensation
                              --------------------                ------------
                                                                   Securities
                                                                   Underlying
      Name and      Fiscal                                           Options
Principal Position   Year      Salary        Bonus      Other(1)     (Shares)
- ------------------ -------- -----------  ----------- ------------ ------------

John R. Prufeta       2001    $114,000         0                      425,000
President and CEO     2000    $120,000         0                      600,000
                      1999    $171,000(2)      0                      925,000

Louis E. Hyman,       2001    156,625(3)       0                      250,000
Executive Vice
President and
Chief Technology
Officer

Patricia A.                   $197,000         0                      175,000
Minicucci           2001      $163,846         0                      400,000
Executive Vice
President for       2000
Operations

Gary L. Smith,        2001    $197,000         0                      175,000
Executive Vice        2000        $2,430       0                      250,000
President and
Chief Financial
Officer

Brian R. Ellacott     2001    $165,000         0                      175,000
Senior Vice           2000    $125,769                                150,000
President


(1)  Other  annual  compensation,  except  as  noted,  is made up of  automobile
     allowances,  and disability and health insurance premiums,  in amounts less
     than 10% of the officer's annual salary plus bonus.
(2)  During 1999, Mr. Prufeta served as a consultant to the Company  pursuant to
     a  consulting  agreement  between the Company  and his  employer,  Creative
     Management  Strategies,  Inc., which company was paid or accrued the amount
     shown above and received options to purchase 25,000 shares of Common Stock,
     included in the amount shown. He became an employee of the Company in early
     2000.
(3)  During  2001,  Mr.  Hyman,  through  an  affiliated  entity,  served  as  a
     consultant  to Medix before he became a full time  employee  and  executive
     officer.  This amount includes the consulting  compensation to his firm. He
     also  received  a grant  of  options  to  purchase  20,000  shares  for his
     consulting services.

     Stock Option Awards.  In August 1999,  our Board of Directors  approved and
authorized  our 1999 Stock Option Plan (the "1999  Plan"),  which is intended to
grant  either  non-qualified  stock  options  or  incentive  stock  options,  as
described below. In 2000, our  shareholders  approved the 1999 Plan. The purpose
of the 1999 Plan is to enable our company to provide  opportunities  for certain
officers and key employees to acquire a proprietary  interest in our company, to
increase  incentives  for such  persons to  contribute  to our  performance  and
further  success,  and  to  attract  and  retain  individuals  with  exceptional
business,  managerial and  administrative  talents,  who will  contribute to our
progress, growth and profitability.

     Options  granted under our 1999 Plan include both  incentive  stock options
("ISOs"),  within the meaning of Section  422 of the  Internal  Revenue  Code of
1986, as amended (the "Code"),  and non-qualified stock options ("NQOs").  Under
the terms of the Plan,  all officers  and  employees of our company are eligible
for ISOs. Our company  determines in its discretion,  which persons will receive
ISOs, the applicable  exercise price,  vesting  provisions and the exercise term
thereof.  The terms and  conditions  of option  grants  differ from  optionee to
optionee and are set forth in the optionees'  individual stock option agreement.
Such options  generally vest over a period of one or more years and expire after
up to ten years.  In order to qualify for certain  preferential  treatment under
the Code,  ISOs must satisfy the statutory  requirements  thereof.  Options that
fail to satisfy  those  requirements  will be deemed  NQOs and will not  receive
preferential treatment under the Code. Upon exercise, shares will be issued upon
payment of the exercise price in cash, by delivery of shares of Common Stock, by
delivery of options or a combination of any of these methods. At our 2001 Annual
Meeting, our shareholders approved an increase of 3,000,000 shares to 13,000,000
as the amount of total  shares of our Common Stock  reserved for issuance  under
the 1999 Plan.

     As of March 15, 2002,  we had issued  5,736,560  shares of our Common Stock
upon exercise of options to current or former employees and directors,  and have
6,568,667  shares  currently  covered by outstanding  options held by current or
former employees and directors, with exercise prices ranging form $.19 to $4.97.
Such  options  have been  granted  under the 1999 Plan and earlier  stock option
plans.

     Option  information  for fiscal 2001 relating to the Named  Officers is set
forth below:

                             <B>Options Granted in 2001</B>

                     Number of
                     Shares of     Percentage
                       Common         of
                       Stock         Total                          Valuation
                     Underlying     Options                           under
                      Options      Granted to                         Black-
                      Granted      Employees                          Scholes
                        in             in      Exercise  Expiration   Pricing
     Name              2001           2001       Price      Date     Method(1)
- ------------------ ------------- ------------- --------- ----------- ----------

John R. Prufeta        400,00         21.2%       $.62     4/17/06    $217,755
                       25,000          1.3%       $.60     3/23/06    $ 13,171
Louis E. Hyman        230,000         12.2%       $.61     5/14/06    $123,190
                       20,000          1.1%       $.70     3/03/03    $ 15,580
Patricia A.           150,000          7.9%       $.61     5/14/06    $ 80,341
Minicucci              25,000          1.3%       $.60     3/23/06    $ 13,171
Gary L. Smith         150,000          7.9%       $.61     5/14/06    $ 80,341
                       25,000          1.3%       $.60     3/23/06    $ 13,171
Brian R. Ellacott     150,000          7.9%       $.61     5/14/06    $ 80,341
                       25,000          1.3%       $.60     3/23/06    $ 13,171

     (1) The Black-Scholes option-pricing model estimates the options fair value
by  considering  the  following  assumptions:  the  options  exercise  price and
expected  life,  the  underlying  current market price of the stock and expected
volatility,  expected dividends and the risk free interest rate corresponding to
the term of the option. The fair values calculated above use expected volatility
of 132%, a risk-free rate of 5.5%, no dividend yield and anticipated exercise at
the end of the term.


                                          Number of Shares            Value of Unexercised
                                      Underlying Unexercised         In-the-Money Options
                                        Options at Year-End             at Year-End(1)
                 Shares    Value   -----------------------------   --------------------------
Name           Exercised Realized  Exercisable     Unexercisable   Exercisable  Unexercisable
- -------------  --------- --------  ------------    -------------   -----------  -------------

John R. Prufeta     0         0     1,450,000(2)       500,000       $258,250       $80,000

Louis E. Hyman      0         0       112,500          137,500       $  8,325       $12,375

Patricia A.         0         0       575,000                0       $ 16,000       $     0
Minicucci

Gary L. Smith       0         0       325,000          100,000       $ 16,000       $     0

Louis E. Hyman      0         0       112,500          137,500       $  8,325       $12,375

Brian R. Ellacott   0         0       312,500           12,500       $ 16,000       $     0

- --------------

(1)  The dollar values are  calculated by  determining  the  difference  between
     $0.70 per share,  the fair market value of the Common Stock at December 31,
     2001, and the exercise price of the respective options.
(2)  Includes  options covering 25,000 of these shares were granted to a company
     that is an affiliate of Mr. Prufeta for executive search services.

     Medix has no retirement,  pension or profit-sharing program for the benefit
of its  directors,  executive  officers  or other  employees,  but the  Board of
Directors  may  recommend  one or more such programs for adoption in the future.
Medix does not make any contributions to its 401(k) Plan for its employees.

<B>Employment Agreements.</B>

     Mr. Prufeta's Employment  Agreement,  which has an initial term of one year
and renews in automatic one year increments thereafter, provides that he will be
compensated at the base salary of $275,000  annually,  plus a bonus of $400,000,
subject to certain performance criteria. He holds the positions of President and
Chief Executive  Officer and reports to the Board of Directors.  Pursuant to his
Employment  Agreement,  Mr. Prufeta has been granted options to purchase 200,000
shares of Common  Stock at $.70 per  share,  which vest upon the  occurrence  of
certain performance goals. His Employment  Agreement provides for termination at
any time by the employee with or without cause or by the Company with cause. The
Employment  Agreement  is also  subject to  termination  by the Company  without
cause,  after  the  initial  one-year  of the term  subject  to the right of the
employee to continue to receive  salary and pro-rata  bonus  compensation  for 6
months.  The  Employment  Agreement  also contains a non-compete  provision that
extends  for a period  of one  year  after  termination  or  resignation  of the
employee,  as  well  as  certain  confidentiality   provisions.  The  Employment
Agreement  contains  provisions   providing  that,  upon  the  occurrence  of  a
"Triggering  Event"  (defined  to  include a change in  ownership  of 50% of the
outstanding  shares of the Company's Common Stock through a merger or otherwise)
during the term of his  employment,  he will receive a lump sum payment equal to
his then current year's base and bonus pay.

     Mr. Hyman's Employment  Agreement,  which has an initial term of two years,
ending on May 14, 2003,  provides that he will be  compensated  at the salary of
$200,000  annually.  He holds the position of Executive Vice President and Chief
Technology  Officer,  and  reports to the  President  and CEO.  Pursuant  to his
Employment Agreement,  he has been granted options to purchase 230,000 shares of
Common  Stock  at $.61  per  share,  which  vest  over  the  2-year  term of his
Employment Agreement. His Employment

     Agreement  provides for  termination  at any time by the  employee  with or
without  cause or by the Company with cause.  The  Employment  Agreement is also
subject to termination by the Company  without cause after the initial  one-year
of the term,  subject  to the  right of the  employee  to  continue  to  receive
compensation for 6 months. The Employment  Agreement also contains a non-compete
provision that extends for a period of one year after termination or resignation
of the employee, as well as certain confidentiality  provisions.  The Employment
Agreement  contains  provisions   providing  that,  upon  the  occurrence  of  a
"Triggering  Event"  (defined  to  include a change in  ownership  of 50% of the
outstanding  shares of the Company's Common Stock through a merger or otherwise)
during the term of his  employment,  he will receive a lump sum payment equal to
his then current year's base and bonus pay.

     Ms.  Minicucci's  Employment  Agreement,  which had an initial  term of two
years,  ending on March 1, 2002,  provided that she be compensated at the salary
of $200,000 annually.  Such term has been extended to May 1, 2002. She holds the
position of Executive Vice President,  Operations,  and reports to the President
and CEO. Pursuant to her Employment  Agreement,  she has been granted options to
purchase 400,000 shares of Common Stock at $4.97 per share,  which vest over the
2-year term of his Employment  Agreement.  Her Employment Agreement provides for
termination  at any time by the employee with or without cause or by the Company
with cause.  The  Employment  Agreement  is also subject to  termination  by the
Company without cause after the initial  one-year term,  subject to the right of
the employee to continue to receive  compensation  for 6 months.  The Employment
Agreement also contains a non-compete provision that extends for a period of one
year  after  termination  or  resignation  of the  employee,  as well as certain
confidentiality   provisions.   The  Employment  Agreement  contains  provisions
providing that, upon the occurrence of a "Triggering  Event" (defined to include
a change in ownership of 50% of the outstanding  shares of the Company's  Common
Stock through a merger or otherwise) during the term of her employment, she will
receive a lump sum payment equal to his then current year's base and bonus pay.

     Mr. Smith's Employment  Agreement,  which has an initial term of two years,
ending on December 11, 2002,  provides that he will be compensated at the salary
of $200,000  annually.  He holds the position of Executive  Vice  President  and
Chief Financial  Officer,  and reports to the President and CEO. Pursuant to his
Employment Agreement,  he has been granted options to purchase 250,000 shares of
Common  Stock at  $1.125  per  share,  which  vest over the  2-year  term of his
Employment  Agreement.  His Employment Agreement provides for termination at any
time by the employee  with or without  cause or by the Company  with cause.  The
Employment Agreement is also subject to termination by the Company without cause
after the initial one-year of the term,  subject to the right of the employee to
continue to receive  compensation  for 6 months.  The Employment  Agreement also
contains a  non-compete  provision  that  extends for a period of one year after
termination or resignation of the employee,  as well as certain  confidentiality
provisions.  The Employment  Agreement contains provisions  providing that, upon
the occurrence of a "Triggering Event" (defined to include a change in ownership
of 50% of the outstanding  shares of the Company's Common Stock through a merger
or  otherwise)  during the term of his  employment,  he will  receive a lump sum
payment equal to his then current year's base and bonus pay.

     Mr.  Ellacott's  Employment  Agreement,  which had an  initial  term of two
years, ending on March 1, 2002, provided that he be compensated at the salary of
$150,000  annually.  Such term has been  extended to May 1, 2002. In March 2001,
Mr.  Ellacott's  annual salary was increased to $175,000.  He initially held the
position  of Senior Vice  President,  Business  Development,  and  recently  was
appointed as Senior Vice President and Southeast  Division Market CEO, reporting
to  the  Executive  Vice  President,  Operations.  Pursuant  to  his  Employment
Agreement,  he has been  granted  options to purchase  150,000  shares of Common
Stock at $3.97 per  share,  which vest over the  2-year  term of his  Employment
Agreement.  His Employment Agreement provides for termination at any time by the
employee  with or without  cause or by the Company  with cause.  The  Employment
Agreement is also subject to termination by the Company  without cause,  subject
to the right of the employee to continue to receive  compensation  for 6 months.
The Employment Agreement also contains a non-compete  provision that extends for
a period of one year after  termination or resignation of the employee,  as well
as certain confidentiality provisions.

<B>Director Compensation</B>

     In 1999,  we adopted  the policy of  compensating  non-employee  Directors,
$1,000 for attending each regular  quarterly  Board meeting in person,  and $250
for attendance by telephone.  The Board of Directors has also authorized payment
of reasonable  travel or other  out-of-pocket  expenses incurred by non-employee
directors  for  attending  Board or  committee  meetings.  Notwithstanding  this
policy,  during 2001, the Directors waived such fees but not  reimbursements for
out-of-pocket  expenses.  Independently,  Ms Joan Herman has waived her director
fees altogether, based on WellPoint company policy.

     From time to time, the Board of Directors will grant non-employee Directors
options to acquire shares of Common Stock as compensation  for their services to
the Company as  Directors.  During 2001,  we granted  options  covering  200,000
shares of Common  Stock each to Mr.  Jeffries and Mr.  Scalzi,  at the time they
became Directors, which are exercisable at $.78 per share.

     In January  2002,  the  Directors  discontinued  the policy of cash fees to
Directors  for  attending  Board or committee  meetings.  Instead,  non-employee
Directors will be compensated for their services through the grant of options to
purchase our Common Stock.  As of January 22, 2002,  each  Director,  except Ms.
Herman  based on the  policy  referred  to above,  has been  granted  options to
purchase  40,000 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.70 per share.
Those options vest in quarterly 10,000 share increments, from the date of grant,
provided that the Director remains on the Board of the Company.

     In 1999, we entered into a consulting  agreement  with Mr.  Samuel  Havens,
which  provides  that we pay Mr.  Havens  $5,000  per month  for his  consulting
services in connection with our marketing  efforts.  Mr. Havens has deferred his
monthly payment since April, 2001, with the accrued amount payable to Mr. Havens
at March 15, 2002 being $55,000. During 2001, we paid Mr. Havens $20,000 for his
services.

<B>Board Compensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation</B>

     The  Compensation  Committee  of the Board of Directors  (the  "Committee")
administers   the  Medix  stock  option   plans  and   oversees  our   executive
compensation,  subject  to  approval  of its  recommendations  by the  Board  of
Directors.  Executive compensation includes base salaries, annual incentives and
long  term  stock  option  plans,  as  well  as any  executive  benefits  and/or
prerequisites.

     Our general compensation  philosophy for our executive officers,  including
our  Chief  Executive  Officer  ("CEO"),  is to offer  competitive  compensation
packages that are designed to attract and retain key executives  critical to the
success of the Company.  At present,  packages include annual cash  compensation
(salaries)  and  long-term  compensation  consisting  of options to purchase the
Company's  stock,  to  align  the  interests  of  management  with  those of the
Company's  shareholders.  Beginning with calendar year 2002,  executive packages
will  include  variable  amounts of annual  bonus  potential,  tied to  specific
performance goals for the Company and the individual  executives.  The Committee
intends to review the performance and  compensation of executives  annually,  in
conjunction  with the performance of the Company.  Incentive Stock Option awards
are based upon the Committee's judgment as to the relative rank and contribution
of each  executive  (or other  employee)  to the  success  and  survival  of the
Company.

     In addition,  the Company has entered into  employment  agreements with its
executive officers, as outlined earlier in this report.

                                                   Compensation Committee,

                                                   Dr. David B. Skinner, Chairman
                                                   Ms. Joan E. Herman
                                                   Mr. John T. Lane


<B>Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation</B>

     In 1999, we entered into  agreements  with  Wellpoint  Pharmacy  Management
("WPM") to implement a pilot program for the introduction of  Cymedix(R)software
to healthcare  providers  identified by WPM.  After the required  testing of the
software,  the  agreements  provide  for a  production  program to  install  the
software  broadly among WPM managed  providers.  One of the agreements  provides
that Medix will nominate a representative  of WPM to be elected to the Company's
Board of  Directors.  Ms. Herman is that  representative.  Such  agreement  also
provided that WPM would be granted warrants  evidencing the right to purchase up
to 6,000,000  shares of Common Stock,  which vest upon the occurrence of certain
performance criteria.  The agreement provides for the grant of warrants covering
3,000,000  shares  with an  exercise  price of $0.30  per  share,  and  warrants
covering  3,000,000  shares  with an  exercise  price of $0.50  per  share,  all
expiring five years from the date of grant, September 8, 2004. In February 2002,
the warrant agreement was amended to revise the performance  criteria and to add
an additional right to purchase up to 1,000,000  additional  shares at $1.75 per
share. At March 15, 2002,  warrants covering  1,850,000  shares,  exercisable at
$.30 per share,  had vested.  In February 2002,  Wellpoint Health Networks Inc.,
the parent of WPM made a secured  convertible  loan to Medix of $1,000,000.  See
"DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS - Recent  Developments"  for a description of the terms
of both these agreements.  In addition,  Mr. Jeffries,  who became a director of
ours in 2001, is an officer and consultant to Wellpoint Health Network.

<B>Comparison of Cumulative Total Returns</B>

     The following graph compares the performance of the Company's  common stock
with the performance of the AMEX Composite  Index and on Custom  Composite Index
(4 stocks)  over the five year period  extending  through  the end of 2001.  The
graph  assumes  that $100 was  invested  on December  31, 1996 in the  Company's
common stock, the AMEX Composite Index and the Custom Composite index,  with any
dividends being  reinvested.  The Company has provided this graph using publicly
available information that it has no reason to believe is not accurate. However,
the Company takes no responsibility for such information.

     The Custom Composite Index includes Cybear, AllScripts, WebMD and ProxyMed,
companies  that the Company  believes are its peers and that are involved in the
same or similar lines of businesses.  The Company  believes that this peer group
provides that the Company  believes are its peers and a better  comparison  than
broader indices which are publicly  available.  Data for Cybear,  AllScripts and
WebMD were not available for periods prior to 1999.







          <U>Based on the reinvestment of $100 beginning December 31, 1996</U>

                       12/31/1996   12/31/1997   12/31/1998   12/31/1999   12/31/2000   12/31/2001
                      ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ -----------

Medix Resources, Inc.    $  100      $   23       $    9       $  288        $  100        $   65
AMEX Composite Index     $  100      $  120       $  120       $  153        $  155        $  148
Custom Composite Index   $  100      $   98       $  165       $  138        $   16        $   20


<A NAME="security"></A>
<B>ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT</B>

     The following  table sets forth certain  information  regarding  beneficial
ownership of Common Stock as of March 15, 2002 by (i) each person known by us to
own beneficially  more than 5 % of the outstanding  shares of Common Stock. (ii)
each  director,  named  executive  officer and (iii) all executive  officers and
directors as a group.  On such date,  we had  58,386,516  shares of Common Stock
outstanding.  Shares not outstanding but deemed  beneficial1y owned by virtue of
the right of any  individual  to acquire  shares  within 60 days are  treated as
outstanding  only when  determining  the amount and  percentage  of Common Stock
owned by such individual.  Each person has sole voting and investment power with
respect to the shares shown, except as noted.

     Name and Address            Number of Shares         Percentage of Class
     ----------------            ----------------         -------------------


      John R. Prufeta              2,453,000(1)                  4.1%
 420 Lexington Ave., Suite
           1830
    New York, New York

       John T. Lane                 560,000(2)                     *
      94 Sixth Street
  Garden City, New Jersey

     Samuel H. Havens               210,000(3)                     *
   58 Winged Foot Drive
  Livingston, New Jersey

      Joan E. Herman                 None(4)                      0%
     One Wellpoint Way
 Thousand Oaks, California

    Patrick W. Jeffries             110,000(3)                     *
     One Wellpoint Way
 Thousand Oaks, California

       Guy L Scalzi                 110,000(3)                     *
  The Chrysler Building,
        37th Floor
  42nd and Lexington Ave.
    New York, New York

   Dr. David B. Skinner             210,000(3)                     *
   525 East 68th Street
    New York, New York

      Louis E. Hyman                167,500(3)                     *
 420 Lexington Ave., Suite
           1830
    New York, New York


   Patricia A. Minicucci            575,000(3)                     *
 420 Lexington Ave., Suite
           1830
    New York, New York

       Gary L. Smith                350,000(3)                     *
 420 Lexington Ave., Suite
           1830
    New York, New York

      Brian Ellacott                325,000(3)                     *
    101 Village Parkway
       Building One
     Marietta, Georgia


All directors and executive officers5,070,500                    8.0%
 as a group (11 persons)
*Less than 1% of the outstanding shares
- -------------------

(1)  Mr.  Prufeta  owns  737,000  shares of  Common  Stock,  with the  remainder
     available upon the exercise of warrants and options held by him.
(2)  All of Mr. Lane's  reported  holdings are available  upon the conversion or
     exercise of convertible  preferred stock, warrants and options held by him,
     including 50 shares of the Company's  1999 Series B  Convertible  Preferred
     Stock (100% of the outstanding  shares of that class), and 25 shares of the
     Company's  1999  Series  C  Convertible   Preferred   Stock  (6.7%  of  the
     outstanding shares of that class).
(3)  Represents   shares  of  Common  Stock   available  upon  the  exercise  of
     outstanding options.
(4)  Ms. Herman has declined the grant of any options based on Wellpoint company
     policy.

<A NAME="certain"></A>
<B>ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS</B>

     Since 1996, we have had a policy that any  transactions  with  directors or
officers or any  entities in which they are also  officers  or  directors  or in
which  they  have a  financial  interest,  will only be on terms  that  would be
reached in an arms-length  transaction,  consistent with industry  standards and
approved by a majority of our disinterested directors. This policy provides that
no such  transaction by shall be either void or voidable  solely because of such
relationship  or interest of such  directors or officers or solely  because such
directors  are present at the meeting of the Board of  Directors  or a committee
thereof that approves such transaction or solely because their votes are counted
for  such  purpose.  In  addition,   interested  directors  may  be  counted  in
determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or a
committee  thereof  that  approves  such a  transaction.  We have also adopted a
policy that any loans to officers,  directors  and 5% or more  shareholders  are
subject to  approval by a majority of the  disinterested  directors.  All of the
transactions described below have been approved according to this policy.

     Before Mr.  Prufeta was elected to our Board of Directors in 1999,  OnPoint
Partners (formerly known as Creative Management  Strategies)  ("OPP"), a company
partially owned by Mr. John Prufeta,  entered into agreements with us to provide
executive search services and sales and marketing  services to us. In connection
with those agreements,  we issued a 3-year option to acquire up to 25,000 shares
of our Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.55 per share to OPP. We also paid
such company $71,000 during 1999. In addition,  for Mr. Prufeta's  service to us
as Chief Executive Officer until he became a full-time  employee,  and the above
services  provided by the  affiliated  company,  we have paid $110,000 to OPP in
2000.  At the time Mr.  Prufeta  became a  full-time  employee of the Company in
January of 2000, such agreements with OPP were terminated. During 2001 and 2000,
we  have  paid  OPP  approximately  $111,000  and  $93,000,   respectively,   as
reimbursements  for rents and  services  for our former New York  office  space,
which was  leased in the name of OPP.  In  addition,  we have paid OPP  employee
search  fees of  approximately  $38,361  and  $152,000  during  2001  and  2000,
respectively,  for their employee search services.  OPP is a recognized provider
of  executive  and  employee  search  services  to all areas of the health  care
industry,  and  provides  it  services  to us at  standard  rates.  The Board of
Directors,  through the Audit Committee, reviews and approves of our contractual
arrangements with OPP.

     We have entered into a consulting  agreement with Mr. Samuel Havens,  which
provides that we pay Mr. Havens $5,000 per month for his consulting  services in
connection  with our  marketing  efforts.  Mr.  Havens has  deferred his monthly
payment since April 2001, with the accrued amount payable to Mr. Havens at March
15,  2002  being  $55,000.  During  2001,  we paid Mr.  Havens  $20,000  for his
services.

     See "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION - Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation" for a description of other related party transactions.


                                     <B><U>PART IV</U></B>
<A NAME="exhibit"></A>
<B>ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K</B>

(a)  Documents filed as part of this Report

     (1)  Financial Statements

          See Financial  Statements  included after the signature page beginning
          at page F-1.

     (2)  Financial statement schedules

          All  schedules  are omitted  because  they are not  applicable  or the
          required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements
          or the notes thereto.

     (3)  List of Exhibits

          See Index to Exhibits on pages in paragraph (c) below.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K. The Company filed seven reports on Form 8-K during the
     last quarter of 2001 as follows:

1.   Report filed with the SEC on October 9, 2001,  reporting  under Item 5, the
     issuance of a press  release  announcing  that Medix  Resources and Express
     Scripts will jointly  deploy  web-based  pharmacy  transaction  services to
     physicians.

2.   Report filed with the SEC on October 24, 2001,  reporting under Item 5, the
     issuance of a press release  announcing that a strategic  alliance  between
     Medix  Resources and  Merck-Medco to provide  physicians with point of care
     access  to  clinical   information  and  electronic   prescribing   through
     Cymedix(R)suite  of  web-based  pharmacy  benefit  management   transaction
     services.

3.   Report filed with the SEC on October 31, 2001,  reporting under Item 5, the
     issuance of a press release  announcing that a strategic  alliance  between
     Medix  Resources and  Merck-Medco to provide  physicians with point of care
     access  to  clinical   information  and  electronic   prescribing   through
     Cymedix(R)suite  of  web-based  pharmacy  benefit  management   transaction
     services.

4.   Report filed with the SEC on November 2, 2001,  reporting under Item 5, the
     issuance of a press release  announcing the introduction of  Cymedix(R)III,
     the next generation of Medix's proprietary, point-of-care products.

5.   Report filed with the SEC on November 15, 2001, reporting under Item 5, the
     issuance of a press release  announcing  that Medix  Resources  will assist
     Georgia doctors with electronic Medicaid claims filing.

6.   Report filed with the SEC on December 11, 2001, reporting under Item 5, the
     issuance of a press release announcing that Medix will provide a telephonic
     progress report.

7.   Report  filed with the SEC on December 26,  2001,  reporting  under Item 5,
     that Medix  Resources had announced  that its business plan  indicates that
     the certain financial goals could be attained  provided adequate  financing
     is available.

(c)  <U>Exhibits  required by Item 601 of  Regulation  S-K</U>. We will  furnish to our
     shareholders  a copy of any of the  exhibits  listed  below upon payment of
     $.25 per page to cover the costs of the Company of furnishing the exhibits.

Exhibit No. Description
- ----------  -----------

3.1.1       Articles  of  incorporation  of the  Company as filed on April 22, 1988
            with the Secretary of State of the State of Colorado,  incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit 3.1.1 to the  Registration  Statement on Form SB-2
            (Reg.  No.  33-81582-D),  filed with the SEC in July 14,1994 (the "1994
            Registration Statement").

3.1.2       Articles of  Amendment to Articles of  Incorporation  of the Company as
            filed on May 24,  1988  with  the  Secretary  of State of the  State of
            Colorado,  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  3.1.2  to the 1994
            Registration Statement.

3.1.3       Articles of  Amendment to Articles of  Incorporation  of the Company as
            filed on  February  16, 1990 with the  Secretary  of State of the State
            of Colorado,  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit  3.1.3 to the 1994
            Registration Statement.

3.1.4       Articles of  Amendment to Articles of  Incorporation  of the Company as
            filed on August 12,  1994 with the  Secretary  of State of the State of
            Colorado,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 3.1.4 to Amendment No.
            1 to the 1994  Registration  Statement,  filed  with the SEC on  August
            15, 1994.

3.1.5       Articles of  Amendment to Articles of  Incorporation  of the Company as
            filed on  September  12, 1994 with the  Secretary of State of the State
            of Colorado,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  3.1.5 to Amendment
            No.  3 to the  1994  Registration  Statement,  filed  with  the  SEC on
            September 12, 1994.

3.1.6       Certificate  of  Designation  of  1996  Convertible   Preferred  Stock,
            incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 3.1 to  Amendment  No. 1 to the
            Registration  Statement  of the  Company  on Form S-3,  filed  with the
            SEC October 10, 1996.

3.1.7       Articles  to  Amendment  to Articles  of  Incorporation  filed with the
            Secretary  of State of the  State  of  Colorado  on  October  9,  1996,
            incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 3.2 to  Amendment  No. 1 to the
            Registration  Statement  of the  Company on Form S-3 filed with the SEC
            on October 10, 1996.

3.1.8       Articles  of  Amendment  containing  Articles  of  Designation of  1997
            Convertible  Preferred  Stock,  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit
            3.1.8 to the  Company's  Form  10-KSB  filed  with the SEC on March 31,
            1997.

3.1.9       Articles  of  Amendment  to  Articles   of    Incorporation    of   the
            Company as filed on November  14, 1997 with the  Secretary  of State of
            the State of Colorado,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  3.1.9 to
            the Company's Form 10-KSB filed with the SEC on March 30, 1998.

3.1.10      Articles  of  Amendment  to  Articles  of  Incorporation of the Company
            as filed on February  17, 1998 with the  Secretary  of State of
            the State of Colorado,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 3.1.10 to
            the Company's Form 10-KSB filed with the SEC on March 30, 1998.

3.1.11      Articles  of  Amendment to Articles of Incorporation  of the Company as
            filed on March  17,  1998 with the  Secretary  of State of the State of
            Colorado,   incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit   3.1.11  to  the
            Company's Form 10-KSB filed with the SEC on March 30, 1998.

3.1.12      Articles of Amendment of Articles of  Incorporation  establishing
            the 1999  Series A  Convertible  Preferred  Stock as filed on April 21,
            1999,  with  Secretary of State of the State of Colorado,  incorporated
            by  reference to Exhibit  3.1.12 to the  Company's  Form 10-KSB,  filed
            with the SEC on March 30, 2000.

3.1.13      Articles of  Amendment  of Articles of  Incorporation  increasing
            the authorized  capital of the Company as filed on June 11, 1999,  with
            Secretary  of  State  of  the  State  of  Colorado,   incorporated   by
            reference to Exhibit  3.1.13 to the Company's  Form 10-KSB,  filed with
            the SEC on March 30, 2000.

3.1.14      Articles of Amendment of Articles of  Incorporation  establishing
            the 1999  Series  B  Convertible  Preferred  Stock as filed on July 22,
            1999,  with  Secretary of State of the State of Colorado,  incorporated
            by  reference to Exhibit  3.1.14 to the  Company's  Form 10-KSB,  filed
            with the SEC on March 30, 2000.

3.1.15      Articles of Amendment of Articles of  Incorporation  establishing
            the 1999 Series C Convertible  Preferred  Stock as filed on January 21,
            2000,  with  Secretary of State of the State of Colorado,  incorporated
            by  reference to Exhibit  3.1.15 to the  Company's  Form 10-KSB,  filed
            with the SEC on March 30, 2000.

3.1.16      Articles of  Amendment  of Articles of  Incorporation  increasing
            the  authorized  capital  of the  Company  as filed on March 22,  2000,
            with  Secretary  of State of the  State of  Colorado,  incorporated  by
            reference to Exhibit  3.1.16 to the Company's  Form 10-KSB,  filed with
            the SEC on March 30, 2000.

3.2          Amended  and  Restated   By-Laws  of  the  Company,   incorporated  by
            reference  to  Exhibit  3.2.2 to  Amendment  No. 1 to the  Registration
            Statement filed with the SEC on August 15, 1994.

4.1         Form of specimen  certificate  for common  stock of the  Company,
            incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1.  to the  Company's  Form
            10-KSB filed with the SEC on March 30, 1998.

4.2         Form of 1996 Unit  Warrant,  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1 to
            Amendment  No. 1 to the  Registration  Statement of the Company on Form
            S-3 filed with the SEC on October 10, 1996.

4.3         Warrant  issued  January 28, 1997 to  Millenco,  L.P,  Incorporated  by
            reference  to  Exhibit  4.9 to the  Company's  Form  10-KSB  filed with
            the SEC on March 31, 1997.

4.4         Form of 1997 Unit  Warrant,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.11
            to the Company's Form 10-KSB filed  with the SEC on March 31, 1997.

4.5         Form of Warrant  issued  with the 1999  Series A, B, and C  Convertible
            Preferred  Stock,  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.7 to the
            Company's Form 10-KSB, filed with the SEC on March 30, 2000.

4.6         Amended  and  Restated  Warrant  to  Purchase  Common  Stock  issued to
            Wellpoint
            Pharmacy  Management,  dated September 8, 1999 and amended February 18,
            2002,  incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.7 to the  Company's
            Amendment  No.1  to  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-2  (Reg.  No.
            333-73572), filed with the SEC on February 28, 2002.

10.1.1      Incentive  Stock  Option Plan,  adopted May 5, 1988,  authorizing
            100,000  shares of  common  stock for  issuance  pursuant  to the Plan,
            incorporated   by  reference   to  Exhibit  No.   10.2.1  of  the  1994
            Registration Statement.

10.1.2      Omnibus  Stock Option Plan,  adopted  effective  January 1, 1994,
            authorizing  500,000  shares of common stock for  issuance  pursuant to
            the Plan,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit No. 10.2.2 of the 1994
            Registration Statement.

10.1.3      1996 Stock  Incentive  Plan,  adopted by the  Company's  Board of
            Directors  on  November  27,  1996,  authorizing  4,000,000  shares  of
            common  stock for  issuance  pursuant  to the  Plan.,  incorporated  by
            reference  to Exhibit  10.2.3 to the  Company's  Form 10-KSB filed with
            the SEC on March 30, 1998.

10.1.4      1999 Stock  Option  Plan,  adopted by the Board of  Directors  on
            August 16,  1999,  as amended,  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit
            10.2.4 to the  Company's  Form  10-KSB  filed with the SEC on March 21,
            2001.

10.2        Agreement  and Plan of Merger,  dated as of November  17,  1997,
            among  International  Nursing Services,  Inc., Cymedix Lynx Corporation
            and Cymedix  Corporation,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to
            the  Company's  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K  filed  with  the SEC on
            December 24, 1997.

10.3        Amendment No. 1 to Agreement  and Plan of Merger,  dated as of December
            10, 1997, among  International  Nursing  Services,  Inc.,  Cymedix Lynx
            Corporation  and Cymedix  Corporation,  incorporated  by  reference  to
            Exhibit  2.2 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K filed  with
            the SEC on December 24, 1997.

10.4        Purchase and Sale Agreement,  dated  September 14, 1998,  among Premier
            Home Health Care  Services,  Inc.,  National Care  Resources-New  York,
            Inc., and Medix Resources,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            10.23 to the  Company's  Form 8-K,  filed with the SEC on September 28,
            1998.

10.5        Employment  Agreement  between the Company and Mr. John R. Prufeta,  dated as
            of February 1, 2002.*

10.6        Employment  Agreement  between the Company and Mr. Brian R.  Ellacott,  dated
            as of February 11,  2000,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10.21
            to the Company's Form 10-KSB, filed with the SEC on March 30, 2000.

10.7        Employment  Agreement  between  the Company  and Ms.  Patricia A.  Minicucci,
            dated as of February  15,  2000,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
            10.22 to the  Company's  Form  10-KSB,  filed with the SEC on March 30,
            2000.

10.8        Asset  Purchase  Agreement,  dated  as of  February  19,  2000,  among  Medix
            Resources,   Inc.,  Medical  Staffing  Network,   Inc.,  National  Care
            Resources - Texas, Inc.,  National Care Resources - Colorado,  Inc. and
            TherAmerica,  Inc.,  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
            Company's Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on March 7, 2000.

10.9        Agreement  and  Plan of  Merger,  dated  as of March  8,  2000,  among  Medix
            Resources,  Inc., Cymedix Lynx Corporation,  Automated Design Concepts,
            Inc. and David R. Pfeil,  incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit  10.24
            to the Company's Form 10-KSB, filed with the SEC on March 30, 2000.

10.10       Consulting  Agreement between the Company and Mr. Samuel H. Havens,  dated as
            of October 1, 1999,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the
            Company's Form 10-KSB, filed with the SEC on March 30, 2000.

10.11       Executive  Employment  Agreement  between  the Company and Mr. Gary L. Smith,
            dated as of December  11,  2000,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit
            10.20 to the  Company's  Form  10-KSB  filed  with the SEC on March 21,
            2001.

10.12       Executive  Employment  Agreement  between  the  Company  and Louis E.  Hyman,
            dated May 14, 2001*

10.13       Securities   Purchase   Agreement,   dated   as   of   December   29,   2000,
            between     RoyCap     Inc.     and     Medix     Resources,      Inc.,
            incorporated  by reference to Exchibit 10.1 to the  Company's  form S-2
            registration Statement filed with the SEC on January 29, 2001.

10.14       Convertible Note of Medix  Resources,  Inc., dated as of December 29, 2000 in
            the  principal  amount of up to  $2,500,000,  in favor of RoyCap  Inc.,
            incorporated  by reference to Exchibit 10.2 to the  Company's  form S-2
            registration Statement filed with the SEC on January 29, 2001.

10.15       Registration   Rights   Agreement,   dated   as   of   December   29,   2000,
            between     RoyCap     Inc.     and     Medix      Resources,      Inc.
            incorporated  by reference to Exchibit 10.3 to the  Company's  Form S-2
            Registration Statement filed with the SEC on January 29, 2001.

10.16       Warrant  Agreement,  dated as of December 29, 2000,  between  RoyCap Inc. and
            Medix Resources,  Inc.,  incorporated  by reference  to Exchibit  10.4 to the
            Company's Form S-2
            Registration Statement filed with the SEC on January 29, 2001.

10.17       Securities   Purchase   Agreement,   dated  February  19,  2002,
            between  Medix and  Wellpoint  Health  Networks  Inc.  incorporated  by
            reference  to  Exhibit  10.8  to  the  Company's   Amendment   No.1  to
            Registration  Statement on Form S-2 (Reg.  No.  333-73572),  filed with
            the SEC on February 28, 2002.

10.18       General  Security  Agreement,  dated  February  19,  2002,  among
            Medix,  Cymedix and Wellpoint  Health  Networks Inc.,  incorporated  by
            reference  to  Exhibit  10.9  to  the  Company's   Amendment   No.1  to
            Registration  Statement  on Form S-2 (Reg.  No.  333-73572)  filed with
            the SEC on February 28, 2002.

10.19       Participation  Agreement,   dated  as  of  April  2,  2001,
            between  Medix and Kaiser  Foundation  Health  Plan of  Georgia,  Inc.,
            incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's  Amendment
            No.1 to  Registration  Statement  on Form  S-2  (Reg.  No.  333-73572),
            filed with the SEC on February  28,  2002.  (Portions  of this  Exhibit
            have been  omitted  pursuant  to a request for  confidential  treatment
            filed    with    the    Office    of    the     Secretary     of    the
            SEC)

10.20       Agreement,  dated as of October  18,  2001,  between  Medix
            and  Merck-Medco  Managed Care,  L.L.C.,  incorporated  by reference to
            Exhibit  10.2  to  the  Company's   Amendment   No.1  to   Registration
            Statement  on Form S-2  (Reg.  No.  333-73572),  filed  with the SEC on
            February  28,  2002.  (Portions  of  this  Exhibit  have  been  omitted
            pursuant  to a  request  for  confidential  treatment  filed  with  the
            Office of the Secretary of the SEC)

10.21       Vendor   Services   Agreement,    dated   as   of   September   28,   2001,
            between Medix and Express Scripts,  Inc.,  incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit  10.3  to  the  Company's   Amendment   No.1  to   Registration
            Statement  on Form S-2  (Reg.  No.  333-73572),  filed  with the SEC on
            February  28,  2002.  (Portions  of  this  Exhibit  have  been  omitted
            pursuant  to a  request  for  confidential  treatment  filed  with  the
            Office of the Secretary of the SEC)

10.22       Binding   Letter  of  Intent   for  Pilot  and   Production
            Programs,   dated  September  8,  1999,  between  Medix,   Cymedix  and
            Professional   Claims   Services,   Inc.  (d/b/a   Wellpoint   Pharmacy
            Management),   incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.4  to  the
            Company's  Amendment No.1 to  Registration  Statement on Form S-2 (Reg.
            No.  333-73572),  filed with the SEC on February  28,  2002.  (Portions
            of  this  Exhibit   have  been  omitted   pursuant  to  a  request  for
            confidential  treatment  filed with the Office of the  Secretary of the
            SEC)

10.23       Pilot  Agreement,  dated as of December 28,  1999,  between
            Cymedix  and  Professional  Claims  Services,   Inc.  (d/b/a  Wellpoint
            Pharmacy  Management),  incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit 10.5 to
            the  Company's  Amendment  No.1 to  Registration  Statement on Form S-2
            (Reg.  No.  333-73572),  filed  with  the  SEC on  February  28,  2002.
            (Portions of this  Exhibit have been omitted  pursuant to a request for
            confidential  treatment  filed with the Office of the  Secretary of the
            SEC)

10.24       Agreement For Internet Medical  Communications  Network, dated March 2,
            2000,   between   Cymedix  and  Loyola   University   Medical   Center,
            incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the  Company's  Amendment
            No.1 to  Registration  Statement  on Form  S-2  (Reg.  No.  333-73572),
            filed with the SEC on February  28,  2002.  (Portions  of this  Exhibit
            have been  omitted  pursuant  to a request for  confidential  treatment
            filed with the Office of the Secretary of the SEC)

10.25       Lease between SLG Graybar Sublease, LLC and the Company,
            dated January 17, 2002 for the Company's principal executive office.*

21.         Subsidiaries of the Company.*

23.         Consent of Ehrhardt Keefe Steiner &amp; Hottman PC,  independent  certified
            public   accountants  for  the  Company,   to  the   incorporation   by
            reference of its report dated March 19,  2002,  appearing  elsewhere in
            this From  10-KSB  into the  Company's  Registration  Statements  on on
            Form  S-3  (Reg.  No.   333-32308  and   333-85483)  and   Registration
            Statements on Form S-8 (Reg. No. 333-31684, 333-57558 and 333-73578).*
- --------------
*Filed herewith




                                    SIGNATURES

      In accordance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant caused this report to be signed on behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on March 28, 2002.

                                    MEDIX RESOURCES, INC.

                                    By:/s/ John R. Prufeta
                                      --------------------

President and CEO

In accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities indicated and on the dates indicated.

      Signature                     Title                                 Date
      ---------                     -----                                 ----


    /s/ John R. Prufeta         President and Chief Executive
    -------------------          Officer (Principal Executive
        John R. Prufeta          Officer                              March 28, 2002


    /s/ Gary L. Smith           Executive Vice President and
    -----------------            Chief Financial Officer (Principal)
        Gary L. Smith            Accounting and Financial Officer)    March 28, 2002


   /s/Joan E. Herman            Director                              March 28, 2002
   -----------------
      Joan E. Herman


   /s/ Dr. David B. Skinner     Director                              March 28, 2002
   ----------------------
       Dr. David B. Skinner

   /s/ John T. Lane             Director                              March 28, 2002
   ----------------
       John T. Lane

  /s/ Samuel H. Havens          Director                              March 28, 2002
  ---------------------
      Samuel H. Havens


- ------------------              Director                              March 28, 2002
 Patrick W. Jeffries


/s/ Guy L. Scalzi               Director                              March 28, 2002
- -----------------
    Guy L. Scalzi




                               <B>Medix.resources, inc.
                        Connecting the world of healthcare

                         Consolidated Financial Statements
                                        and
                           Independent Auditors' Report
                            December 31, 2001 and 2000</B>




                                 <B><U>Table of Contents</U></B>



Independent Auditors' Report

Consolidated Financial Statements

      Consolidated Balance Sheets

      Consolidated Statements of Operations

      Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity

      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements







                           <B>INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT</B>



Board of Directors and Stockholders
Medix Resources, Inc.
Englewood, CO


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Medix Resources,
Inc. as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the related  consolidated  statements
of operations, changes in stockholders' equity (deficit) and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended  December 31,  2001.  These  consolidated
financial  statements are the  responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the  United  States of  America.  Those  standards  require  that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the consolidated
financial  statements  are free of  material  misstatement.  An  audit  includes
examining,  on a test basis,  evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the  consolidated  financial  statements.  An audit also includes  assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well
as evaluating the overall  consolidated  financial  statement  presentation.  We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly,  in all material  respects,  the financial  position of Medix Resources,
Inc. as of December 31, 2001 and 2000,  and the results of their  operations and
their cash flows for each of the years in the three year period  ended  December
31, 2001 in conformity  with  accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the
United States of America.

The accompanying  consolidated  financial statements have been prepared assuming
the Company  will  continue as a going  concern.  As  discussed in Note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements,  the Company has experienced recurring losses
and has a working  capital  deficit  which  raise  substantial  doubt  about its
ability to continue  as a going  concern.  Management's  plans  regarding  those
matters also are described in Note 2. The consolidated  financial  statements do
not  include  any  adjustments  that  might  result  from  the  outcome  of this
uncertainty.



                                                Ehrhardt Keefe Steiner &amp; Hottman PC

March 19, 2002
Denver, Colorado


<PAGE>


                               <B>MEDIX RESOURCES, INC.

                            Consolidated Balance Sheets</B>


                                                                 December 31,
                                                         ---------------------------
                                                              2001             2000
                                                         -------------    --------------
                                      <B>Assets</B>

Current assets
   Cash                                                  $       8,000     $   1,007,000
   Accounts receivable, net                                          -            49,000
   Prepaid expenses and other                                  344,000           225,000
                                                         -------------    --------------
     Total current assets                                      352,000         1,281,000
                                                         -------------    --------------

Non-current assets
   Software development costs, net                             649,000           371,000
   Property and equipment, net                                 365,000           418,000
   Intangible assets, net                                    1,735,000         3,019,000
                                                         -------------    --------------
     Total non-current assets                                2,749,000         3,808,000
                                                         -------------    --------------

Total assets                                             $   3,101,000     $   5,089,000
                                                         =============    ==============

                       <B>Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity</B>

Current liabilities
   Notes payable                                         $     158,000     $     137,000
   Accounts payable                                            851,000           159,000
   Accounts payable - related parties                          166,000                -
   Accrued expenses                                            450,000           391,000
   Accrued payroll taxes, interest and penalties               131,000           200,000
                                                         -------------    --------------
     Total current liabilities                               1,756,000           887,000
                                                         -------------    --------------

Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders' equity
   1996 Preferred stock, 10% cumulative convertible, $1
    par value 488 shares authorized, 155 issued, 1
    share outstanding, liquidation preference $17,000               -                 -
   1997 convertible preferred stock, $1 par value 300
    shares authorized 167.15 shares issued, zero shares
    outstanding                                                     -                 -
   1999 Series A convertible preferred stock, $1 par
    value, 300 shares authorized, 300 shares issued,
    zero shares outstanding                                         -                 -
   1999 Series B convertible preferred stock, $1 par
    value, 2,000 shares authorized, 1,832 shares
    issued, 50 shares outstanding, liquidation
    preference $50,000                                              -                 -
   1999 Series C convertible stock, $1 par value, 2,000
    shares authorized, 1,995 shares issued, 375 and 875
    shares outstanding as of December 31, 2001 and
    2000, respectively, liquidation preference $375,000
    and $875,000                                                    -              1,000
   Common stock, $.001 par value, 100,000,000 shares
    authorized, 56,651,409 and 46,317,022 issued and
    outstanding, respectively                                   56,000            46,000
   Dividends payable with common stock                           7,000             5,000
   Additional paid-in capital                               35,341,000        27,573,000
   Accumulated deficit                                    (34,059,000)       (23,423,000)
                                                         -------------    --------------
     Total stockholders' equity                              1,345,000         4,202,000
                                                         -------------    --------------

Total liabilities and stockholders' equity               $   3,101,000     $   5,089,000
                                                         =============    ==============

                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.
<PAGE>




                       <B>Consolidated Statements of Operations</B>


                                                      For the Years Ended
                                                         December 31,
                                          -------------------------------------------
                                               2001           2000          1999
                                          -------------- ------------- --------------

Sales
   Revenues                               $      29,000  $     326,000  $      24,000
                                          -------------- ------------- --------------
                                                 29,000        326,000         24,000
                                          -------------- ------------- --------------

Cost of goods sold
   Direct costs of services                     213,000        180,000          2,000
                                          -------------- ------------- --------------
     Total cost of goods sold                   213,000        180,000          2,000
                                          -------------- ------------- --------------

Gross (loss) profit                           (184,000)        146,000         22,000
                                          -------------- ------------- --------------

Operating expenses
   Software research and development
    costs                                     1,075,000        685,000        596,000
   Selling, general and administrative
    expenses                                  5,746,000      5,925,000      3,777,000
   Impairment of intangible assets            1,111,000             -              -
                                          -------------- -------------  -------------
     Total operating expenses                 7,932,000      6,610,000      4,373,000
                                          -------------- ------------- --------------

Other income (expense)
   Other income                                  12,000        163,000          7,000
   Interest expense                            (104,000)       (43,000)      (204,000)
   Financing costs                           (2,428,000)            -              -
                                          -------------- -------------  -------------
                                             (2,520,000)       120,000       (197,000)
                                          -------------- ------------- --------------
Loss from continuing operations            (10,636,000)    (6,344,000)    (4,548,000)
                                          -------------- ------------- --------------
Discontinued operations
   Discontinued operations                           -         929,000       (299,000)
                                          -------------- ------------- --------------
                                                     -         929,000       (299,000)
                                          -------------- ------------- --------------

Net loss                                   (10,636,000)    (5,415,000)     (4,847,000)

Preferred stock dividends                            -         (1,000)     (2,212,000)
                                          -------------- ------------- --------------

Net loss available to common Stockholders $(10,636,000)  $ (5,416,000)   $ (7,059,000)
                                          ============== ============= ==============

Basic and diluted weighted average
 common shares outstanding                   50,740,356     41,445,345     23,384,737
                                          ============== ============= ==============

Basic and diluted (loss) per common share
 - continuing operations                  $      (0.21)  $      (0.15)   $      (0.29)

Basic and diluted income (loss) per
 common share - discontinued operations             -            0.02          (0.01)
                                          -------------- ------------- --------------

Basic and diluted loss per common share   $      (0.21)  $      (0.13)   $      (0.30)
                                          ============== ============= ==============

                  See notes to consolidated financial statements.
<PAGE>



             <B>Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity
               For the Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999</B>




                                                                        1999 Series A        1999 Series B        1999 Series C                                            Dividend                      Total
                         1996 Preferred Stock  1997 Preferred Stock    Preferred Stock      Preferred Stock      Preferred Stock         Common Stock        Additional     Payable                   Stockholders'
                         --------------------  --------------------   ------------------  -------------------   -----------------    ---------------------    Paid-in     with Common   Accumulated      Equity
                           Shares     Amount     Shares     Amount     Shares    Amount    Shares    Amount      Shares    Amount      Shares     Amount      Capital        Stock        Deficit       (Deficit)
                         ---------  ---------   --------  ---------   -------- ---------  --------- ---------   -------- ---------   ----------- ---------  ------------  -----------   ------------  --------------

Balance - December 31,
1998                          8.00  $      -       19.50  $      -          -  $      -   $      -  $      -    $     -   $     -     21,500,724 $  22,000  $ 12,882,000$      39,000   $(13,161,000)   $    (218,000)

Issuance of warrants
  with convertible note
  payable                       -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -             -         -        238,000           -              -           238,000

1999 preferred stock
  issuances (net of
  $15,500 of offering
  costs)                        -          -          -          -         300        -       1,832     2,000      1,995     2,000            -         -      4,108,000           -              -         4,112,000

Preferred stock
  conversions                (4.50)        -      (14.50)        -        (115)       -      (1,015)   (1,000)        -         -      3,161,342     3,000        10,000      (12,000)            -                -

Repurchase of 1996
  preferred stock            (2.50)        -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -             -         -        (17,000)      (8,000)            -           (25,000)

Conversion of note
  payable into common
  stock                         -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -        200,000        -        100,000           -              -           100,000

Conversion of
  redemption payable
  into common stock             -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -      2,115,241     2,000       633,000           -              -           635,000

Exercise of warrants            -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -        400,000        -        123,000           -              -           123,000

Exercise of stock
  options                       -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -        256,384        -         27,000           -              -            27,000

Stock issued for
  services                      -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -          9,000        -          5,000           -              -             5,000

Stock options and
  warrants issued for
  services                      -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -             -         -      2,226,000           -              -         2,226,000

Net loss                        -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -             -         -             -            -      (4,847,000)      (4,847,000)

Dividends declared              -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -             -         -         (6,000)       6,000             -                -
                         ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------  --------- ---------  --------- ---------  ---------  --------   ----------- ---------   -----------   ----------    -----------    -------------

Balance - December 31,
1999                          1.00         -        5.00         -         185        -         817    1,000       1,995     2,000    27,642,691    27,000    20,329,000       25,000    (18,008,000)       2,376,000

Conversion of note
  payable into common
  stock                         -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -        800,000     1,000       399,000           -              -           400,000

Warrants issued in
  settlement                    -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -             -         -        238,000           -              -           238,000

Common stock issued in
  connection with ADC
  merger                        -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -         60,400        -        374,000           -              -           374,000

Preferred stock
  conversions                   -          -       (5.00)        -        (185)       -        (767)   (1,000)    (1,120)   (1,000)    4,564,000     5,000        18,000      (21,000)            -                -

Exercise of warrants            -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -      9,352,620     9,000     4,585,000           -              -         4,594,000

Exercise of stock
  options                       -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -      4,039,734     4,000     1,493,000           -              -         1,497,000

Stock options and
  warrants issued for
  services                      -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -             -         -        138,000           -              -           138,000

Cancellation of shares
  issued in error               -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -       (142,423)       -             -            -              -                -

Net loss                        -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -             -         -             -            -      (5,415,000)      (5,415,000)

Dividends declared              -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -             -         -         (1,000)       1,000             -                -
                         ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------  --------- ---------  --------- ---------  ---------  --------   ----------- ---------  ------------   ----------    -----------    -------------

Balance - December 31,
2000                          1.00         -          -          -          -         -          50        -         875  $  1,000    46,317,022 $  46,000  $ 27,573,000$       5,000   $(23,423,000)     $ 4,202,000

Exercise of options and
  warrants                      -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -      1,462,642     1,000       368,000           -              -           369,000

Warrants and in the
  money conversion
  feature issued with
  convertible note
  payable                       -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -             -         -        581,000           -              -           581,000

Stock issued on
  conversion of note
  payable                       -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -      2,618,066     3,000     2,823,000           -              -         2,826,000

Stock and warrants
  issued in private
  placement                     -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -      1,872,308     2,000     2,061,000           -              -         2,063,000

Preferred stock
  conversions                   -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -        (500)   (1,000)    1,000,000     1,000            -            -              -                -

Stock issued with
  equity line                   -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -      3,291,369     3,000     1,507,000           -              -         1,510,000

Stock issued in legal
  settlements                   -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -         90,000        -        285,000           -              -           285,000

Stock options and
  warrants issued for
  services                      -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -             -         -        145,000           -              -           145,000

Net loss                        -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -             -         -             -            -     (10,636,000)     (10,636,000)

Dividends declared              -          -          -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -             -         -         (2,000)       2,000             -                -
                         ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------  --------- ---------  --------- ---------  ---------  --------   ----------- ---------  ------------   ----------    -----------    -------------

Balance - December 31,
2001                          1.00  $      -          -   $      -          -  $      -          50 $      -         375  $     -     56,651,407 $  56,000  $ 35,341,000   $    7,000   $(34,059,000)     $ 1,345,000
                         =========  =========  =========  =========  ========= =========  ========= =========  =========  ========   =========== =========  ============   ==========   ============    =============



<PAGE>


                       <B>Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows</B>


                                                      For the Years Ended
                                                          December 31,
                                          -------------------------------------------
                                               2001           2000          1999
                                          -------------   ------------  -------------
Cash flows from operating activities
  Net loss                                $ (10,636,000)  $ (5,415,000) $  (4,847,000)
                                          -------------   ------------  -------------
  Adjustments to reconcile net loss to
   net cash used in operating activities
   Depreciation and amortization                488,000        426,000        243,000
   Impairment of intangible assets            1,111,000             -              -
   Financing costs                            2,428,000             -         238,000
   Common stock, options and warrants
     issued for settlements                     149,000             -              -
   Common stock, options and warrants
     issued for services                        145,000        376,000      2,231,000
   Discontinued operations                           -              -         299,000
   Gain on sale of staffing business                 -      (1,102,000)            -
   Change in net assets of discontinued
     operations                                      -         857,000     (1,243,000)
   Changes in assets and liabilities
     Accounts receivable, net                    49,000        (29,000)     2,046,000
     Prepaid expenses and other                (119,000)       (49,000)         5,000
     Accounts payable and accrued
      liabilities                               988,000       (237,000)    (2,141,000)
     Checks written in excess of bank
      balance                                        -              -         (72,000)
                                          -------------   ------------   ------------
                                              5,239,000        242,000      1,606,000
                                          -------------   ------------   ------------
      Net cash used in operating
       activities                            (5,397,000)    (5,173,000)    (3,241,000)
                                          -------------   ------------   ------------

Cash flows from investing activities
  Proceeds from sale of divisions                    -         500,000             -
  Software development costs incurred          (434,000)      (495,000)            -
  Purchase of property and equipment            (70,000)      (400,000)       (72,000)
  Purchase of software license                       -        (720,000)            -
  Proceeds from notes receivable                     -         500,000        563,000
  Business acquisition costs, net of
   cash acquired                                     -         (94,000)            -
                                          -------------   ------------   ------------
      Net cash (used in) provided by
       investing activities                    (504,000)      (709,000)       491,000
                                          -------------   ------------   ------------

Cash flows from financing activities
  Proceeds from issuance of debt and
   notes payable                              1,824,000        178,000        500,000
  Advances under financing agreement                 -              -      11,272,000
  Payments under financing agreement                 -        (484,000)   (11,781,000)
  Principal payments on debt and notes
   payable                                     (303,000)      (125,000)      (289,000)
  Issuance of preferred and common
   stock, net of offering costs               3,012,000             -       4,112,000
  Proceeds from the exercise of options
   and warrants                                 369,000      6,091,000        150,000
  Repurchase of preferred stock                      -              -         (25,000)
                                          -------------   ------------   ------------
      Net cash provided by financing
       activities                             4,902,000      5,660,000      3,939,000
                                          -------------   ------------   ------------

Net (decrease) increase in cash                (999,000)      (222,000)     1,189,000

Cash - beginning of year                      1,007,000      1,229,000         40,000
                                          -------------   ------------   ------------

Cash - end of year                        $       8,000   $  1,007,000   $  1,229,000
                                          =============   ============   ============

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:

Cash paid for:                      Interest
                                  ------------

    2001                          $     42,000
    2000                          $     21,000
    1999                          $    324,000

Supplemental disclosure of non-cash activity:
      Dividends  declared  payable in common stock were  $2,000,  $1,000 and $6,000
      for December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

      During 2001,  500 shares of the series C preferred  stock was converted  into
      1,000,000 shares of common stock.

      During 2001,  $1,500,000  note payable  advances under a credit  facility and
      $40,000 of accrued  interest  were  converted  and  redeemed  into  2,618,066
      shares of common stock.

      During 2001,  the Company  issued  90,000 shares of common stock and warrants
      valued at $285,000 in  connection  with  settlement  of certain legal claims,
      of which  $137,000  was an  adjustment  to  goodwill  related to the  Cymedix
      acquisition.

      During 2001, the Company  issued options and warrants  valued at $145,000 for
      services provided.

      During  2001,  the  Company  issued  829,168  warrants  valued at $506,000 in
      connection  with a  convertible  note payable  credit  facility.  The Company
      also recorded  $75,000 for the value of the in-the-money  conversion  feature
      on the debt.

      During 2001,  shares issued in private placements in connection with its note
      payable credit facility at below market prices resulted in financing costs of
      $448,000.

      During  2001,  shares  issued  for  conversions  and  redemptions  under  the
      convertible  notes payable  credit  facility at below market prices  resulted
      in financing costs of $1,286,000.

      During  2001,  the  Company  issued   warrants  in  connection  with  private
      placements of common stock in connection with its note payable credit facility
      valued at $415,000.

      During 2001,  the Company wrote off old payroll tax  liabilities  of $100,000
      assumed in the Cymedix acquisition which reduced goodwill.

      During 2000,  5.0 units of the 1997 preferred  stock,  185 shares of the 1999
      Series A preferred  stock,  767 shares of the Series B preferred  stock,  and
      1,120 shares of the series C preferred  stock were  converted  into 3,161,342
      shares of common stock.

      During  2000,   the  Company   acquired   the  assets  and  assumed   certain
      liabilities of a business from a related party (Note 4).

      During 2000, the Company  disposed of the remainder of its staffing  business
      (Note 2).

      During  2000,  the Company  converted a $400,000  note  payable  into 800,000
      shares of common stock.

      During 1999, the  Company  issued a $500,000  convertible  note  payable with
      warrants  to purchase  common  stock,  of which  $100,000  of  principal  was
      converted  into  200,000  shares of common  stock.  The warrant was valued at
      $238,000 and recorded as additional interest expense.

      During 1999, the Company  converted  $635,000 of preferred  stock  redemption
      payable into 2,115,241 shares of common stock.

      During  1999,  4.50 units of the 1996  preferred  stock,  14.50  units of the
      1997 preferred  stock,  1,015 shares of the 1999 series A preferred  stock, and
      1,015 shares of the series B preferred stock were  converted  into  3,161,342
      shares of common stock.




<B><U>Note 1 - Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies</U></B>

Medix  Resources,  Inc. and  subsidiary  (the  Company),  main business  focus is a
suite  of  fully  secure,   patented  Internet   communication   software  for  the
healthcare  industry.   The  Company  divested  its  remaining  healthcare  related
staffing businesses in February of 2000 (Note 3).

<U>Principles of Consolidation</U>

The accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements include the accounts of Medix
Resources,  Inc.  and its  subsidiary,  Cymedix  Lynx  Corporation  (Cymedix).  All
intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

<U>Use of Estimates</U>

The preparation of financial  statements in conformity  with accounting  principles
generally  accepted in the United  States of America  requires  management  to make
estimates  and  assumptions   that  affect  the  reported  amounts  of  assets  and
liabilities,  disclosures of contingent  assets and  liabilities at the date of the
financial  statements and the reported  amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.

<U>Concentrations of Credit Risk</U>

The Company  grants  credit in the normal  course of business to  customers  in the
United States. The Company  periodically  performs credit analysis and monitors the
financial condition of its customers to reduce credit risk.

<U>Fair Value of Financial Instruments</U>

The  carrying  amounts of  financial  instruments  including  accounts  receivable,
notes  receivable,  accounts  payable and accrued expenses  approximate  their fair
value as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 due to  the  relatively  short  maturity  of
these instruments.

The  carrying  amounts of notes  payable  and debt  issued  approximate  their fair
value as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 because interest rates on these  instruments
approximate market interest rates.

<U>Revenue Recognition</U>

The Company  recognizes  revenue on its Internet  connectivity  solutions  software
business as services are provided.

<U>Income Taxes</U>

The  Company   recognizes   deferred  tax  liabilities  and  assets  based  on  the
differences  between  the tax basis of assets and  liabilities  and their  reported
amounts in the  financial  statements  that will  result in  taxable or  deductible
amounts in future  years.  The Company's  temporary  differences  result  primarily
from capitalized  software  development costs,  depreciation and amortization,  and
net operating loss carryforwards.

<U>Property and Equipment</U>

Property and equipment is stated at cost.  Depreciation  is provided  utilizing the
straight-line  method over the  estimated  useful lives for owned  assets,  ranging
from 3 to 7 years.

<U>Software Development Costs</U>

The Company  applies the provisions of Statement of Position 98-1,  "Accounting for
Costs of Computer  Software  Developed for Internal Use". The Company  accounts for
costs  incurred in the  development of computer  software as software  research and
development  costs until the preliminary  project stage is completed.  Direct costs
incurred  in the  development  of software  are  capitalized  once the  preliminary
project  stage is  completed,  management  has committed to funding the project and
completion  and use of the  software  for its intended  purpose are  probable.  The
Company  ceases  capitalization  of  development  costs once the  software has been
substantially  completed  and is ready for its intended use.  Software  development
costs  are  amortized  over  their  estimated  useful  lives of five  years.  Costs
associated with upgrades and enhancements  that result in additional  functionality
are capitalized.

<U>Financing Costs</U>

The  company   records  as  financing   costs  in  its   statement  of   operations
amortization  of  in-the-money  conversion  features on convertible  debt accounted
for in  accordance  with  EITF  98-5 and  00-27,  amortization  of  discounts  from
warrants   issued   with  debt  securities  in  accordance  with  APB  No.  14  and
amortization of discounts resulting  from  other  securities  issued in  connection
with  debt  based  on  their relative fair values,  and any value  associated  with
inducements to convert debt in accordance with FASB 84.

<U>Intangible assets</U>

Intangible  assets are stated at cost,  and  consist  of  goodwill,  which is being
amortized using the straight-line method over fifteen years.

The  Company  reviews  its  long-lived  asset  for  impairment  whenever  events or
changes in  circumstances  indicate  that the carrying  amount of the asset may not
be recovered.  The Company looks  primarily to the  undiscounted  future cash flows
of  its  acquisition  in  its  assessment  of  whether  or not  goodwill  has  been
impaired.

<U>Reclassifications</U>

Certain amounts in the 2000 and 1999  consolidated  financial  statements have been
reclassified to conform to the 2001 presentation.

<U>Advertising Costs</U>

The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred.

Advertising  expenses were $23,000, $36,000 and $45,000 for the years ended December
31, 2001, 2000 and 1999.

<U>Basic Loss Per Share</U>

The Company  applies the provisions of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standard
No. 128,  "Earnings  Per Share" (FAS 128).  All dilutive  potential  common  shares
have an  antidilutive  effect on diluted per share amounts and therefore  have been
excluded in determining  net loss per share.  The Company's  basic and diluted loss
per  share  are  equivalent  and  accordingly  only  basic  loss per share has been
presented.

For the  years  ended  December  31,  2001,  2000 and  1999  total  stock  options,
warrants and  convertible  debt and preferred  stock of 14,693,254,  13,767,143 and
23,109,003,  were not  included  in the  computation  of  diluted  loss  per  share
because  their  effect was  antidilutive,  however,  if the company were to achieve
profitable operations in the future, they could potentially dilute such earnings.

<U>Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements</U>

In July 2001,  the FASB issued SFAS Nos. 141 and 142 " Business  Combinations " and
" Goodwill  and other  Intangible  Assets ".  Statement  141  requires all business
combinations  initiated  after June 30, 2001 to be accounted for using the purchase
method.  Under the  guidance of  Statement  142,  goodwill is no longer  subject to
amortization  over its estimated useful life.  Rather,  goodwill will be subject to
at least an annual  assessment  for  impairment by applying a fair value base test.
Statement 142 is effective for financial  statement  dates  beginning after January
1, 2001.  Goodwill  will be tested for  impairment  at the time of adoption  and on
an annual  basis.  As allowed  under  Statement  142, the Company will complete its
goodwill  impairment  test  within the first six months of the  fiscal  year.  As a
result of Statement  142, the Company will no longer be  recognizing  approximately
$155,000 in annual amortization expense related to goodwill.

In August  2001,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 143,  "Accounting  for Asset  Retirement
Obligations."  SFAS No. 143  requires  the fair value of a  liability  for an asset
retirement  obligation  to be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if a
reasonable  estimate of fair value can be made.  The  associated  asset  retirement
costs are  capitalized  as part of the  carrying  amount of the  long-lived  asset.
SFAS No. 143 is  effective  for the Company for fiscal years  beginning  after June
15,  2002.  The  Company  believes  the  adoption  of this  statement  will have no
material impact on its consolidated financial statements.

In October 2001,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 144,  "Accounting  for the Impairment or
Disposal  of  Long-Lived  Assets."  SFAS No. 144  requires  that  those  long-lived
assets be  measured at the lower of  carrying  amount or fair  value,  less cost to
sell,  whether  reported  in  continuing  operations  or  discontinued  operations.
Therefore,  discontinued  operations  will no longer be measured at net  realizable
value or include  amounts for  operating  losses that have not yet  occurred.  SFAS
No. 144 is effective for  financial  statements  issued for fiscal years  beginning
after December 15, 2001 and, generally, is to be applied prospectively.



<B><U>Note 2 - Going Concern</U></B>

The accompanying  financial  statements have been prepared on a going concern basis
which  contemplates  the  realization  of assets and  liquidation of liabilities in
the ordinary course of business.

<U>Management's Plan for Continued Existence</U>

The  Company  has  incurred  operating  losses  for the  past  several  years,  the
majority  of which are  related  to the  development  of the  Company's  healthcare
connectivity  technology and were fully  anticipated  by  management.  These losses
have produced operating cash flow deficiencies, and negative working capital  which
raise  substantial  doubt  about  its  ability  to  continue  as  a going  concern.
Management has secured an equity line of credit, as further  described  in  Note 8,
and  management  is presently  in  discussions  regarding  alternative  sources  of
additional  equity  capital,  which  would  enable  the Company to continue to fund
operations until such time as revenues from the  Company's  internet  communication
products  for  the  healthcare  industry  will  be  sufficient to fund  operations.
Management reports that progress continues with regard to new  strategic  alliances
with  major  healthcare  organizations  as  well  as  in  advancing  the  Company's
existing  alliances  from the "pilot program" stage toward the "production contract
stage".


<B><U>Note 3 - Discontinued Operations</U></B>

In February  2000,  the Company  closed on the sale of the assets of its  remaining
staffing  businesses  for  $1,000,000.  The purchase  price was paid with  $500,000
cash  at  closing  and  the  Company   receiving  a  $500,000   subordinated   note
receivable.  The note  provided  for  interest  at prime plus 1% and was due in May
of 2001.  The note was repaid on December  29,  2000.  This sale was the final step
of a plan  approved by the board of directors  in December  1999 for the Company to
divest  itself of the  staffing  businesses  and focus its efforts on its  internet
communication software products for the healthcare industry.

The  accompanying  financial  statements  reflect the results of  operations of the
remaining   staffing   businesses  as  a   discontinued   business   segment.   The
discontinued  results of  operations  include  those  direct  revenues and expenses
associated  with  running  the  remaining   staffing   businesses  as  well  as  an
allocation of corporate costs.

The  results  of  operations  of  the  Company's  discontinued  remaining  staffing
businesses are as follows:

                                                             For the Years Ended
                                                                 December 31,
                                                         ---------------------------
                                                              2000          1999
                                                         ---------------------------

Revenue                                                  $   1,128,000  $ 10,812,000
Direct costs of services                                       927,000     8,472,000
                                                         ---------------------------
Gross margin                                                   201,000     2,340,000
                                                         ---------------------------
Selling, general and administrative                            219,000     2,193,000
Interest expense                                                18,000       446,000
Litigation settlement                                          137,000            -
                                                         ---------------------------

Net loss                                                 $    (173,000) $   (299,000)
                                                         ===========================

During the fourth  quarter  of 2000,  the  Company  wrote off  unrealizable  assets
related to the  discontinued  operations in the amount of $43,000,  and $322,000 in
remaining  related  liabilities.  The  net  write-off  of  assets  and  liabilities
totaling $279,000,  less net assets acquired by the purchaser of $77,000,  has been
recorded  as an  increase  of  $202,000  to  the  gain  from  the  disposal  of the
remaining staffing businesses as of December 31, 2000.

During the first quarter of 2000,  the Company  reported the following  gain on the
disposal of the assets of its remaining staffing businesses:


Sales price                                              $  1,000,000
Accounts receivable collection costs                         (100,000)
                                                         ------------
                                                              900,000
Net assets acquired, liabilities assumed and
liabilities written off                                       202,000
                                                         ------------
Gain on disposal of the remaining staffing businesses       1,102,000
Loss from operation of the remaining staffing
businesses through the disposal date                         (173,000)
                                                         ------------

Net gain on disposal of the remaining staffing
businesses                                               $    929,000
                                                         ============

Also as  previously  noted the  purchaser  did not acquire the  Company's  accounts
receivable  as  part of the  sale.  However,  in  connection  with  the  sale,  the
purchaser  will  collect the  Company's  receivables  and remit the proceeds to the
Company net of a 10% collection fee. The $100,000  reflected  above  represents the
Company's  estimate of the collection  costs to be paid to purchaser for performing
this function.



<B><U>Note 4 - Acquisition of Assets</U></B>

On  March  1,  2000,  the  Company   purchased  the  assets  and  assumed   certain
liabilities of Automated  Design  Concepts,  Inc., an entity owned by a director of
the Company,  for the issuance of 60,400  shares of common stock valued at $374,000
and a payment of  $100,000.  The Company  also  entered  into a two-year  lease for
$1,000 per month  expiring in February  2002.  Assets  purchased  include  cash and
accounts receivable.

The purchase was accounted for under the purchase  method.  The purchase  price was
allocated  to the  assets  purchased  and  liabilities  assumed  based  on the fair
market values at the date of acquisition as follows:

Cash                                                     $      6,000
Accounts receivable                                            27,000
Goodwill                                                      487,000
Accounts payable                                              (41,000)
Accrued liabilities                                            (5,000)
                                                         ------------

                                                         $    474,000
                                                         ============

The  results  of  operations  have  been  reflected  from the  date of  acquisition
forward.  The resulting goodwill is being amortized over 15 years.

During  the third  quarter  of 2001,  the  Company  discontinued  operation  of its
Automated  Design  Concepts  division to focus on its core  business  and as a cost
saving  measure.  As a result,  $443,000 of  impairment  expense has been  included
in  Consolidated  Statements  of Operations  for the year ended  December 31, 2001.
This amount  represents  the  unamortized  balance of the investment at the time of
discontinuance.

The  following  table  summarizes  the  unaudited  pro forma results of the Company
giving  effect to the  acquisition  as if it had  occurred on January 1, 2000.  The
unaudited pro forma  information  is not  necessarily  indicative of the results of
operations  of the Company had this  acquisition  occurred at the  beginning of the
years presented, nor is it necessarily indicative of future results.

                                                             For the Years Ended
                                                                 December 31,
                                                         ---------------------------
                                                              2000          1999
                                                         ---------------------------

Sales                                                    $     440,000  $    569,000
                                                         ===========================

Net income (loss)                                        $  (5,408,000) $ (4,816,000)
                                                         ===========================

Loss per share                                           $       (0.13) $      (0.20)
                                                         ===========================


<B><U>Note 5 - Balance Sheet Disclosures</U></B>

Software development costs consist of the following:
                                                                 December 31,
                                                         ---------------------------
                                                              2001          2000
                                                         ---------------------------
Software development costs                               $     929,000 $     495,000
Less accumulated amortization                                 (280,000)     (124,000)
                                                         ---------------------------
                                                         $     649,000 $     371,000
                                                         ===========================

Annual  amortization  expense,  which is included in costs of services provided was
$156,000  and   $124,000   for  the  years  ended   December  31,  2001  and  2000,
respectively.

Property and equipment consists of the following:
                                                                 December 31,
                                                         ---------------------------
                                                              2001          2000
                                                         ---------------------------
Furniture and fixtures                                   $     103,000 $      91,000
Computer hardware and purchased software                       609,000       552,000
Leasehold improvements                                          29,000        28,000
                                                         ---------------------------
                                                               741,000       671,000
Less property, plant and equipment - accumulated
 depreciation                                                 (376,000)     (253,000)
                                                         ---------------------------
                                                         $     365,000 $     418,000
                                                         ===========================

Depreciation expense was $123,000, $97,000 and $86,000 for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.


Intangible assets consist of the following:
                                                                 December 31,
                                                         ---------------------------
                                                              2001          2000
                                                         ---------------------------
Goodwill acquired through Cymedix acquisition            $   2,369,000 $   2,332,000
Goodwill acquired through the Automated Design
 Concepts, Inc. acquisition                                         -        487,000
License agreement with ZirMed.com                                   -        720,000
                                                         ---------------------------
                                                             2,369,000     3,539,000
Less accumulated amortization                                 (634,000)     (520,000)
                                                         ---------------------------
                                                         $   1,735,000 $   3,019,000
                                                         ===========================

Amortization expense was $209,000, $205,000, and $157,000 for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.


During  the third  quarter  of 2001,  the  Company  discontinued  operation  of its
Automated  Design  Concepts,  division,  and terminated its license  agreement with
ZirMed.com.  As a result,  $1,111,000  of  impairment  expense has been included in
the  Consolidated  Statements of Operations  for the year ended  December 31, 2001.
This amount  represents the  unamortized  balance of each investment at the time of
discontinuance.

Accrued expenses consists of the following:
                                                                 December 31,
                                                         ---------------------------
                                                              2001          2000
                                                         ---------------------------
Accrued payroll and benefits                             $     294,000 $     310,000
Accrued professional fees                                       57,000        60,000
Accrued license fees                                            53,000            -
Other accrued expenses                                          29,000        21,000
Accrued interest                                                17,000            -
                                                         ---------------------------
                                                         $     450,000 $     391,000
                                                         ===========================

At various  times  during  2001,  the  Company  was  delinquent  with  payroll  tax
deposits.  At December 31, 2001 and 2000,  $131,000 and $200,000,  respectively was
accrued for  estimated  taxes,  interest and  penalties.  During 2001,  the Company
wrote off $100,000 of previously  recorded accrued payroll tax liabilities  assumed
in the Cymedix  acquisition  as management  determined the Company was over accrued
and has recorded the write-off as an adjustment to previously recorded goodwill.



<B><U>Note 6 - Long-Term Debt</U></B>

Long-term debt consists of:
                                                                 December 31,
                                                         ---------------------------
                                                              2001          2000
                                                         ---------------------------
Notes  payable - finance  company,  interest  accrues at
 7%,  monthly  payments  of  principal  and  interest of
 $23,730 are payable through July 2002.                  $     140,000 $     115,000

Notes  payable - finance  company,  interest  accrues at
 7%,  monthly  payments  of  principal  and  interest of
 $1,417 are payable through October 2002.                       18,000        22,000
                                                         ---------------------------
                                                               158,000       137,000
      Less current portion                                    (158,000)     (137,000)
                                                         ---------------------------

                                                         $          -  $          -
                                                         ===========================

<U>Convertible Promissory Note</U>

In  October  1999,  the  Company  raised  approximately  $488,000  net of  expenses
through the issuance of a $500,000  14%  Convertible  Promissory  Note and warrants
to purchase  500,000  shares of the Company's  common stock at $.50 per share.  The
$500,000 in  principal  plus accrued  interest  was payable on June 28,  2000.  The
note was  convertible  into the  Company's  common stock at a  conversion  price of
$.50 per  share,  for the first 90 days  outstanding,  and at the lower of $.50 per
share or 80% of the lowest  closing bid price for the Common  Stock during the last
five trading days prior to  conversion,  for the  remaining  life of the note.  The
note was  secured  by the  intellectual  property  of the  Company's  wholly  owned
subsidiary  Cymedix Lynx  Corporation.  The warrants were recorded as a discount on
the debt valued at $238,000  using the  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model using
assumptions  of life of 3 years,  volatility  of 225%, no dividend  payment,  and a
risk-free  rate of 5.5%.  The  discount  was fully  amortized at December 31, 1999,
as the  remaining  debt of $400,000 at December 31, 1999,  was converted in January
2000 into 800,000 shares of common stock and the security interest released.

<U>Convertible Note Payable Credit Facility</U>

In December  2000, the Company  obtained a credit  facility under which it issued a
convertible  promissory  note  and  common  stock  purchase  warrants.  The  credit
facility  provided  that the Company could draw against this facility in increments
as follows:  $750,000  upon  closing,  which  occurred  January 10, 2001;  $250,000
within 10 days of an effective  registration  statement,  which  occurred  February
13, 2001;  and $500,000  draws at the 60th day, 90th day and the 150th day from the
effective  registration  statement.  These  advances  could  be  made  only  if the
Company's  common stock price  remained  above $1 for five  business  days prior to
the draw.  During the draw down  periods,  the Company  drew  $1,500,000  under the
convertible  note.  Advances under the convertible  note bear interest at an annual
rate of 10% and provide for  semi-annual  payments on July 10, 2001 and January 10,
2002. All outstanding  balances under this  arrangement  were converted or redeemed
during 2001 into common shares.  The note payable  balance was  convertible at $.90
per share for up to the  first  $750,000  and any  remaining  balance  at $1.00 per
share.  The  initial  $750,000  draw on this  arrangement  has an imputed  discount
recorded,  which was valued at $75,000 for the  "in-the-money"  conversion  feature
of the first  advance.  In addition,  the  noteholder can force a redemption of the
note or any  portion  thereof,  for  either  cash or  stock  at the  option  of the
Company,  but if for stock,  at a redemption  price of eighty (80%)  percent of the
Volume  Weighted  Market  Price (as  defined)  per common  share  during the twenty
Trading Days ending on the day of the notice delivered by the holder.

In  connection  with  this  credit  facility,  the  Company  also  agreed  to issue
warrants  to  purchase  common  stock to the holder of the  convertible  promissory
note. The Company issued 750,000  warrants in connection  with drawdowns  under the
convertible  note.  The warrants  have an exercise  price of $1.75 and terms of two
years from the date of  issuance.  The  Company  also  issued  54,167  warrants  to
purchase  common stock to two finders  assisting with the  transaction.  The finder
warrants also have terms of two years and an exercise price of $1.75.

The Company has imputed  values for the 750,000 and 54,168  warrants  issued to the
provider of the credit  facility  and the finders  using the  Black-Scholes  Option
pricing  model.  The first  500,000  warrants  issued to the provider of the credit
facility  were valued at $249,000  and have been  treated as a discount on the debt
to be amortized  over its remaining  life. The related  54,168  warrants  issued to
finders  which  have been  recorded  as debt  issue  costs and  amortized  over the
remaining  life  of  the  debt.  In  connection  with  the  final  draw  under  the
credit  facility in May,  the Company  issued  250,000  warrants to the provider of
the credit  facility.  The 250,000  warrants  issued to the  provider of the credit
facility  were valued at $209,000  using the  Black-Scholes  pricing model and have
been treated as a discount on the debt to be  amortized  over its  remaining  life.
In connection  with the final draw under the credit  facility,  The Company  issued
warrants  to  purchase  25,000  shares  issued to the  finders.  The  total  finder
warrants  have  been  valued at  $48,000  using  the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing
model,  and have been  treated as a discount on the debt to be  amortized  over its
remaining  life.  The  values of all  warrants  issued  under  this  facility  were
determined  using the following  assumptions;  lives of two years,  exercise prices
of $1.75, volatility of 117%, no dividend payment and a risk-free rate of 5.5%.

During February 2001,  $100,000 of the convertible  note was converted into 111,111
shares of common  stock.  During the period April  through  September,  $900,000 of
the  note was  redeemed.  These  redemptions  were  satisfied  by the  issuance  of
1,384,661  shares of common  stock.  During  October 2001,  the remaining  $500,000
convertible  note was  redeemed  by the  issuance  of  1,069,368  shares  of common
stock.  During July 2001,  52,928  shares of common  stock was issued as payment of
accrued  interest of $40,000  through  July 10,  2001.  As a result of  conversions
and  redemptions at modified conversion prices  $1,286,000 of financing  costs were
recorded  reflecting  the  intrinsic  value  of the share differences from issuable
shares at the date the advances were received.

During  March  2001,  the  Company,  under an  amendment  to its  convertible  note
payable credit facility,  received  $350,000 from the credit facility  provider for
the  issuance  of  636,364  shares  of its  common  stock  as a  private  placement
transaction.  As  a  part  of  this  common  stock  issuance,  the  Company  issued
warrants to purchase  636,364  shares of common stock at $.80 per share with a term
of two years from the date of issuance.  As a result of the warrant  issuance,  the
Company has recorded  financing  expense of $262,000 in the accompanying  financial
statements,   using  the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model.  The  company  also
issued  warrants to purchase  63,636  shares of common stock at $.80 per share with
a  term  of two  years  to two  finders  assisting  the  transaction.  The  finders
warrants  have been valued at $40,000  using the  Black-Scholes  pricing  model and
have been included as financing  costs in the  accompanying  financial  statements.
The  calculated  values were computed using the following  assumptions:  lives of 2
years,  exercise  prices of $.80,  volatility of 117%,  no dividend  payments and a
risk free rate of 5.5%.

During the period May through December 2001, the Company received  $850,000,  under
a second  amendment to the credit  facility,  for the issuance of 1,235,944  shares
of its common stock, in additional  private  placement  transactions.  As a part of
these common  stock  issuances,  the Company  issued  warrants to purchase  168,919
shares of common  stock at $1.00 per share  with a term of two years  from the date
of issuance.  The Company has recorded  finanacing  expense of $113,000  related to
the  warrant  issuance  in  the  accompanying   financial  statements,   using  the
Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model. The calculated values were computed using the
following  assumptions:  lives of 2 years,  exercise prices of $.80,  volatility of
117%, no dividend payments and a risk free rate of 5.5%.

As a result of shares issued under the private  placements at below market  prices,
which  have been  treated as a  discount  on the debt  based on their  fair  market
values at issuance, financing costs of $448,000 have been recorded.



<B><U>Note 7 - Commitments and Contingencies</U></B>

<U>Operating Leases</U>

The  Company  leases  office  facilities  in New York,  New  Jersey,  Colorado  and
California and various equipment under non-cancelable operating leases.

Rent expense for these leases was:

                       Year Ending December 31,
                       ------------------------

                                 2001                                  $     396,000
                                 2000                                  $     315,000
                                 1999                                  $     293,000

Future minimum lease payments under these leases are approximately as follows:

                       Year Ending December 31,
                       ------------------------
                                 2002                                  $     550,000
                                 2003                                        413,000
                                 2004                                        309,000
                                 2005                                         26,000
                                                                       -------------
                                                                       $   1,298,000
                                                                       =============

<U>Litigation</U>

In the normal course of business,  the Company is party to litigation  from time to
time. The Company  maintains  insurance to cover certain  actions and believes that
resolution  of such  litigation  will not have a  material  adverse  effect  on the
Company.

During the fourth  quarter of 1997,  an action was filed against the Company in the
Eastern  District  of New York  under the  caption  New York  Healthcare,  Inc.  v.
International  Nursing  Services,  Inc.,  et al. On February 15, 2000,  the Company
agreed in principle to settle this claim. In connection  with the  settlement,  the
Company  issued a warrant  to  purchase  35,000 of the  Company's  common  stock at
$3.96 per share. The Company  recorded  expense of  approximately  $137,000 related
to the  issuance  of the  warrant,  which  has  been  included  in the  results  of
discontinued   operations.   The  warrants  were  valued  using  the  Black-Scholes
pricing model,  using  assumptions of volatility of 273%, no dividend  payments and
a risk free rate of 5.5%.

On November 12, 1999, an action was filed in California  Superior Court,  which has
since been removed to the U. S. District  Court,  Central  District of  California,
against  Medix  Resources,  Inc.  and its wholly  owned  subsidiary,  Cymedix  Lynx
Corporation.  As of November 3, 2000, a settlement  agreement  was reached  between
the  Company and the  plaintiff  whereby the  company  paid the  plaintiff  $66,000
cash,  and issued an option to purchase  50,000 of the  Company's  common  stock at
$.25 per share.  The Company  recorded  expense of  approximately  $102,000 related
to the  issuance of the option.  The warrants  were valued using the  Black-Scholes
pricing model,  using  assumptions of volatility of 273%, no dividend  payments and
a risk free rate of 5.5%.

On June 1, 2000,  an action was filed in the District  Court of the City and County
of  Denver,  Colorado,   against  Medix  Resources,   Inc.,  and  its  wholly-owned
subsidiary,  Cymedix  Lynx  Corporation,  alleging  that a  predecessor  company of
Cymedix Lynx  Corporation  had promised to issue stock options to the plaintiff but
had failed to honor  that  promise.  On June 15,  2001,  the matter was  settled by
paying the  plaintiff  $35,000  and  issuing  to him 2 year  warrants  to  purchase
195,000  shares of the  Company's  common stock at $.50 per share.  The  settlement
was  approved  by the  court on July 6,  2001.  The case  has been  dismissed  with
prejudice.  The  warrants  issued in this  settlement  have been valued at $137,000
using the  Black-Scholes  pricing model,  using  assumptions of volatility of 132%,
no dividend  payments and a risk-free  rate of 5.5%,  and have been  included as an
increase to goodwill in the accompanying  financial  statements,  as a result of an
unrecorded liability that existed at the time of the Cymedix merger.

On July 11,  2000,  an  action  was  filed in the  United  States  District  Court,
Southern  District of New York,  against Medix Resources,  Inc.,  alleging that the
Company  granted to plaintiff  the right to purchase  preferred  stock  convertible
into the  Company's  common  stock and warrants to purchase  the  Company's  common
stock in connection  with the Company's  private  financings  during 1999, and then
failed to permit  plaintiff  to exercise  that right.  On May 2, 2001,  the Company
agreed to settle the matter by paying  the  plaintiff  $20,000  and  issuing  him a
three year warrant  (issued over a 18 month period) to purchase  137,500  shares of
the Company's  common stock at $.50 per share.  The  settlement was approved by the
Court on May 3, 2001.  The case has been  dismissed  with  prejudice.  The warrants
issued in this  settlement  have been  valued at  $64,000  using the  Black-Scholes
pricing model, using assumptions of volatility of 132%, no dividend payments, and a
risk-free rate of 5.5%, and have been included  as an  expense  in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations.

On September  27, 2000, an action was filed in the United  States  District  Court,
Eastern  District of New York,  against  Medix  Resources,  Inc.  alleging that the
Company  failed to properly and fully convert the Company's  convertible  preferred
stock held by one of the  Plaintiffs,  and had failed to maintain the  registration
for public sale with the  Securities and Exchange  Commission of shares  underlying
warrants held by both  Plaintiffs.  The Company  settled the  litigation by issuing
to one plaintiff  90,000 shares of the Company's  common stock,  valued at $51,000,
and  extending  the exercise  period of the warrants of the other  plaintiff  until
December  31,  2003,  valued at  $33,000.  The shares and  warrants  issued in this
settlement have been valued at $84,000 using the  Black-Scholes  pricing model, for
the modification to the warrant,  using assumptions of a life of 2 years,  exercise
price of $1.00,  volatility of 132%, no dividend  payments and a risk-free  rate of
5.5%,  and have been  included  as an  expense  in the  Consolidated  Statement  of
Operations.

On  August  7,  2001,  a former  officer  of the  Company  filed an  action  in the
District  Court of Arapahoe  County,  Colorado,  against the Company and its former
President  and CEO. The plaintiff  alleges (1) breach of an  employment  agreement,
a stock option  agreement  and the related  stock  option plan,  (2) a duty of good
faith  and  fair  dealing,  and (3)  violation  of the  Colorado  Wage  Claim  Act.
Plaintiff's  seeks  unspecified  damages to be determined at jury trail,  including
interest,  punitive  damages,  plaintiff's  attorney  fees, and a 50% penalty under
the Colorado  Wage Claim Act. The Company and its  co-defendants  have answered the
plaintiff's  complaint,  denying  any  liability.  The  court set  discovery  to be
completed  by July  31,  2002,  and the  trial  to  begin  on  September  9,  2002.
Management of the Company  intends to vigorously  defend this action,  and does not
expect  any  resolution  of this  matter to have a material  adverse  effect on the
Company's  financial  condition or results of  operation.  Currently an estimate of
possible  loss to the Company if  unsucessful  in defending  this action  cannot be
made.

On December 17, 2001, Plantiff,  Vision Management  Consulting,  L.L.C., filed suit
against us in the  Superior  Court of New  Jersey,  Law  Division  - Essex  County,
entitled Vision Managment Consulting,  L.L.C. v. Medix Resources,  Inc., Docket No.
ESX-L-11438-01.  The  complaint  alleges  breach of  contract,  unjust  enrichment,
breach  of duty in good  faith and fair  dealing  and  misrepresentations  by us in
connection with a negotiated settlement  agreement,  which had resulted from claims
between the parties  arising out of the  termination of operations by our Automated
Design Concepts division earlier in 2001.  Plaintiff seeks  unspecified  damages to
be proven at jury trial,  together with attorneys fees,  costs of suit and interest
on  judgement,  as well  as  such  further  relief  as the  Court  deems  just  and
equitable.  We have answered the plaintiff's  complaint,  denying any liability and
setting  forth a  counterclaim  seeking  the award to us of our costs of  defending
this  action  and  such  further  relief  as  the  Court  deems  just  and  proper.
Management  intends  to  vigorously  defend  this  action  and does not  expect any
resolution  of this  matter to have a  material  adverse  effect  on the  Company's
results of  operations or financial  condition.  The Court has appointed a mediator
for the case to try to  facilitate a settlement  between the parties.  Currently an
estimate of possible loss to the Company if  unsucessful  in defending  this action
cannot be made.



<U><B>Note 8 - Stockholders' Equity</B></U>

On March 20, 2000, the Company authorized 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock.

<U>1996 Private Placement</U>

In July and  September  1996,  the  Company  completed a private  placement  of 244
units,  each unit  consisting of a share of convertible  preferred  stock,  $10,000
per unit,  $1 par value  ("1996  Preferred  Stock"),  a warrant to  purchase  8,000
shares  of the  Company's  common  stock at $2.50  per  share  and a unit  purchase
option to purchase an additional unit at $10,000 per unit.

During  1998,  18.25  units  were  converted   resulting  in  the  issuance  of  an
additional 939,320 shares of common stock in 1998.

During  1999 4.5  units  were  converted  into  241,072  shares  of  common  stock.
Additionally,   the  Company  repurchased  from  another  holder  2.5  units  in  a
negotiated  agreement for $25,000.  The Company has 1.0 remaining  unit of its 1996
preferred  stock  outstanding  at December 31, 2001 and 2000.  The  remaining  unit
may be converted into the Company's  common stock  including  accrued  dividends at
the lesser of $1.25 per common  share or 75% of the prior five day trading  average
of the Company's common stock.

<U>1997 Private Placement</U>

In January and February 1997, the Company  completed a private  placement of 167.15
Units,  each unit consisting of one share of convertible  preferred stock,  $10,000
per unit, $1 par value,  "1997 Preferred  Stock",  and a warrant to purchase 10,000
shares of common stock at $1.00 per share.

In 1998,  5.0 units were  converted  resulting in the issuance of 178,950 shares of
common stock.

During 1999 14.5 units were converted  into 572,694 shares of common stock.  During
2000, the remaining 5.0 units were converted into 50,000 shares of common stock.

<U>1999 Private Placement</U>

During  1999,  the  Company  initiated  three  private  placement   offerings  each
consisting  of one  share of  preferred  stock  (as  designated)  and  warrants  to
purchase  common stock.  There are no dividends  payable on the preferred  stock if
a  registration  statement  is filed by a certain date as specified in the offering
agreements  and  remains  effective  for  a  two  year  period.  If  dividends  are
payable,  the  preferred  stock will  provide for a 10% dividend per annum for each
day  during  which the  registration  statement  is not  effective.  The  preferred
shares are also  redeemable  at the option of the Company after a date as specified
in  the  offering   agreements  for  $1,000  per  share  plus  any  accrued  unpaid
dividends.  In addition,  if a registration  statement is not effective by the date
as specified in the offering  agreements  the shares may be redeemed at the request
of the holder at $1,000 per share plus any accrued unpaid dividends.

The first  private  placement  consisted of 300 shares of Series A preferred  stock
each with 1,000  warrants  for $1,000 per unit,  which  raised  total  proceeds  of
$300,000.  The  warrants  included  with each unit  entitle  the holder to purchase
common  shares at $1.00 per share,  expiring  in October  1,  2000.  The  preferred
shares are  currently  convertible  into  common  shares at $.25 per  common  share
through  March 1, 2003.  During 1999,  115 shares of Series A preferred  stock were
converted  into  460,000  common  shares.  During  2000,  185  shares  of  Series A
preferred  stock were converted  into 740,000  common  shares.  All of the warrants
included with the Series A preferred stock were exercised in 2000.

The  second  private  placement  consisted  of 1,832  shares of Series B  preferred
stock each with 2,000  warrants for $1,000 per unit,  which  raised total  proceeds
of  $1,816,500  (net of  offering  costs of  $15,500).  The  Company  also issued a
warrant to purchase  50,000  shares of common stock at $.50,  which  expires in May
2002,  for  services  rendered  in  connection  with  the  private  placement.  The
warrants  included  with each unit entitle the holder to purchase  common shares at
$.50 per share,  expiring in October 1, 2003.  The  preferred  shares are currently
convertible  into common shares at $.50 per common share  through  October 1, 2003.
During  1999,  1,015  shares  of  Series B  preferred  stock  were  converted  into
2,030,000  common  shares.  During  2000,  767 shares of Series B  preferred  stock
were  converted  into  1,534,000  common  shares.  The warrants are callable by the
Company for $.01 upon thirty days  written  notice.  The Company has not called any
of these warrants as of the date hereof.

The third private  placement  consisted of 1,995 shares of Series C preferred stock
each with 4,000  warrants  for $1,000 per unit,  which  raised  total  proceeds  of
$1,995,000.  The  warrants,  included  with  each  unit,  entitled  the  holder  to
purchase  common  shares  at $.50  per  share,  expiring  in  April  1,  2003.  The
preferred  shares are  convertible  beginning  April 1, 2000 into common  shares at
$.50 per common share  through April 1, 2003.  During 2000,  1,120 shares of Series
C preferred  stock were converted into  2,240,000  common shares.  During 2001, 500
shares of Series C preferred  stock were converted into 1,000,000  shares of common
stock.  After  April 1, 2000,  the  warrants  are  callable by the Company for $.01
upon  thirty  days  written  notice.  The  Company  has  not  called  any of  these
warrants as of the date hereof.

<U>Equity Line </U>

The Company has entered  into an Equity Line of Credit  Agreement  dated as of June
12,  2001,  which  provides  that the Company can put to the  provider,  subject to
certain  conditions,  the  purchase  of  common  stock  of the  Company  at  prices
calculated  from a formula as defined in the agreement.  Under the  agreement,  the
providers  of the Equity  Line of Credit have  committed  to advance to the Company
funds in an  amount of up to  $10,000,000,  as  requested  by the  Company,  over a
24-month  period  in  return  for  common  stock  issued  by  the  Company  to  the
providers.  The  principal  conditions  to any such  advance,  which may be waived,
are as follows:

o     There must be thirteen  stock  market  trading  days between any two requests
for advances made by the Company.

o     The  Company  can only  request an advance  if the  volume  weighted  average
price of the common  stock as reported  by  Bloomberg  L.P.  for the day before the
request is made is equal to or greater than the volume  weighted  average  price as
reported by Bloomberg L.P. for the 22 trading days before a request is made.

o     The  Company  will not be able to receive an advance  amount  that is greater
than 175% of the  average  daily  volume of its  common  stock  over the 40 trading
days prior to the advance request multiplied by the purchase price.

The  purchase  price  for each  advance  will be equal to 91% of the  three  lowest
daily volume  weighted  average  prices during the 22 trading days before a request
is made.

The Company will receive the amount  requested as an advance  within 10 days of its
request,  subject to  satisfying  standard  closing  conditions.  The  issuance  of
shares  of  common  stock to the  providers  in  connection  with the  equity  line
financing  will be  exempt  from  registration  under  the  Securities  Act of 1933
pursuant  to  Section  4(2)  thereof.  The  Company  has  agreed  to  register  for
immediate  re-sale the shares being  issued to the  providers of the Equity Line of
Credit  before any  drawdowns  may occur.  The  Company  has  registered  9,500,000
shares.  The related  Registration  Statement was declared  effective by the SEC on
August 6, 2001.  The  Company  has also  agreed  that its  executive  officers  and
directors  will not sell any shares of its  common  stock  during  the ten  trading
days following any advance request by the Company.

The Company will pay an aggregate  of 7% of each amount  advanced  under the equity
line financing to two parties  affiliated  with the providers of the Equity Line of
Credit for their services  relating thereto.  In addition,  upon the effective date
of this  Registration  Statement  registering the securities to be issued under the
Equity Line of Credit,  the Company  issued to those same two parties an  aggregate
of 198,020  shares of common  stock,  and on  December  9, 2001 (180 days after the
date  of the  Equity  Line of  Credit  Agreement)  the  Company  issued  to them an
additional  344,827  shares of our common stock  shares.  In addition,  the Company
has paid legal fees in an aggregate amount of  $15,000.

During the period August to December 2001,  the company  received  $1,510,000,  net
of  commissions  and escrow fees from nine equity line  advances,  resulting in the
issuance  of  2,748,522  shares of  common  stock.  The  542,847  shares  issued to
finders in  connection  with the  equity  line,  described  above,  were  valued at
$407,000, additionally the incremental differences of shares issued at below market
prices  on  the  line  totaled  $391,000,  both  of which have been  presented as a
reduction to net proceeds from the advances received.

<U>Accumulated Deficit</U>

Of the  $34,059,000  cumulative  deficit at December  31, 2001 and  $23,423,000  at
December 31, 2000,  the  approximate  amount  relating to the Company's  technology
business  from  inception  is  $21,112,000  and   $10,631,000,   respectively.   In
addition,  a premium of $2,332,000  was paid upon the  acquisition  of Cymedix Lynx
in 1998,  producing a total  investment  of  $23,544,000  at December  31, 2001 and
$12,963,000 at December 31,  2000 in the technology to date.

<U>Stock Options</U>

In May 1988,  the Company  adopted an  incentive  stock  option  plan (ISO),  which
provides  for the  grant  of  options  representing  up to  100,000  shares  of the
Company's  common  stock to officers  and  employees  of the Company upon terms and
conditions  determined  by the Board of Directors.  Options  granted under the plan
are  generally  exercisable  immediately  and expire up to ten years after the date
of grant.  Options  are  granted at a price  equal to the market  value at the date
of  grants,  or in the  case of a  stockholder  who  owns  greater  than 10% of the
outstanding  stock of the  Company,  the  options  are  granted at 110% of the fair
market value.

In 1994, the Board of Directors  established,  the Omnibus Stock Plan of 1994 (1994
Plan) and reserved  500,000  shares of the  Company's  common stock for grant under
terms,  which could extend through  January 2004.  All options and warrants  issued
under  this  plan  are  non-qualified.  Grants  under  the  1994  Plan  may  be  to
employees,  non-employee  directors,  and selected  consultants to the Company, and
may take the form of  non-qualified  options,  not  lower  than 50% of fair  market
value.  To date,  the Company has not issued any  options  below fair market  value
at the date of grant.

In 1996, the Board of Directors  established  the 1996 Stock Option Plan (the "1996
Plan")  with  terms  similar  to the  1994  Plan.  The  Board of  Directors  of the
Company  reserved  4,000,000  shares of common  stock for  issuance  under the 1996
Plan.

In August  1999,  the Board of  Directors  established  the 1999 Stock  Option Plan
(the  "1999  Plan"),  which  provides  for the  grant of  incentive  stock  options
("ISOs") to officers and other employees of the Company and  non-qualified  options
to  directors,   officers,  employees  and  consultants  of  the  Company.  Options
granted under the plan are generally  exercisable  immediately and expire up to ten
years  after  the  date of  grant.  Options  are  granted  at a price  equal to the
market  value  at  the  date  of  grant.   The  Board  of  Directors  has  reserved
10,000,000 shares of common stock for granting of options under the 1999 Plan.

The following table presents the activity for options outstanding:

                                                                           Weighted
                                                Incentive  Non-qualified    Average
                                                  Stock        Stock       Exercise
                                                 Options      Options       Price
                                              ------------ ------------ ------------

Outstanding - December 31, 1998                  3,054,065    1,157,050 $       0.35
      Granted                                    5,050,000      662,500         0.31
      Forfeited/canceled                          (586,188)    (930,366)        0.41
      Exercised                                         -      (256,184)        2.78
                                              ------------ ------------ ------------

Outstanding - December 31, 1999                  7,517,877      633,000         0.32
      Granted                                    2,255,000      110,000         3.82
      Forfeited/canceled                           (10,000)           -         0.25
      Exercised                                 (3,900,235)    (139,499)        0.28
                                              ------------ ------------ ------------

Outstanding - December 31, 2000                  5,862,642      603,501         1.62
      Granted                                    2,289,000           -          0.71
      Forfeited/canceled                          (865,000)     (65,834)        3.03
      Exercised                                 (1,267,142)    (173,500)        0.25
                                              ------------ ------------ ------------

Outstanding - December 31, 2001                  6,019,500      364,167 $       1.40
                                              ============ ============ ============

The  following   table  presents  the   composition  of  options   outstanding  and
exercisable:

                           Options Outstanding                 Options Exercisable
                         -----------------------             -----------------------
Range of Exercise Prices    Number      Price*       Life*      Number      Price*
- ------------------------ ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -----------
      $.19 - .55           2,723,667 $      0.41        7.46   2,601,833 $      0.40
      $.60 - 1.88          2,365,000        0.76        0.54   1,943,750        0.73
      $2.25 - 4.97         1,295,000        4.67        6.45     800,000        4.56
                         ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -----------

Total - December 31,
2001                       6,383,667 $      1.40        4.69   5,345,583 $      1.14
                         =========== =========== =========== =========== ===========

*Price and Life reflect the weighted  average  exercise price and weighted  average
remaining contractual life, respectively.

The  Company  has  issued  110,000  stock  options to  consultants  which have been
valued at $79,000  and  recorded as  consulting  expense,  using the  Black-Scholes
options  pricing  model.  The  assumptions  used include  lives ranging from 2 to 5
years,  exercise  prices  ranging  from  $0.67 to  $0.92,  volatility  of 132%,  no
dividend payments and a risk free rate of 5.5%.

The Company has adopted the  disclosure-only  provisions  of Statement of Financial
Accounting   Standards  No.  123,   "Accounting  for   Stock-Based   Compensation."
Accordingly,  no  compensation  cost  has  been  recognized  for the  stock  option
plans.  Had  compensation  cost for the Company's  option been determined  based on
the fair value at the grant  date for  awards  consistent  with the  provisions  of
SFAS No.  123,  the  Corporation's  net loss and basic loss per common  share would
have been changed to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

                                                      For the Years Ended
                                                          December 31,
                                          -----------------------------------------
                                               2001           2000          1999
                                          -------------- ------------- ------------

Net loss - as reported                    $(10,636,000)  $ (5,415,000) $ (4,847,000)
Net loss - pro forma                       (12,035,000)   (14,256,000)   (6,136,000)
Basic loss per common share - as reported        (0.21)         (0.13)        (0.30)
Basic loss per common share - pro forma          (0.24)         (0.34)        (0.36)

The fair value of each  option  grant is  estimated  on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes    option-pricing   model   with   the   following   weighted-average
assumptions used:

                                                      For the Years Ended
                                                          December 31,
                                          ----------------------------------------
                                               2001           2000         1999
                                          -------------- ------------- -----------

Approximate risk free rate                    5.50%          5.50%         5.50%
Average expected life                        5 years       10 years      10 years
Dividend yield                                  0%            0%            0%
Volatility                                     132%          273%          225%

Estimated fair value of total options
granted                                     $1,399,000    $8,841,000    $1,289,000


<U>Warrants</U>

The  Company  has  an  obligation  to  issue  up to  7,000,000  warrants  under  an
agreement  with  a  pharmacy  management  company  for  the  Company's  proprietary
software to be  interfaced  with core medical  service  providers,  in which one of
the  Company's  audit  committee  members  is  a  related  party  to  the  pharmacy
management  company.   The  agreement  provides  for  3,000,000  warrants  with  an
exercise  price of $.30,  3,000,000  warrants with an exercise  price of $.50,  and
1,000,000  warrants  with an  exercise  price of $1.75 all  expiring  September  8,
2004.  The  warrants  to  be  issued  by  the  Company  are  granted  in  1,000,000
increments  based  on  certain   performance   criteria.   At  December  31,  1999,
1,000,000   of  the  warrants  had  been  granted  but  were  not  issued  yet.  In
connection  with the  obligation  to  issue  the  1,000,000  warrants  earned,  the
Company  recorded  expense of  $1,364,000  valued  using the  Black-Scholes  option
pricing  model,  with  assumptions  of 132%  volatility,  no  dividend  yield and a
risk-free  rate of 5.5%.  No  warrants  were  granted  during  2000.  During  2001,
850,000  of the  warrants  had been  granted  but were not issued by  December  31,
2001.  In connection  with the  obligation  to issue the 850,000  warrants  earned,
the Company  recorded  expense of $590,000  during the third quarter of 2001 valued
using  the   Black-Scholes   option  pricing  model,   with   assumptions  of  132%
volatility, no dividend yield and a risk-free rate of 5.5%.

At December  31,  2001,  the Company will have the  obligation  to grant  5,150,000
warrants under the agreement in the future if the  performance  criteria  specified
are met.

The Company also issued and modified  warrant  terms in the  settlement  of certain
litigation  (Note  7).  These  warrants  and  modifications  have  been  valued  at
$234,000 using the  Black-Scholes  option pricing model.  (See  assumptions used in
Note 7).

The following table presents the activity for warrants outstanding:

                                                                           Weighted
                                                                            Average
                                                            Number of      Exercise
                                                            Warrants         Price
                                                         ---------------------------

Outstanding - December 31, 1998                              3,463,954 $        1.81
      Issued                                                12,721,000          0.51
      Forfeited/canceled                                     (993,828)          4.84
      Exercised                                              (400,000)          0.31
                                                         ---------------------------

Outstanding - December 31, 1999                             14,791,126          0.53
      Issued                                                    35,000          3.96
      Forfeited/canceled                                      (32,506)          0.71
      Exercised                                            (9,352,620)          0.53
                                                         ---------------------------

Outstanding - December 31, 2000                              5,441,000          0.53
      Issued                                                 2,066,587          1.12
      Forfeited/canceled                                      (36,000)          0.80
      Exercised                                               (22,000)          0.19
                                                         ---------------------------

Outstanding - December 31, 2001                              7,449,587 $        0.69
                                                         ===========================

All of the  outstanding  warrants  are  exercisable  and  have a  weighted  average
remaining contractual life of 2.31 years.


<B><U>Note 9 - Income Taxes</U></B>

As of December 31, 2000,  the Company has net  operating  loss (NOL)  carryforwards
of  approximately  $21,800,000,  which expire in the years 2000 through  2021.  The
utilization of the NOL  carryforward  is limited to $469,000 on an annual basis for
net operating  loss  carryforwards  generated  prior to September  1996,  due to an
effective  change  in  control,  which  occurred  as a result  of the 1996  private
placement.  As a result of the  significant  sale of  securities  during 1999,  the
Company's net operating loss  carryforwards  will be further  limited in the future
to an annual  amount of  $231,000  due to those  changes in  control.  The  Company
also  has  a  deferred  tax  liability  of   approximately   $221,000   related  to
capitalized   software   development   costs.  The  Company  has  concluded  it  is
currently  more  likely  than not that it will not  realize  its net  deferred  tax
asset and  accordingly  has  established  a valuation  allowance  of  approximately
$7,400,000  and  $5,000,000,  respectively.  The change in the valuation  allowance
for 2001 and 2000 was approximately $2,413,000 and $1,668,000, respectively.



<B><U>Note 10 - Employee Benefit Plan</U></B>

Effective  March 25, 1997, the Company  adopted a defined  contribution  retirement
savings plan,  which covers all  employees age 21 or older with one thousand  hours
of annual  service.  Matching  contributions  are made by the  Company at $0.25 for
each $1 that the employee contributes up to 8% of compensation during 1998.

The  Company  has  certain   violations   under  the  plan,  which  are  considered
reportable  transactions.  The Company  was  delinquent  in filing a complete  Form
5500,  and was  notified by the  Department  of Labor to complete  its filing.  The
Company  has  complied in filing the Form 5500 within the  specified  time  period,
however, the Company could be subject to certain penalties as a result.

The  Company's  matching  contributions  vest to the  participant  according to the
following vesting schedule:


                           Years of Service
                           ----------------
                                  1                                    10%
                                  2                                    20%
                                  3                                    30%
                                  4                                    40%
                                  5                                    60%
                                  6                                    80%
                                  7                                    100%


<B><U>Note 11 - Related Party Transactions</U></B>

Prior to being  elected  to the  board  of  directors  of the  Company  in 1999,  a
company  affiliated  with one of the Company's  directors,  entered into agreements
with us to provide  executive  search  services and sales and marketing  service to
us. In  connection  with those  agreements,  the Company  issued a 3-year option to
acquire up to 25,000 shares of the Company's  common stock at an exercise  price of
$.55 per share.  An expense of  approximately  $13,000  related to the  issuance of
the option  was  recorded.  The  Company  paid the  related  company  approximately
$51,000  and  $152,000  during  2001  and  2000,  respectively.  The  Company  also
entered into an agreement  with the  affiliated  company for rental  space,  use of
clerical  employees  and to pay a portion  of utility  and  telephone  costs.  Rent
expense for 2001 and 2000 was approximately $111,000 and $93,000, respectively.

During  2000,  the  Company  paid two  companies  affiliated  with  another  of the
Company's  directors  $118,000 for services and related expenses and  approximately
$66,000 for software  development  and web-site  hosting and  development  services
and purchase of computer  equipment.  The Company also  acquired a business  from a
director of the Company for $474,000 in 2000 (Note 4).

The Company  also has an  obligation  to issue  warrants  to a pharmacy  management
company in which a member of the  Company's  audit  committee  is a related  party,
if certain performance criterion are met in the future (Note 7).

The Company has a  consulting  agreement  with one of the  Company's  directors  to
assist with  marketing  of the  Company's  products.  The Company paid the director
$0 and $52,000 for such consulting services in 2001 and 2000, respectively.

During July 2001,  the Company  received  $136,000 as a short- term  advance from a
related  party,  $50,000 of which was repaid  during  August  2001.  An  additional
$30,000  and  $50,000 was  advanced  to the  company by the  related  party  during
September  and  December  2001,  leaving  an  outstanding  balance of  $166,000  at
December 31, 2001.  The entire amount was repaid during February 2002.



<B><U>Note 12 - Subsequent Events</U></B>

The Company  entered  into a secured  convertible  loan  agreement  with a Company,
dated February 19, 2002,  pursuant to which we borrowed  $1,000,000  from WellPoint
Health  Networks  Inc.  The loan  becomes  payable on  February  19,  2003,  if not
converted  into our common  stock.  The loan earns  annual  interest  at a floating
rate of 300 basis  points over prime,  as it is adjusted  from time to time,  which
is also  payable at maturity  and may be converted  into common  stock.  Conversion
into common  stock is at the option of either  WellPoint  or Medix at a  contingent
conversion  price.  The  conversion  price will be either (i) at the price at which
additional  shares are sold to other private  placement  investors if Medix obtains
written  commitments  for at least an additional  $4,000,000 of equity by the close
of business on September 30, 2002,  from persons not  affiliates of WellPoint,  and
if such  sales are  closed  by the  maturity  date of the loan,  or (ii) at a price
equal to 80% of the  then-current  Fair Market Value (as defined below) if Medix is
unable to obtain a written  commitment for the additional  equity investment by the
close of business on September  30, 2002 or close the sales by the  maturity  date.
For this purpose,  "Fair Market Value" shall be the average  closing price of Medix
common  stock for the  twenty  trading  days  ending on the day prior to the day of
the   conversion.   The  Company  will  be  required  to  record   financing  costs
during the first quarter of 2002 associated  with this loan  agreement  as a result
of  the  in-the-money  conversion  feature  totalling  approximately  $70,000.  The
loan   is  secured  by   the   grant  of  a  security  interest   in   all  Medix's
intellectual  property, including its patent,  copyrights  and  trademarks.   While
Medix can cure a default in the repayment of the loan at the fixed   maturity  date
by  the  forced  conversion  of  the  loan  into its common stock, a cross default,
breach of  representation  or warranty,  and bankruptcy or similar event of default
will trigger the  foreclosure provision of the security agreement.



<B><U>Note 13 - Summarized Quarterly Results (Unaudited)</U></B>

The following table presents  unaudited  operating  results for each quarter within
the two most recent years.  The Company  believes  that all  necessary  adjustments
consisting  only  of  normal  recurring  adjustments,  have  been  included  in the
amounts  stated below to present fairly the following  quarterly  results when read
in  conjunction  with the  financial  statements.  Results  of  operations  for any
particular  quarter are not  necessarily  indicative of results of operations for a
full fiscal year.


                                           First        Second          Third           Fourth
                                        Quarter (4)     Quarter      Quarter (2)    Quarter (3),(5)
                                        -----------   -----------   -----------     ---------------
December 31, 2000
   Revenues                             $    64,000   $   126,000   $   104,000      $    32,000
   Operating expenses                     1,054,000     2,011,000     1,455,000        2,090,000
   Gross profit (loss)                       61,000       106,000        31,000          (52,000)
   Loss from continuing operations         (981,000)   (1,849,000)   (1,380,000)      (2,134,000)
   Gain   (loss)   from    discontinued
    operations                              650,000            -             -           279,000
   Net income (loss)                       (331,000)   (1,849,000)   (1,380,000)      (1,855,000)
   Basic earnings (loss) per share (1)        (0.01)        (0.04)        (0.03)           (0.02)
   Diluted earnings (loss) per share (1)      (0.01)        (0.04)        (0.03)           (0.02)

December 31, 2001
   Revenues                             $    30,000   $        -    $        -       $    (1,000)
   Operating expenses                     2,190,000     1,427,000     3,053,000        1,261,000
   Gross profit (loss)                       25,000       (28,000)       (5,000)        (176,000)
   Loss from continuing operations       (2,259,000)   (1,635,000)   (3,183,000)      (2,912,000)
   Net income (loss)                     (2,259,000)   (1,635,000)   (3,183,000)      (2,912,000)
   Basic earnings (loss) per share (1)        (0.05)        (0.03)        (0.06)           (0.07)
   Diluted earnings (loss) per share (1)      (0.05)        (0.03)        (0.06)           (0.07)

(1)  Earnings per share are computed independently for each quarter and the full
     year based upon respective average shares outstanding.  Therefore,  the sum
     of the  quarterly  net earnings per share  amounts may not equal the annual
     amounts reported.

(2)  Included in third  quarter 2001 operating expense is $1,111,000 of expenses
     related to the impairment of intangible assets. (Note 4)

(3)  Included in fourth  quarter 2001 operating loss is  $1,022,000 in financing
     costs. (Notes 6 and 8)

(4)  During  the first quarter of 2000, the Company closed on the sale of assets
     of  its  remaining  staffing  business  and  discontinued these operations.
     (Note 3)

(5)  During  the  fourth  quarter  of  2000, the  Company wrote off unrealizable
     assets  related to the  discontinued  operations,  and  adjusted  remaining
     liabilities settled for less than recorded amounts. (Note 3)


</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>exhibit-10_5.htm
<DESCRIPTION>10.5
<TEXT>
<HTML><HEAD><TITLE>exhibit-10_5</TITLE></HEAD>
<BODY>
<PRE>

                                                                  <B>Exhibit 10.5

                        EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT</B>


            EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT,  dated as of February 1, 2002 (the
"Agreement")  by and between  Medix  Resources,  Inc., a Colorado  corporation
with its principal  offices located at Suite 1830, 420 Lexington  Avenue,  New
York, New York, ("the Company") and John R. Prufeta (the "Executive").

            WHEREAS,  the Executive is currently  serving as the President and
Chief  Executive  Officer and the Company  desires to induce the  Executive to
continue  to  serve  in such  capacity  effective  February  1,  2002  and the
Executive is willing to continue to serve in such  capacity,  on the terms and
conditions herein set forth;

            NOW THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the mutual  covenants herein
contained,  the parties  hereto,  each  intending to be legally  bound hereby,
agree as follows:

            1.  Employment.  The  Company  agrees to  continue  to employ  the
Executive,  and the Executive agrees to serve the Company as its President and
Chief  Executive  Officer upon the terms and conditions set forth herein.  The
Executive  hereby  represents  and  warrants  that he has  legal  capacity  to
execute and perform this Agreement,  that it is a valid and binding  Agreement
enforceable  against him  according to its terms,  and that its  execution and
performance  by him do not  violate  the terms of any  existing  agreement  or
understanding to which the Executive is a party.

            2.   Position   and   Responsibilities.   During  the  Term,   the
Executive  agrees to serve as  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer.  The
Executive shall be responsible for the Company's overall executive  leadership
and management and shall have full authority and  responsibility  with respect
thereto,  including  the  matters  set forth in the Job  Description  attached
hereto as Exhibit A,  subject to the  supervision,  restrictions,  limitations
and guidelines  set forth by the Board of Directors in resolutions  adopted in
the  minutes  of the Board of  Directors  meetings,  copies of which  shall be
provided to the Executive.

            3.  Term of  Employment.  The term of the  Executive's  employment
under this  Agreement  shall commence on February 1, 2002  ("Effective  Date")
and, subject to earlier  termination  provisions  pursuant to Section 7, shall
continue  for one (1) year  from the  Effective  Date.  This  Agreement  shall
automatically  renew for one or more  additional  one (1) year periods  unless
the Company or the Executive  delivers to the other party, a written notice of
intention  not to renew  in a form  and  manner  prescribed  herein,  at least
ninety  (90)  days  prior  to  the  expiration  of  this   Agreement.   It  is
acknowledged  and agreed by the parties that failure to renew the  Executive's
contract  shall not be deemed to be  "Termination  Without  Cause"  hereunder.
The  "Term"  as used  herein  shall  mean the term of this  Agreement  and any
renewal term thereof.

            4. Duties.   During the Term,  except for illness,  incapacity  or
reasonable  vacation  periods of no more than 4 weeks in any calendar year (or
such other  periods as shall be  consistent  with the  Company's  policies for
other key  executives),  the Executive shall devote his full  attention,  best
efforts and all of his  business  time and skill  exclusively  to the business
and affairs of the Company,  and its affiliated  Company and shall perform and
discharge  well and  faithfully  the duties  which may be assigned to him from
time to time, and which are consistent  with his position and status,  as such
business and affairs now exist and as they may be  hereinafter  changed.  With
approval of the Board of Directors of the Company,  however, the Executive may
serve,  on other  boards  of  directors  of,  or hold  any  other  offices  or
positions in companies or organizations which, in such Board's judgment,  will
not  present  any  conflict  of  interest  with  the  Company  or  any  of its
subsidiaries or affiliates or divisions,  or materially affect the performance
of Executive's  duties pursuant to this Agreement;  and further  provided that
the outside  business  is not a  "Business  Opportunity"  of the  Company,  as
defined  herein.  A Business  Opportunity  of the Company  shall be a product,
service, investment, venture or other opportunity, which is either:

(a)   Directly related to or within the scope of the existing  business of the
                        Company; or

(b)   Within the logical  scope of the business of the Company,  as such scope
                        may be expanded or altered  from  time-to-time  by the
                        Board of  Directors.

The terms "affiliate" or "affiliated  Company" as used herein mean any company
directly or  indirectly  controlling,  controlled  by or under common  control
with the other  company.  A presumption  of control shall exist for any person
owning or controlling  10% or more of the outstanding  voting  securities of a
company, and any officer, director or general partner of a company.

            5.   Compensation.

            (a)  Base  Salary.  The  Company  shall  pay to the  Executive  as
compensation  for his  services,  the base salary of $275,000 per annum ("Base
Salary") as of the  Effective  Date of the  Agreement.  The Base Salary may be
increased,  but not decreased,  from  time-to-time  by the Board of Directors.
Base  Salary  shall be payable  bi-weekly  in  accordance  with the  Company's
normal payroll procedures.

            (b)  Bonus  Plan.  In  addition  to  the  Base  Salary,  Executive
shall be eligible to earn a performance-based  bonus in a bonus plan set forth
and attached  hereto as Exhibit B, the terms and provisions of which have been
authorized  by the Board of  Directors.  Executive  shall not be  entitled  to
receive the Bonus for any  calendar  year if he resigns from the Company or is
terminated by the Company for cause at any time during such calendar year.

            (c) Option  Award.  Upon the  execution  of this  Agreement by the
Company and  Executive,  Executive will receive a grant of options to purchase
up to 200,000  shares of the common stock of the Company  under the  Company's
1999 Stock Option Plan, at an exercise  price that is the closing price of the
Company's  stock on the date of December  18,  2001,  subject to the terms and
conditions  of  the  Stock  Option  Plan.  Such  options  are  intended  to be
classified as incentive  stock  options for tax  purposes,  and shall vest and
expire and be subject to such other  terms as  provided  on Exhibit C attached
hereto.  The terms of the stock  option  grant are set forth in a Stock Option
Agreement  in the  form  used  pursuant  to such  Plan  and  attached  to this
Agreement.

            (d)  Other  Compensation.  In  addition,  during  the term of this
agreement,  Executive  shall  be  eligible  to  receive  residual  commissions
provided for in his prior employment agreement, dated December 1, 1999.

            (e)  Medical  Coverage  and  Other  Employee  Benefits.  Except as
modified by this  Agreement,  the Executive will be eligible to participate in
such of the Company's  employee benefits  programs as are generally  available
to  senior  executives  of the  Company,  now  or  hereafter  established  and
maintained by the Company,  to the extent  permissible under the general terms
and  provisions  of  such  plans  or  programs,  and in  accordance  with  the
provisions thereof,  including health insurance with limited Company payments,
long-term  disability  plans,  limited  sick time accrual  plans,  401(k) Plan
participation when eligible,  and term life insurance at Executive's  expense,
on  the  same  basis  as  other  senior  executives  of  the  Company.   Where
applicable, the Executive shall be designated as a "key" employee.

            (f) Vacation  Time.  The  Executive  shall be entitled to four (4)
weeks paid vacation per calendar  year.  Such vacation may not be taken in any
greater than two (2)  consecutive  week  increments.  Vacation not used by the
Executive  during the  calendar  year  shall be  forfeited.  Compensation  for
unused  vacation  time  shall  be  paid  to  the  Executive  on  the  Date  of
Termination, as defined herein.

            6. Business  Expense  Reimbursement.  The Company shall  reimburse
the  Executive  for all  reasonable  and  necessary  expenses  incurred by the
Executive  in  connection  with  the  performance  of his  duties  under  this
Agreement,  including entertainment,  travel and lodging costs, subject to the
Executive's  presentation  of  an  appropriate  itemized  accounting  of  such
expenses on a monthly  basis,  in such form as is  required  by the  Company's
accounting policies.

            7.   Effect of Termination of Employment.

            (a)  Without  Cause   Termination   by  the  Company.   After  the
completion  of the  initial  year of  employment  hereunder,  the  Company may
terminate the  employment of the Executive  without cause upon sixty (60) days
written notice.  In the event that the Executive's  employment  terminates due
to a Without Cause Termination,  earned but unpaid Base Salary and Bonus as of
the  Date  of   Termination   (as  defined  in  Section   15(b)  the  "Accrued
Obligations"  shall  be  payable  in full.  Subject  to:  (1) the  Executive's
continuing  compliance with his obligations  under the provisions of Section 9
below;  and (2) the  Executive's  execution  and  delivery to the Company of a
Separation  Agreement  which shall include an irrevocable  general  release of
all  claims,  in  a  form  acceptable  to  the  Company,   the  Company  shall
additionally:

(i)   continue to pay the  Executive's  Base Salary,  as in effect at the Date
                     of Termination,  for a period of six (6) months following
                     the Date of Termination, and

(ii)  pay to the Executive a pro-rata  share of any eligible  bonus amounts in
                     the event of a  termination  during the calendar  year in
                     which the bonus is earned.

With respect to the payments  provided for in this Section 7(a), the Executive
shall be  entitled,  to the extent  permitted  by law,  as  determined  by the
Company in good faith,  to participate in any  compensation  deferral plans or
arrangements then provided by the Company to senior executives.

            (b)   Disability.  In the  event  of the  Executive's  Disability,
the  Company  may,  by giving a Notice of  Disability  as  provided in Section
15(b),  remove the Executive  from active  employment  and in that event shall
provide the  Executive  for six (6) months with the same payments and benefits
as those  provided  in Section  7(a),  except Base  Salary  payments  shall be
offset by any amounts  otherwise  payable to the Executive under the Company's
disability program generally available to other employees.

            (c)   Death.  In the event of the  Executive's  death  during  the
Term of this  Agreement,  this Agreement  shall  terminate  immediately.  Upon
Executive's  death,  the Company  shall pay in a lump sum,  within  forty-five
(45) days of the  Executive's  death,  to such person as the  Executive  shall
have  designated to the Company as his  beneficiary,  or, if no such person is
designated,  to the  Executive's  estate,  an  amount  equal  to  the  Accrued
Obligations as of the date of death,  the value on the Company's  books of any
accrued but unused  vacation  time and  accrued and unused sick time,  and all
unpaid  expense  reimbursements  at the time of  Executive's  death.  No other
payments  shall  be  made,  or  benefits  provided,  by  the  Company  to  the
Executive's beneficiary or the Executive's estate.

            (d)   Termination  by  the  Executive.  The  Executive,   with  or
without cause,  may terminate  this  Agreement upon sixty,  (60) days' written
notice to the Company in  accordance  with  Section 15 herein.  The  Executive
shall be required to render the services  required under this Agreement during
such 60-day period,  unless otherwise  directed by the Board of Directors.  In
the event  the  Executive  terminates  employment  under  this  Section  7(c),
Executive shall only be entitled to Accrued  Obligations as of the Termination
Date,  and the Company  shall  thereupon  have no further  obligations  to the
Executive  under this  Agreement,  except as may be required by  operation  of
law.

            (e)  Termination  for Cause.  At  anytime  during the Term of this
Agreement,  the Executive may be terminated for cause, as defined  herein.  In
such event,  the Company,  without  liability,  may terminate the  Executive's
employment  hereunder  for cause upon ten (10) days' advance  written  notice,
including  the  reasons  therefore.  If the  Executive  desires to contest the
determination  to terminate  his  employment  for cause,  he may  request,  in
writing and within five (5) business days of the written  notice to him of his
termination,  that a meeting of the full Board of  Directors be called to hear
his views on the matter.  Such  meeting  shall take place  within  thirty (30)
days of such written  notice.  During such  period,  unless  otherwise  agreed
between the parties,  Executive  shall be on paid leave.  The Board shall make
its decision at the meeting and if it is in the  Executive's  favor,  he shall
immediately  resume  his  duties.  If it is not in his favor,  his  employment
shall  immediately   terminate  and  thereafter,   the  Company's   obligation
hereunder shall cease and terminate.  In the event the Executive's  employment
hereunder  terminates  due to a Termination  for Cause,  the Company shall pay
the  Executive  his Accrued  Obligations  only through the  Effective  Date of
Termination  at the rate in effect at the time the  notice of  termination  is
given,  plus  accrued but unpaid  vacation,  and vested  stock  options may be
exercised  according  to the terms and  limitations  of the Plan.  The Company
thereupon  shall have no further  obligations to the Executive,  except as may
be required by operation of law.

            (f)  Definitions.  For purposes of this  Agreement,  the following
terms have the following meanings:

(i)   "Termination  for Cause"  means,  to the  maximum  extent  permitted  by
applicable  law, a termination  of the  Executive's  employment by the Company
because  the  Executive  has (A) been  convicted  of, or has entered a plea of
nolo contendere with respect to a felony, or any misdemeanor  evidencing moral
turpitude,   deceit,  dishonesty  or  fraud;  (B)  engaged  in  conduct  which
constitutes  a willful and continued  failure to perform his duties  hereunder
after notice to the Executive and reasonable  opportunity to correct the same;
(C)  willfully  engaged  in any  misconduct  which  has the  effect  of  being
injurious to the Company or any of its affiliates;  or (D) materially fails to
perform or meet  objective  standards set by the Board of Directors and agreed
upon by the Executive in advance; or (E) violated the representations  made in
Section  1  above,  or  any of  the  provisions  of  Sections  9 or 10  below.
Notwithstanding  anything  herein to the  contrary,  the  Company  may without
liability,  terminate the Executive's  employment hereunder for cause upon ten
(10) days written notice, and thereafter,  the Company's obligations hereunder
shall cease and terminate.

(ii)  "Without  Cause  Termination"  means a  termination  of the  Executive's
employment  by the Company  other than due to  Disability or expiration of the
Term and other than a Termination for Cause.

(iii) "Disability"  for purposes of this Agreement  means the Executive  shall
be disabled so as to be unable to perform for 90 consecutive  working days, or
120  working  days in the  aggregate  in any 365-day  period,  with or without
reasonable  accommodation,  the  essential  functions  of  his  then  existing
position or positions  under this  Agreement,  as  determined by the person or
entity  responsible for making  determinations  under the Company's  long-term
disability  plan or, if any such  person or entity is not able for any  reason
to  make  this   determination,   by  another  independent  person  or  entity
experienced  in this field  selected  by the  Company  and  acceptable  to the
Executive or his representative.

      Nothing  contained  in this Section 7 shall be deemed to limit any other
right the Company may have to terminate the  Executive's  employment  upon any
ground permitted by applicable law.

            8.  Triggering  Event Lump Sum  Compensation.  In the event of the
occurrence  of a  "Triggering  Event,"  which  shall be defined to include (i)
change in ownership of 50% or more of the  outstanding  shares of the Company,
or (ii)  the  merger,  consolidation,  reorganization  or  liquidation  of the
Company  that results in a change in ownership of 50% or more of the direct or
indirect   ownership  of  the  Company   before  the  merger,   consolidation,
reorganization  or  liquidation,  the  Executive  shall  receive  a  lump  sum
compensation  equal to his annual salary and incentive or bonus  payments,  if
any,  as  would  have  been  paid  to  the  Executive   during  the  Company's
then-current  fiscal year (as if the  Executive had been employed for the full
fiscal  year),  within  thirty  (30)  days  of the  Triggering  Event.  All of
Executive's  granted but  unvested  options  shall  immediately  vest upon the
occurrence of a Triggering  Event,  and all of the shares  underlying  all the
options held by him shall be registered on a Form S-8 (or any successor  form)
in a timely manner (no more than 45 days after such Triggering  Event),  to be
sold  to  his  by  the  Company  or  its   successor   as   unrestricted   and
freely-tradeable  shares. If the Company has been acquired by another publicly
traded  company,  the Company  shall cause the  acquiring  company to agree to
exchange  its  options  to  acquire  such  company's  shares  for the  Company
options,  and to cause such shares to be registered  with the  Securities  and
Exchange  Commission  for  sale  in  the  public  securities  markets  by  the
Executive.  Alternatively,  if the  Company  has been  acquired  by a  private
company,  the  Company  shall  cause  such  company to offer to  purchase  the
Executive's  options  upon the  same  terms as are  offered  to the  Company's
shareholders in connection  with such company's  acquisition of control of the
Company.  If the total  amount of the change of control  compensation  were to
exceed three times the  Executive's  base salary (the average  annual  taxable
compensation  of the Executive for the five years  preceding the year in which
the change of control  occurs),  the  Company and the  Executive  may agree to
reduce the lump sum  compensation  to be  received  by  Executive  in order to
avoid the  imposition  of the golden  parachute  tax  provided  for in the Tax
Reform Act of 1984, as amended by the Tax Reform Act of 1986.

            9.   Obligations of Executive During and After Employment.

            (a)  Confidential  Information.  Executive  acknowledges  that, by
reason of his duties,  he will produce,  be given,  or may have access to, and
become informed of, confidential or proprietary  information which the Company
possesses  or to which the Company has rights,  which  relates to the Company,
which is not  generally  known to the public or in the  trade,  and which is a
competitive  asset of the Company,  or information  which constitutes a "trade
secret"  of  the  Company,  ("Confidential  Information"),  including  without
limitation,  (i) the Company's planning data, marketing  strategies,  business
plans,  expansion plans,  products,  business opportunity records,  notebooks,
data, formulas, specifications,  trade secrets, customer lists, account lists,
know-how,   research  and  development  programs,  sales  methods,  inventions
processes,  and other  confidential  technical or business  information;  (ii)
non-public  terms of any new products  and  strategies  of the Company;  (iii)
non-public  information relating to the Company's personnel matters;  (iv) the
Company's  financial results and information  about their business  condition;
(v)  non-public  terms  of any  material  contract  of the  Company;  (vi) the
Company's  proprietary  software and related  documents;  (vii) the  Company's
client and prospect  lists and contact  persons at such clients and prospects;
and (viii) non-public material information  concerning the Company's customers
or  their   operations,   condition   (financial   or   otherwise)  or  plans.
"Confidential  Information"  shall not include any information:  (A) generally
known to the  public  except  as a result  of  disclosure  by  Executive;  (B)
disclosed by the Company without an obligation of  confidentiality on the part
of the recipient;  or (C) required to be disclosed by law, rule, regulation or
order without an obligation of  confidentiality  on the part of the recipient,
provided that prior to making any disclosure under this clause (C),  Executive
shall  provide the Company  with notice and the  opportunity  to contest  such
disclosure.

Executive   acknowledges  that  his  employment   creates  a  relationship  of
confidence  and  trust  between  himself  and  the  Company  with  respect  to
Confidential Information, and that Confidential Information,  whether compiled
or created by him or by the Company,  is and shall remain the sole property of
the Company.  Executive  will  faithfully  keep  Confidential  Information  in
strict  confidence and shall not, either directly or indirectly,  at any time,
while an employee of the Company or  thereafter,  make known,  divulge,  copy,
reveal,  furnish, make available, or use (except for use in the regular course
of his  duties for the  Company)  any  Confidential  Information  without  the
written  consent of the Board of Directors of the Company.  Executive  further
acknowledges that all records,  files,  business plans,  documents,  equipment
and the like,  or copies  thereof,  including  copies  on  Company  computers,
relating to  Company's  business,  or the business of an  affiliated  Company,
which  Executive  shall  prepare,  or use, or come into  contact  with,  shall
remain the sole  property of the Company,  or of an  affiliated  Company,  and
shall not be removed from the Company's or the affiliated  Company's  premises
without the written  consent of the Board of Directors,  and shall be promptly
returned to the Company upon  termination  of employment  with the Company and
its affiliated Company.  All equipment,  software and other materials provided
to the  Executive by the Company will remain the property of the Company,  and
must be made  available  to the Company at all times for  servicing,  security
checks,  or any other  purpose and the  Executive  hereby  agrees to turn such
items over to the Company  immediately  upon  request.  Executive  understands
and  acknowledges  that his  obligations  under  this  Section 9 will  survive
termination  of his  employment,  and will  continue  indefinitely  unless and
until  any  such  Confidential   Information  has  become,  in  the  Company's
reasonable  judgment,  stale,  or, through no fault of Executive's,  generally
known to the public or until the  Executive  is required by  operation  of law
(after  providing the Company with notice and an  opportunity  to contest such
requirement) to make such disclosure.

The Executive's  obligations  under this Section 9 are in addition to, and not
in limitation  or  preemption  of, all other  obligations  of  confidentiality
which the Executive  may have to the Company  under general or specific  legal
or equitable principles.

            (b) Return Of All Property  And  Documents.  Upon the  termination
of his  employment  for any reason or no  reason,  the  Executive  immediately
shall  return  to  the  Company  all  of  its  property,   including   without
limitation,   all  documents  (including  copies)  and  information,   however
maintained  (including  computer  files,  computers,   equipment,  tapes,  and
recordings),  concerning  the  Company or  acquired  by the  Executive  in the
course and scope of his employment  (excluding only those  documents  relating
solely to the Executive's own salary and benefits).

            (c)  Non-Interference.  Throughout  the  Term and  continuing  for
the twelve (12) month  period  immediately  following  the  expiration  of the
Term, and  notwithstanding  the Agreement's earlier termination except if such
termination  is pursuant to Section 7(a),  the  Executive  shall not: (i) hire
or employ,  directly or indirectly,  through any  enterprise  with which he is
associated,  any employee of the Company;  or (ii) recruit,  solicit or induce
(or in any way assist another  person or enterprise in recruiting,  soliciting
or inducing) any such employee,  or any consultant,  vendor or supplier of the
Company to terminate or reduce such person's  employment,  consulting or other
business relationship with the Company.

            (d)  Non-Solicitation.  Throughout  the  Term and  continuing  for
the twelve (12) month  period  immediately  following  the  expiration  of the
Term, and  notwithstanding  the Agreement's earlier termination except if such
termination is pursuant to Section 7(a), the Executive shall not,  directly or
indirectly,  in any  capacity:  (i) solicit the  business or  patronage of any
Customer,  as herein  defined,  for any other  person or entity,  (ii) divert,
entice,  or otherwise  take away from the Company the business or patronage of
any Customer,  or attempt to do so, or (iii) solicit or induce any Customer to
terminate or reduce its relationship with the Company.

            (e)  Non-Competition.  The  Executive  acknowledges  that,  as  of
the  execution of this  Agreement,  (i) the Company is engaged in the business
of healthcare  connectivity (the "Business");  (ii) the Company's  Business is
conducted  currently  throughout  the United  States,  and may be  expanded to
other  locations;  (iii) his employment  with the Company has given him access
to trade secrets and  Confidential  Information  concerning  the Company;  and
(iv) the  agreements  and covenants  contained in this Agreement are essential
to  protect  the  Business  and  goodwill  of the  Company.  Accordingly,  the
Executive covenants and agrees as follows:

               (i)  Throughout  the Term and continuing for a period of twelve
      (12) months after termination of the Executive's  employment,  except if
      such  termination is pursuant to Section 7(a),  the Executive  shall not
      directly  or  indirectly,   render  services  to,  act  as  an  officer,
      director,  partner,  consultant or employee of, or otherwise  assist any
      Competitor.  "Competitor"  as used  herein  means  any  person,  firm or
      organization (or parent,  subsidiary or affiliate thereof) engaged in or
      about to  become  engaged  in  research  on,  or the  production  and/or
      provision of any Relevant  Services,  regarding  which the Executive has
      obtained  Confidential  Information by virtue of his employment with the
      Company or with respect to which the  Executive  can exert a competitive
      influence  by virtue of the special and unique  services he has provided
      the Company.

               (ii)  Throughout  the  Term  and  continuing  for a  period  of
      twelve (12) months  after  termination,  except if such  termination  is
      pursuant to Section 7(a),  the  Executive  shall not engage in any other
      business  activities  directly  or  indirectly,  which  are  or  may  be
      competitive  with,  or which  might place the  Executive  in a competing
      position to, that of the Company or any affiliated Company;

               (iii)  Throughout  the Term  and  continuing  for a  period  of
      twelve (12) months  after  termination,  except if such  termination  is
      pursuant  to  Section  7(a),  the  Executive  shall  not,   directly  or
      indirectly,  in any  capacity:  (A) provide or assist with the provision
      of Relevant  Services,  except as an employee of the Company;  or (B) be
      employed by or affiliated or associated in a business  capacity with any
      person or entity in the business of providing  Relevant  Services  other
      than the Company;

               (iv) If the  Executive  should be  unable to obtain  employment
      consistent  with  his  training  and  education  solely  because  of the
      provisions of this Section,  such  provisions  shall be binding upon the
      Executive  for only so long as the  Company  shall make  payments to the
      Executive  equal to his monthly  Base Salary at  termination  (including
      payment of health insurance  premiums,  if any,  provided by the Company
      on behalf of the Executive as of the date of Termination,  but exclusive
      of any  additional  compensation  and all other  employee  benefits) for
      each  month in which  the  Executive  shall:  (i) be  unable  to  obtain
      employment  solely  because of this  Section;  (ii)  provide the Company
      with a written affidavit  declaring under oath that he is not in any way
      assisting  a  Competitor   and  that  he  has   conscientiously   sought
      employment,  but has been  unable to obtain  employment  because of this
      Section and describing in detail his efforts to obtain  employment;  and
      (iii) provide the Company with any further information  requested by the
      Company to clarify,  substantiate, or expand upon the statements made in
      such  affidavit.  The Company's  obligation to make or continue  monthly
      payments  hereunder shall terminate  either by the Company's  giving the
      Executive a written release from his  obligations  under this Section or
      upon  the   Executive's   obtaining   employment   consistent  with  the
      provisions of this Section,  whichever  occurs sooner.  Executive  shall
      promptly give written  notice of such  employment to the Company  within
      five  (5)  days  of  acceptance  of  such   employment.   The  Company's
      obligation  to make the  monthly  payments  hereunder  shall in no event
      continue more than six (6) months immediately  following  termination of
      the Executive's  employment with the Company,  and in no event shall the
      Company be liable under this Agreement for any action  relating  thereto
      for any amount  greater than the  aggregate  of such  monthly  payments.
      Payments due  hereunder,  if any,  shall be made in accordance  with the
      Company's regular procedures.

                  (v)  Executive  agrees  that he will  provide a copy of this
      Agreement  to any  prospective  employer  with whom he is  contemplating
      discussing  or  interviewing  for  possible  employment  during the time
      period during which this Section is effective.

            (f)  Certain Definitions.  For purposes of this Agreement:

            (i)  "Relevant  Services"  shall mean (a)  directly  related to or
      within  the  scope  of  the  existing  business  of the  Company  [as an
      internet based,  healthcare  software  company] or (b) any other product
      or service  within the logical  scope of the  business of the Company as
      such scope may be expanded or altered by the Board of Directors  and (c)
      any other  services  or products  provided  by the Company  from time to
      time which,  at any time during the twelve  (12)  months  preceding  the
      termination of the Executive's employment.

            (ii)  "Customer"  means any  person or entity to the  extent  that
      such  person or  entity  (A) is  receiving  Relevant  Services  from the
      Company on the date of termination of the  Executive's  employment  with
      the Company,  (B) received  such services for  compensation  at any time
      during  the  one-year   period   immediately   preceding   the  date  of
      termination  of the  Executive's  employment  with the Company or (C) at
      any time during the one-year  period  immediately  preceding the date of
      termination  of  the   Executive's   employment  with  the  Company  was
      solicited  by the  Executive,  directly  or  indirectly,  in whole or in
      part, on behalf of the Company to provide Relevant Services.

            (g) Litigation and  Regulatory  Cooperation.  During and after the
Executive's  employment,   notwithstanding  the  cause  of  termination,   the
Executive   shall   cooperate  fully  with  the  Company  in  the  defense  or
prosecution  of any claims or actions now in existence or which may be brought
in the future  against or on behalf of the Company  which  relate to events or
occurrences  that transpired  while the Executive was employed by the Company.
The  Executive's  full  cooperation in connection  with such claims or actions
shall include,  but not be limited to, being available to meet with counsel to
prepare for discovery,  trial,  arbitration,  mediation,  or other alternative
dispute  resolution,  and to act as a  witness  on behalf  of the  Company  at
mutually  convenient times. During and after the Executive's  employment,  the
Executive  shall also cooperate  fully with the Company in connection with any
investigation or review of any federal,  state or local  regulatory  authority
provided that such  investigation  or review  relates to events or occurrences
which  transpired  while  the  Executive  was  employed  by the  Company.  The
Company  shall  reimburse  the  Executive  for  any  reasonable  out-of-pocket
expenses   incurred  in  connection  with  the   Executive's   performance  of
obligations pursuant to this Section 9(g).

            (h)   Nondisparagement.   During   and   after   the   Executive's
employment,  notwithstanding the cause of termination, Executive agrees not to
take any  action or make any  statement,  written or oral,  to any  current or
former  employee of the Company or to any other  person which  disparages  the
Company, their management,  directors or shareholders, as applicable, or their
practices  or which  disrupts or impairs  their normal  operations,  including
actions or statements  (i) that would harm the  reputation of the Company,  as
applicable,  with their clients,  suppliers,  employees or the public, or (ii)
that would  interfere with existing or  prospective  contractual or employment
relationships with clients, suppliers or individuals.

            (i)  Remedies.  The  Company's  obligation  to  make  payments  or
provide any benefits  under this  Agreement  (except to the extent  previously
vested)  shall cease upon any  violation of the  provisions of this Section 9.
In addition,  in the event of a violation by the  Executive of the  provisions
of this  Section 9, the Company  shall be entitled,  if it shall so elect,  to
institute  legal  proceedings  to obtain  damages for any such  breach,  or to
enforce the  specific  performance  by the  Executive of this Section 9 and to
enjoin  the  Executive  from any  further  violation,  and may  exercise  such
remedies  cumulatively  or in  conjunction  with such other remedies as may be
available  to  the  Company  at  law  or  in  equity.  Executive  agrees  that
irreparable  harm should be if any  provision of this Section 9 is breached in
any way.  The  Executive  agrees  that it would be  difficult  to measure  any
damages to the Company  which might result from any breach by the Executive of
the promises set forth in this Section 9, and that in any event money  damages
would be an  inadequate  remedy for any such  breach.  Executive  agrees  that
faithful  adherence to the terms of this Section is an essential  condition of
employment  with the Company.  Accordingly,  the Executive  agrees that if the
Executive  breaches any  provision  of this  Agreement,  the Company  shall be
entitled,  in  addition  to  all  other  remedies  that  it  may  have,  to an
injunction or other appropriate  equitable relief to restrain any such breach,
without the  requirement  of posting  any bond in  connection  with  obtaining
temporary  or  injunctive  relief,  and without  showing or proving any actual
damage to the Company.  Nothing herein shall be construed as  prohibiting  the
Company  from  pursuing  any other  remedy  available  to the Company for such
breach or  threatened  breach,  including  but not limited to, the recovery of
damages against the Executive.

            (j)   Survival;   Authorization   to  Modify   Restrictions.   The
Executive  acknowledges and agrees that the covenants of the Executive and the
restrictions  contained  in  this  Section  9  are  intended  to  protect  the
Company's  interest  in  its  Confidential   Information  and  its  commercial
relationships  and  goodwill  with  its  customers,   prospective   customers,
vendors,   suppliers,   consultants  and  employees.   The  Executive  further
acknowledges  and  agrees  that  the  covenants  of  the  Executive,  and  the
restrictions  contained in this Section 9, shall survive  termination  of this
Agreement and any termination of the Executive's  employment,  for the periods
stated  herein and shall  continue in full force and effect  regardless of any
change in the  Executive's  title,  duties,  responsibility,  compensation  or
benefits while he remains employed by the Company.

            The  Executive  represents  that he has read and  understands  the
provisions  of this  Agreement,  including  this Section 9 that he has had the
opportunity to consult with counsel  concerning such  provisions,  and that he
understands  the  effect  of  such  provisions  on his  ability  to  earn  his
livelihood  upon any  termination  of his  employment  with the  Company.  The
Executive   acknowledges   that  it  would  cause  the  Company   serious  and
irreparable  injury  and  cost  if  Executive  were  to use  his  ability  and
knowledge  in  competition  with  the  Company  or  to  otherwise  breach  the
obligations  contained  in this Section 9 and, in view of the nature and level
of his  responsibilities  and the level of his  compensation,  agrees that the
provisions  of  this  Section  9  are  reasonable.   Accordingly,  it  is  the
intention  of the  parties  that the  provisions  of this  Section  9 shall be
enforceable to the fullest extent  permissible  under applicable law, but that
if any portion or provision of this Agreement  shall to any extent be declared
illegal or  unenforceable by a court of competent  jurisdiction,  then (A) the
court  may amend  such  portion  or  provision  so as to comply  with law in a
manner  consistent with the intention of this Agreement,  (B) the remainder of
this Agreement,  or the application of such illegal or  unenforceable  portion
or provision in  circumstances  other than those as to which it is so declared
illegal or  unenforceable,  shall not be affected thereby and (C) each portion
or provision of this Agreement  shall be valid and  enforceable to the fullest
extent permitted by law.

            (k)  Jurisdiction  and Venue.  The  parties  agree that any action
by the Company to enforce the  covenants  and  restrictions  contained in this
Section  9 or  any  action  by  either  party  to  obtain  a  judgment  on  an
arbitrator's  award referred to in Section 11 may be instituted and maintained
in the state or  federal  courts in New York,  New York.  Subject to the first
sentence of Section 11 hereof,  the parties hereby  irrevocably  submit to the
jurisdiction  of the state  and  federal  courts in New York,  New York in any
suit,  action or proceeding  arising under, or relating to, this Agreement and
hereby  irrevocably waive any objections to the venue of any of such courts in
any such suit, action or proceeding,  including any claim that any other court
constitutes a more appropriate or convenient forum.

            10. Proprietary Developments.

            (a) The  Executive  acknowledges  that he has been an employee and
officer of the  Company  and its  predecessor  during the  development  of the
software and Intellectual Property, as defined herein,  currently owned by the
Company,  and the  Executive  makes no claim to any right,  title or  interest
(including patent rights,  copyrights,  trade secret rights, trademark rights,
sui generic database  rights,  and all other  intellectual  property rights of
any sort throughout the world),  made or conceived or reduced to practice,  in
whole or in part, by Executive  during such  employment by the Company and its
predecessors  that  relate  to  such  Intellectual   Property.   Any  and  all
inventions (whether or not patentable),  products, discoveries,  improvements,
processes, methods, computer software programs, models, techniques,  formulae,
trade secrets, service marks, patent rights,  copyrights, sui generis database
rights,  designs,  designations,  know-how,  ideas,  trademarks  and  works of
authorship   (collectively,   hereinafter   referred   to   as   "Intellectual
Property"),  made,  developed  or  created  by  the  Executive  (alone  or  in
conjunction  with others,  during  regular hours of work or otherwise)  during
the Executive's  employment by the Company and its predecessors,  which may be
directly or indirectly  useful in, or relate to,  business  conducted or to be
conducted by the Company  shall be the Company's  exclusive  property and will
be promptly  disclosed by the Executive to the Company.  To the fullest extent
permitted by law, such  Intellectual  Property  shall be deemed works made for
hire.

                        (b)  Executive  hereby  transfers  and  assigns to the
Company  or its  designated  affiliate  any  right,  title or  interest  which
Executive  may have or acquire in any such  Intellectual  Property  (including
patent rights, copyrights,  trade secret rights, trademark rights, sui generis
database  rights,  and all  other  intellectual  property  rights  of any sort
throughout  the world)  relating  to any and all  inventions  (whether  or not
patentable), works of authorship,  designations,  designs, know-how, ideas and
information made or conceived or reduced to practice,  in whole or in part, by
Executive,  (i) during the Term that relate to the subject matter of, or arise
out of,  his  services  to the  Company,  (ii) are  referred  to in clause (a)
above,  or (iii)  constitute any  Proprietary  Information  (as defined below)
(collectively,  "Inventions").  Executive  will promptly  disclose and provide
all  Inventions  to Company.  Executive  waives any  license or other  special
right  which  Executive  may  have or  accrue  therein.  Executive  agrees  to
execute  any  documents  and to take  any  actions  that may be  required,  as
reasonably  determined  by the Company's  counsel,  to effect and confirm such
transfer,  assignment and waiver.  Executive shall further assist Company,  at
its  request  and  expense,  to  further  evidence,  record and  perfect  such
assignments and to perfect,  obtain,  maintain,  enforce and defend any rights
assigned.  Executive hereby irrevocably designates and appoints the Company as
its  agent  and  attorney-in-fact  to act for  and in  Executive's  behalf  to
execute and file any documents and to do all other lawfully  permitted acts to
further the  foregoing  with the same legal force and effect as if executed by
Consultant.  The  Executive  shall,  upon the Company's  request,  execute any
documents  necessary or advisable in the opinion of the  Company's  counsel to
direct the issuance of patents,  trademarks  or  copyrights  to the Company or
its designated affiliate with respect to such Intellectual  Property as are to
be the Company's  exclusive  property  under this Section 10 or to vest in the
Company or such affiliate title to such Intellectual  Property, the expense of
securing  any patent,  trademark  or  copyright,  however,  to be borne by the
Company or such  affiliate.  The  Executive  will keep  confidential  and will
hold for sole benefit of the Company any Intellectual  Property which is to be
their exclusive property under this Section 10 for which no patent,  trademark
or copyright is issued.

                        (c)   Executive  agrees  that all  Inventions  and all
other  business,  customer,  marketing,  technical and  financial  information
(including,  without limitation,  the identity of and information  relating to
the Company's  customers or employees)  that Executive  developed,  learned or
obtained  for or about the Company  and its  predecessors,  or that  Executive
develops,  learns or obtains during the Term that relate to the Company or the
business or that are received by or for the Company in confidence,  constitute
"Proprietary  Information,"  provided that Proprietary  Information  shall not
include  information  in the  public  domain  through  no fault of  Executive.
Executive  will hold in  confidence  and not disclose or, except in performing
the services hereunder, use any Proprietary  Information.  Upon termination of
this  Agreement,  and  as  otherwise  requested  by  Company,  Executive  will
promptly  return to  Company  all items and  copies  containing  or  embodying
Proprietary  Information,  except that  Executive may keep personal  copies of
his compensation records and this Agreement.

            (d)  As  additional   protection  for   Proprietary   Information,
Executive agrees that during the Term and for one year  thereafter,  Executive
will not  encourage or solicit any employee or  consultant of Company to leave
Company for any reason.  As further  protection,  Executive will not engage in
any activity that is in any way competitive  with the business of the Company,
and Executive  will not assist any other person or  organization  in competing
or in preparing to compete with any business of Company.

            (e) The Executive  agrees that  non-public  terms of  Intellectual
Property  shall  constitute  Confidential  Information  within the  meaning of
Section 9.

            (f) The  foregoing  provisions of this Section 10 shall be binding
upon the Executive's  heirs and legal  representatives.  The agreements of the
Executive  in this  Section  shall be  enforceable  by  injunction  and  shall
survive the termination of this Agreement

            11.  Resolution  of  Disputes.  Except as  otherwise  provided  in
Section 9, any dispute or  controversy  arising  under or in  connection  with
this  Agreement  shall be settled  exclusively by arbitration in New York, New
York,  by three  arbitrators  in  accordance  with the  rules of the  American
Arbitration  Association  then  in  effect.  Judgment  may be  entered  on the
arbitrators' award in any court having jurisdiction.

            12.  Full  Settlement.   The  Company's  obligation  to  make  any
payment   provided  for  in  this  Agreement  and  otherwise  to  perform  its
obligations  hereunder shall be in lieu of all other severance payments to the
Executive  under any other  severance  plan,  arrangement  or agreement of the
Company and its  affiliates,  and in full  settlement of any and all claims or
rights of the Executive for severance,  separation and/or salary  continuation
payments resulting from the termination of his employment.

            13.  Withholding  Taxes.  The  Company  shall  withhold  from  any
payments made under this Agreement all federal,  state, city or other taxes as
shall be required pursuant to any law or governmental regulation or ruling.

            14.  Consolidation,  Merger,  or Sale of  Assets.  Nothing in this
Agreement  shall  preclude the Company from  consolidating  or merging into or
with,  or  transferring  all or  substantially  all of its assets to,  another
corporation  or entity which assumes this  Agreement and all  obligations  and
undertakings of the Company  hereunder.  Upon such a consolidation,  merger or
transfer of assets and  assumption,  the term  "Company"  as used herein shall
mean such other  corporation or entity,  and this Agreement  shall continue in
full force and effect.

            15.   Notices.

            (a)   General.   All   notices,   requests,   demands   and  other
communications  required or permitted  hereunder shall be given in writing and
shall be deemed to have been duly given when  delivered  or 5 days after being
deposited in the United States mail,  certified and return receipt  requested,
postage prepaid, addressed as follows:

            (i)  To the Company: John T. Lane, Chairman of the Board
                                 Medix Resources, Inc.
                                 The Graybar Building, Suite 1830
                                 420 Lexington Avenue
                                 New York, New York 10170


                                 Copy to:

                                 P.A. Minicucci
                                 L. B. Stewart

             (ii)  To the Executive:   John R. Prufeta, President &amp; CEO
                                 Medix Resources, Inc.
                                 The Graybar Building, Suite 1830
                                 420 Lexington Avenue
                                 New York, New York 10170


            or to  such  other  address  as the  addressee  party  shall  have
previously specified in writing to the other.

            (b)   Notice  of  Termination.  Except in the case of death of the
Executive,  any  termination of the Executives  employment  hereunder prior to
the  expiration of the Term pursuant to Section 7, whether by the Executive or
the  Company,  shall be effected  only by a written  notice given to the other
party in  accordance  with  this  Section  15("Notice  of  Termination").  Any
Notice of Termination  shall (i) indicate the specific  termination  provision
in Section 7 relied upon,  (ii) in the case of a  termination  for Cause,  set
forth in reasonable  detail the facts and  circumstances  claimed to provide a
basis  for such  termination  and (iii)  specify  the  effective  date of such
termination  of  employment  (the "Date of  Termination"),  which shall not be
less 10 days nor more than 90 days after  such  notice is given.  The  failure
of the Executive or the Company to set forth in any Notice of Termination  any
fact or circumstance  which  contributes to a showing of Cause shall not waive
any right of the Executive or the Company  hereunder or preclude the Executive
or the Company from  asserting  such fact or  circumstance  in  enforcing  the
Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder.

            16.     Indemnification.  The  Company  shall  indemnify  and hold
harmless  Executive  to the full  extent  required  by law. To the extent that
any of the Company's  officers or directors are covered by or benefit from one
or more, Director and Officers'  liability  insurance policies,  the Executive
shall also be covered by or benefit from such policy or policies.

            17.  No  Attachment.  Except  as  required  by law,  no  right  to
receive  payments  under this  Agreement  shall be  subject  to  anticipation,
commutation,  alienation,  sale, assignment,  encumbrance,  charge, pledge, or
hypothecation  or  to  execution,  attachment,  levy  or  similar  process  or
assignment by operation of law, and any attempt, voluntary or involuntary,  to
effect  any  such  action  shall be null,  void  and of no  effect;  provided,
                                                                     ---------
however,  that nothing in this Section 17 shall  preclude  the  assumption  of
such rights by executors,  administrators,  or other legal  representatives of
the  Executive or his estate or their  assigning  any rights  hereunder to the
person or persons entitled thereto.

            18.  Binding  Agreement.  This  Agreement  shall be binding  upon,
and shall  inure to the  benefit of, the  Executive  and the  Company  and, as
permitted by this Agreement,  their  respective  successors,  assigns,  heirs,
beneficiaries and representatives.

            19.  Counterparts;  Headings;  Interpretation.  This Agreement may
be executed in counterparts,  each of which, when executed, shall be deemed to
be an  original  and all of which  together  shall be deemed to be one and the
same instrument.  The underlined  Section headings contained in this Agreement
are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the  interpretation
or  construction  of any  provision  hereof.  This  Agreement is the result of
negotiation  and compromise  between the parties hereto,  each  represented by
counsel.  The fact that either party,  in the course of  negotiations,  agreed
to an  addition,  deletion  or  change  requested  by the  other  party in the
language of this  Agreement  shall not be deemed an  admission  of fact by the
party agreeing to such change.

            20.  Arbitration.  Except as  otherwise  provided  in  Section  9,
any  controversy,  dispute  or  claim  arising  out of,  or  relating  to this
Agreement and/or its  interpretation  shall be settled by binding  arbitration
in  New  York,  New  York  in  accordance  with  the  Rules  of  the  American
Arbitration  Association  for  employment  disputes then in effect.  The award
rendered by the  arbitrators  shall be final and  judgment may be entered upon
the award in any court having  jurisdiction.  If any legal  proceeding  and/or
arbitration  is brought to enforce or interpret  the terms of this  Agreement,
each  party  shall  bear  its  own  attorney's  fees,   costs,  and  necessary
disbursements in such legal proceeding and/or  arbitration except as otherwise
provided herein.

            21.   General Provisions.

            (a)   Non-Assignment.   The  Executive's  rights  and  obligations
under this  Agreement  shall not be  transferable  by assignment or otherwise,
nor shall  Executive's  rights be subject to  encumbrance  or to the claims of
the  Company's  creditors.   Nothing  in  this  Agreement  shall  prevent  the
consolidation of the Company,  with or its merger into, any other corporation,
or the sale by the  Company of all or  substantially  all of its  property  or
assets.  However,  the rights of the Executive  hereunder shall be enforceable
against any successor to the Company,  and the rights of the Company hereunder
shall benefit any successor to the Company.

            (b)  Entire   Agreement;   Amendments.   This  Agreement  and  the
rights  of  Executive  with  respect  to  the   obligations  and  benefits  of
employment recited in this Agreement,  constitute the entire Agreement between
the  parties  hereto in  respect of the  employment  of the  Executive  by the
Company and supersede any and all other  agreements  either oral or in writing
between the parties  hereto with respect to the  employment of the  Executive.
No amendment  or waiver of this  Agreement  or any  provision  hereof shall be
effective  unless  contained in a writing  executed by the party  against whom
such amendment or waiver is asserted,  and in the case of the Company,  by its
duly authorized officer.

            (c)  Divisible.   The  provisions  of  this  Agreement   shall  be
regarded as divisible,  and if any of said provisions or any part there of are
declared invalid or unenforceable  by a court of competent  jurisdiction,  the
validity  and  enforceability  of the  remainder of such  provisions  or parts
there of and the applicability there of shall not be affected thereby.

            (d)  Governing  Law.  The  validity,  interpretation,  performance
and  enforcement of this Agreement  shall be governed  exclusively by the laws
of the State of New York,  without  regard to  principles of conflicts of laws
thereof.

            (e)   Construction.   Throughout  this  Agreement,   the  singular
shall include the plural,  and the plural shall include the singular,  and the
masculine  and neuter  shall  include the  feminine,  wherever  the context so
requires.

            (f) Text to Control.  The  headings  of  paragraphs  and  sections
are included  solely for  convenience  of reference.  If any conflict  between
any heading and the text of this Agreement exists, the text shall control.

            (g)  Authority.  The officer  executing  this  Agreement on behalf
of the  Company  has been  empowered  and  directed  to do so by the  Board of
Directors of the Company.


            IN  WITNESS   WHEREOF,   the  Company  and  the  Executive  hereby
voluntarily execute this Agreement,  as of the date first above written, after
arms-length negotiations,  with the full intention to be mutually bound by the
terms hereof.

                        FOR THE COMPANY:
                        MEDIX RESOURCES, INC.


                        By:   <U>/s/John T. Lane</U>
                              John T. Lane
                              Chairman of the Board

                        THE EXECUTIVE:

                        By:   <U>/s/John R. Prufeta   </U>
                              John R. Prufeta




<PAGE>



                                                                     Exhibit A
                               <U>JOB DESCRIPTION</U>

                    President and Chief Executive Officer
                            Medix Resources, Inc.

The Chief Executive Officer and President of Medix Resources, Inc. shall be
responsible for the day to day management and operation of the Company. He
shall have full authority and responsibility for the Company's balance sheet
and profit &amp; loss statements. He will be subject to the general direction,
approval and control of the Company's Executive Committee and Board of
Directors.

<U>RESPONSIBILITIES</U>

o  Day to day management and operation of the Company.

o  Authority and responsibility of the balance sheet and profit &amp; loss
   statements.

o  Provision of near term and long term budgets and plans as requested by the
   Board of Directors.

o  Management of budget &amp; policies as determined by the Executive Committee,
   other Board Committees and the Board of Directors.

o  Management of investment banking activities.

o  Management of any merger and acquisition activities.

o  Development of distribution networks for the Company's products, including
   any subsidiaries. .

o  Management of all other executives hired by the Company for the purposes
   of conducting and executing the Company's strategy and operations.

o  Oversight of all public &amp; investor relations activities.

o  Organization and attendance of all monthly and quarterly Board of
   Directors meetings.

o  Executive  shall  be the  Chairman  of the  Board  for  each and any of the
   Company's  subsidiaries,  and if he is not the chief  executive  officer of
   the subsidiary,  the president,  chief executive officer or chief operating
   officer  of the  subsidiary  shall  report to the  Executive  on a mutually
   agreed upon schedule, regarding the activities of the subsidiary.



<PAGE>

                                                                     Exhibit B



                               2002 Bonus Plan
                     President &amp; Chief Executive Officer

The Board of Directors has structured a calendar year, 2002 CEO bonus program
as follows:
                                        Max Bonus       Performance
Performance Criteria    Weighting       Potential       Thresholds
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------
 1. Investment
    Financing (2002)                                    o $8mm   Minimum
                           50%          $200,000        o $10mm  Middle
                                                        o $15mm  High
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------
 2. Earned Revenue
    (2002)                 30%          $120,000        o $2.5mm Minimum
                                                        o $3.6mm Middle
                                                        o $5.0mm High
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------
 3. Enterprise
    Development            20%           $80,000        o Board Discretion
    (2002)
 -------------------------------====================----------------------

               TOTAL      100%          $400,000
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------




<PAGE>

                                                                     Exhibit C


                         2002 Incentive Stock Options
                     President &amp; Chief Executive Officer


Incentive Stock    Exercise      Expiration      Performance Vesting
   Options          Price           Date            Requirements
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------

     200,000        $.70          5 Years         o100,000 Minimum investment
                                  (1/22/2007)              financing

                                                  o 200,000 Target investment
                                                            financing
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------


</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>exhibit-10_12.htm
<DESCRIPTION>10.12
<TEXT>
<HTML><HEAD><TITLE>exhibit-10_2</TITLE></HEAD>
<BODY>
<PRE>

                                                                <B>Exhibit 10.12
                                                                -------------
                       EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT</B>


      EXECUTIVE  EMPLOYMENT  AGREEMENT,  dated  as  of  May  14,  2001,  (the
"Agreement")  by and between Medix  Resources,  Inc., a Colorado  corporation
with its  principal  offices  located at Suite 301,  7100 E.  Belleview  Ave,
Greenwood  Village,  Colorado.  ("the  Company")  and  Louis  E.  Hyman  (the
"Executive").
      NOW THEREFORE,  in consideration  of the foregoing  premises and mutual
covenants herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:

      1.    Employment.  The Company  agrees to employ the  Executive and the
Executive  agrees to serve the Company as its Executive Vice President  (EVP)
and Chief Technology Officer (CTO).

      2.    Responsibilities  and  Supervision.  The  Executive  shall devote
all of his  business  time and  attention  to the  affairs of the Company and
its  affiliated  companies.  The  Executive  shall  be  responsible  for  the
overall   development  and  production  of  software  products,   information
technology  infrastructure and  technology-related  sales support activities,
in each case subject to the general  direction,  approval and  supervision of
the Company's  President &amp; Chief Executive  Officer and to the  restrictions,
limitations   and   guidelines  set  forth  by  the  Board  of  Directors  in
resolutions  adopted  in the  minutes  of the  Board of  Directors  meetings,
copies of which  shall be  provided to the  Executive  from time to time.  In
the  performance  of his duties,  the Executive  shall  maintain an office at
180 Tices Lane,  East  Brunswick,  NJ,  08816  and/or as the  President &amp; CEO
directs to optimize  execution of the Executive's job  responsibilities.  The
terms  "affiliate of" a company or "affiliated  company" as used herein means
any  company  directly  or  indirectly  controlling,  controlled  by or under
common  control  with the other  company.  A  presumption  of  control  shall
exist for any person  owning or  controlling  10% or more of the  outstanding
voting  securities  of a  company,  and  any  officer,  director  or  general
partner of a company.

      3.    Term of  Employment.  The  period of the  Executive's  employment
underthis  Agreement  shall begin on May 14, 2001 and be for a 2-year  period
ending May 14,  2003,  subject  to the  termination  provisions  set forth in
Paragraphs 11, 12, and 13 hereunder.

4. 4.             Duties.   During  the  period of his  employment  hereunder
and except for illness,  specified  vacation periods and reasonable leaves of
absence,  the  Executive  shall  devote his best efforts and all his business
time,  attention  and skill to the  business  and  affairs of the Company and
its  affiliated  companies,  as such  business  and  affairs now exist and as
they may be hereinafter  changed or added to, provided,  however,  that, with
approval of the Board of Directors of the Company,  the  Executive may serve,
on the board of  directors  of, or hold any other  offices or  positions  in,
companies  or  organizations  which,  in  such  Board's  judgment,  will  not
present  any   conflict   of  interest   with  the  Company  or  any  of  its
subsidiaries   or  affiliates  or   divisions,   or  materially   affect  the
performance of Executive's  duties  pursuant to this  Agreement;  and further
provided  that the outside  business is not a "Business  Opportunity"  of the
Company,  as defined herein.  A Business  Opportunity of the Company shall be
a  product,  service,  investment,  venture  or other  opportunity,  which is
either:

(a)   Directly  related to or within the scope of the  existing  business  of
                        the Company; or

(b)   Within  the  logical  scope of the  business  of the  Company,  as such
                        scope may be  expanded or altered  from  time-to-time
                        by the Board of Directors.

5. Compensation.  The  Company  shall pay to the  Executive  as  compensation
for his  services,  the base  salary  of  $200,000  per  year or such  higher
salary as from  time-to-time  may be approved by the  President &amp; CEO and the
Board of  Directors,  payable  bi-weekly  in  accordance  with the  Company's
normal payroll  procedures.  The Executive also is eligible to participate in
an  executive-level  bonus plan,  the terms and  provisions  of which will be
authorized by the Board of Directors.

            As  additional  compensation  hereunder,  upon the  execution  of
this  Agreement,  the Company will grant to the Executive  230,000 options to
purchase  common stock of the Company under the  Company's  1999 Stock Option
Plan, at an exercise  price that is the closing price of the Company's  stock
on the  Executive's  start date,  May 14, 2001.  Such options are intended to
be  classified as incentive  stock  options for tax purposes,  and shall vest
and  expire  and be subject  to such  other  terms as  provided  on Exhibit A
attached  hereto.  Terms of the Stock  Option  grant are set forth in a Stock
Option  Agreement  in the form used  pursuant  to such Plan and  attached  to
this agreement.

      6.    Expense   Reimbursement.   The   Company   will   reimburse   the
Executive  for all  reasonable  and  necessary  expenses  incurred  by him in
carrying  out his  duties  under  this  Agreement,  including  entertainment,
travel and lodging  costs.  The Executive  shall present an itemized  account
of such  expenses  in such form as is required  by the  Company's  accounting
policies to the Chief Executive Officer or his designate, each month. .

      7.    Medical  Coverage  and Other  Employee  Benefits.  The  Executive
will be eligible to participate in the Company's  current  standard  benefits
package,  which  provides  health  insurance with limited  Company  payments,
long term disability,  limited sick time accrual, paid holidays,  401(k) Plan
participation  when eligible and term life insurance at Executive's  cost, on
the same basis as other  Executives  of the Company.  Where  applicable,  the
Executive will be a designated "key" employee.

      8.    Vacation Time.  The Executive  shall be entitled to take four (4)
weeks paid  vacation per  calendar  year.  Such  vacation may not be taken in
any greater than  consecutive two (2) week  increments.  Vacation not used by
the Executive  during the calendar year will be forfeited.  Compensation  for
vacation  time not taken by Executive  shall be paid to the  Executive at the
date of termination.

      9.    Obligations of Executive During and After Employment. (a)     The
Executive  agrees  that  during  the  terms  of  his  employment  under  this
Agreement  or while  receiving  compensation  under this  Agreement,  he will
engage in no other business activities  directly or indirectly,  which are or
may be competitive  with or which might place him in a competing  position to
that of the Company, or any affiliated company.

      (b)   The   Executive   realizes   that   during   the  course  of  his
employment,  Executive will have produced  and/or have access to confidential
business plans, information,  business opportunity records,  notebooks, data,
formula,  specifications,  trade secrets,  customer lists,  account lists and
secret   inventions   and  processes  of  the  Company  and  its   affiliated
companies.  Therefore,  during  his  employment  by  the  Company  or  by  an
affiliated  company or while  receiving  compensation  under this  Agreement,
the  Executive   agrees  to  hold  in  confidence  and  not  to  directly  or
indirectly  disclose  or use or copy or make  lists of any such  information,
except  to the  extent  authorized  by the  Chief  Executive  Officer  of the
Company  in  writing.  All  records,   files,   business  plans,   documents,
equipment  and the  like,  or copies  thereof,  including  copies on  Company
computers,  relating to Company's business,  or the business of an affiliated
company,  which Executive  shall prepare,  or use, or come into contact with,
shall remain the sole property of the Company,  or of an affiliated  company,
and shall not be  removed  from the  Company's  or the  affiliated  company's
premises  without the written  consent of the Chief  Executive  Officer,  and
shall be promptly  returned to the Company  upon  termination  of  employment
with the Company and its affiliated  companies.  All equipment,  software and
other  materials  provided to the  Executive  by the Company  will remain the
property  of the Company  and must be  available  to the Company at all times
for  servicing,  security  checks,  and any other  purposes and the Executive
agrees to turn such items over to the Company, immediately upon request.

(c)   Because of his  employment by the Company,  Executive  will have access
to  trade  secrets  and  confidential  information  about  the  Company,  its
business  plan,  its business  opportunities,  and its  expansion  plans into
other  geographical  areas  and its  methods  of  doing  business.  Executive
agrees  that  for  a  period  of  one  (1)  year  after  termination  of  his
employment,  he will not, directly or indirectly  compete with the Company in
a business  that is a  "Business  Opportunity"  of the  Company or defined in
Section 4 above.

(d)   The  Executive  further  agrees that after the term of his  employment,
he will not  disclose  or make use of any  proprietary  information  owned by
the  Company or  necessary  in the  operation  of the  Company's  products or
products under development.

(e)   In the event a court of competent  jurisdiction  finds any provision of
this  Section 9  to be so  over  broad  as to  be  unenforceable,  then  such
provision  shall be  reduced  in scope by the  court,  but only to the extent
deemed  necessary  by the  court  to  render  the  provision  reasonable  and
enforceable,  it being the Executive's  intention to provide the Company with
the broadest protection possible against harmful competition.

(f)   Irreparable  harm should be presumed if any  provision  of this Section
9 is breached in any way.  Damages  would be difficult if not  impossible  to
ascertain,  and the  faithful  observance  of all terms of such Section is an
essential  condition  of  employment  with  the  Company.  In  light of these
considerations,   Executive   acknowledges   that  a   court   of   competent
jurisdiction  should  immediately  enjoin  any  breach of this  Agreement  by
Executive,  upon the  Company's  request and the Company is released from the
requirement   of  posting  any  bond  in   connection   with   temporary   or
interlocutory  injunctive  relief,  to the extent  permitted by law.  Nothing
herein  shall be  construed  as  prohibiting  the Company  from  pursuing any
other remedy  available to the Company for such breach or  threatened  breach
including, but not limited to, the recovery of damages from the Executive.

10.   Intellectual Property Statement     (a)  Executive   acknowledges  that
he has been an  employee  and  officer of the  Company  and its  predecessors
during the development of the software and  intellectual  property  currently
owned by the Company,  and Executive makes no claim to any right,  all right,
title  or  interest  (including  patent  rights,  copyrights,   trade  secret
rights,  trademark  rights,  sui  generis  database  rights,  and  all  other
intellectual  property  rights of any sort  throughout the world) relating to
any and all  inventions  (whether or not  patentable),  works of  authorship,
designations,  designs,  know-how, ideas and information made or conceived or
reduced  to  practice,  in  whole  or  in  part,  by  Executive  during  such
employment by the Company and its  predecessors  that relate to such software
and intellectual property.

(b)   Executive  hereby  assigns to the Company any right,  title or interest
he may have  (including  patent  rights,  copyrights,  trade  secret  rights,
trademark  rights,  sui generis database rights,  and all other  intellectual
property  rights of any sort  throughout  the world)  relating to any and all
inventions  (whether or not patentable),  works of authorship,  designations,
designs,  know-how,  ideas and  information  made or  conceived or reduced to
practice,  in  whole or in part,  by  Executive,  (i)  during  the Term  that
relate to the  subject  matter  of, or arise out of, the  Services,  (ii) are
referred  to in  clause  (a)  above,  or  (iii)  constitute  any  Proprietary
Information  (as  defined  below)  (collectively,   "Inventions").  Executive
will  promptly  disclose  and provide all  Inventions  to Company.  Executive
shall  further  assist  Company,  at its  request  and  expense,  to  further
evidence,  record  and  perfect  such  assignments  and to  perfect,  obtain,
maintain,   enforce  and  defend  any  rights   assigned.   Executive  hereby
irrevocably   designates   and   appoints   the  Company  as  its  agent  and
attorney-in-fact  to act for and in  Executive's  behalf to execute  and file
any  documents  and to do all other  lawfully  permitted  acts to further the
foregoing with the same legal force and effect as if executed by Consultant.

(c)   Executive   agrees  that  all  Inventions   and  all  other   business,
customer,   marketing,   technical  and  financial  information   (including,
without  limitation,   the  identity  of  and  information  relating  to  the
Company's  customers  or  employees)  that  Executive  developed,  learned or
obtained for or about the Company and its  predecessors  in the past, or that
Executive  develops,  learns or obtains  during  the Term that  relate to the
Company  or the  business  or that  are  received  by or for the  Company  in
confidence,  constitute "Proprietary  Information," provided that Proprietary
Information  shall not include  information  in the public domain  through no
fault of Executive.  Executive  will hold in confidence  and not disclose or,
except in performing  the Services,  use any  Proprietary  Information.  Upon
termination  of  this  Agreement,  and as  otherwise  requested  by  Company,
Executive  will  promptly  return to Company all items and copies  containing
or  embodying  Proprietary  Information,   except  that  Executive  may  keep
personal copies of his compensation records and this Agreement.

(d)   As  additional  protection  for  Proprietary   Information,   Executive
agrees that during the Term and for one year  thereafter,  Executive will not
encourage or solicit any employee or  consultant  of Company to leave Company
for any  reason.  As  further  protection,  Executive  will not engage in any
activity  that is in any way  competitive  with the  business of the Company,
and Executive will not assist any other person or  organization  in competing
or in preparing to compete with any business of Company.

(e)   If any part of the  Services or  Inventions  is based on,  incorporates
or  constitutes  an improvement or derivative of, or cannot be reasonably and
fully made, used,  reproduced,  distributed and otherwise  exploited  without
using or  violating  technology  or  intellectual  property  rights  owned or
licensed by Executive  and not assigned  hereunder,  Executive  hereby grants
the  Company  and  its   successors  a  perpetual,   irrevocable,   worldwide
royalty-free,  non-exclusive,  sub-licensable  right and  license  to exploit
and exercise all such  technology  and  intellectual  property  rights in the
conduct of its business.

11.   Termination by the Company.

(a)   Termination for Cause by the Company.     During   the  first  year  of
the term of this  Agreement,  there can be no termination of the Executive by
the  Company  except  for   "Termination   for  Cause"  as  outlined   below:
Notwithstanding  anything  herein to the contrary,  the Company may,  without
liability,  terminate  the  Executive's  employment  hereunder for cause upon
five  days  written  notice,  and  there  after  the  Company's   obligations
hereunder shall cease and terminate.

      Grounds  for  termination  "for  cause"  shall  be one or  more  of the
following:

     (1)  A willful  breach of duty by the  Executive  during  the course of his
          employment;

     (2)  The conviction of the Executive of a felony;

     (3)  Habitual neglect of duty by the Executive;

     (4)  The  Executive's  material  failure to perform or meet  objective  and
          measurable  standards set by the President and Chief Executive Officer
          and agreed upon by the Executive in advance.

      (b)   Termination  Without Cause by the Company.  After the  completion
of the initial year of  employment  hereunder,  the Company may terminate the
employment  of the  Executive  upon thirty (30) days written  notice  without
cause.  In the event of termination  without cause,  the Company will pay the
Executive  six (6)  months  salary as  compensation.  In  addition,  at least
three  months  prior to the  expiration  of this  contract,  the Company will
either  notify  the  Executive  in  writing  that  the  contract  will not be
renewed  or will  commence  good  faith  negotiation  to enter  into a new or
modified  contract.  However,  failure  to  renew  the  Executive's  contract
shall not be deemed to be "termination without cause" hereunder.

12.   Termination  by the Executive.  The  Executive,  with or without cause,
may terminate  this  Agreement  upon 90 days' written  notice to the Company.
In such  event,  the  Executive  shall be  required  to render  the  services
required under this Agreement  during such 90-day  period,  unless  otherwise
directed  by the  Board of  Directors.  Executive  will be  compensated  only
through the final day of his employment.

13.   Termination  Upon  Death  of  Executive.   In  addition  to  any  other
provision  relating to  termination,  this Agreement shall terminate upon the
Executive's  death.  Upon Executive's  death, the Company shall pay in a lump
sum,  within  45  days  of the  Executive's  death,  to  such  person  as the
Executive  shall have  designated to the Company as his  beneficiary,  or, if
no such person is designated,  to the Executive's  estate, an amount equal to
all of the  Executive's  accrued  but unpaid  base  salary,  the value on the
Company's  books of any vested  but unused  vacation  time and  accrued  sick
time,  and all  unpaid  expense  reimbursements  at the  time of  Executive's
death.

14.   Triggering   Event  Lump  Sum   Compensation.   In  the  event  of  the
occurrence  of a  "Triggering  Event,"  which shall be defined to include (i)
change  in  ownership  of  50%  or  more  of the  outstanding  shares  of the
Company,  or (ii) the merger,  consolidation,  reorganization  or liquidation
of the Company  that  results in a change in  ownership of 50% or more in the
direct  or   indirect   ownership   of  the   Company   before  the   merger,
consolidation,  reorganization or liquidation,  the Executive shall receive a
lump sum  compensation  equal to his  annual  salary and  incentive  or bonus
payments,  if any,  as would  have  been  paid to the  Executive  during  the
Company's  then current  fiscal year (as if the  Executive  had been employed
for the full fiscal year),  within 30 days of the  Triggering  Event.  All of
Executive's  granted but unvested  options  shall  immediately  vest upon the
occurrence of a Triggering  Event,  and all of the shares  underlying all the
options  held by him  shall be  registered  on a Form  S-8 (or any  successor
form)  in a  timely  manner  (no  more  than 45 days  after  such  Triggering
Event),  to be sold to his by the Company or its  successor  as  unrestricted
and freely tradable  shares.  If Medix has been acquired by another  publicly
traded  company,  Medix  shall cause that  company to agree to  exchange  its
options to  acquire  such  company's  shares  for the Medix  options,  and to
cause  such  shares  to  be  registered  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  for  sale in the  public  securities  markets  by the  Executive.
Alternatively,  if Medix has been acquired by a private company,  Medix shall
cause such company to offer to purchase the  Executive's  options  granted by
Medix  upon the same  terms  as are  offered  to the  Medix  shareholders  in
connection  with such  company's  acquisition  of  control  of Medix.  If the
total  amount of the  change of  control  compensation  were to exceed  three
times the  Executive's  base salary (the average annual taxable  compensation
of the  Executive  for the five years  preceding the year in which the change
of control  occurs),  the Company and the  Executive  may agree to reduce the
lump sum  compensation  to be  received  by  Executive  in order to avoid the
imposition  of the golden  parachute tax as provided in the Tax Reform Act of
1984, as amended by the Tax Reform Act of 1986.

            In the  event  the  Executive  is  required  to hire  counsel  to
negotiate on his behalf in connection  with his  termination  or  resignation
from the Company upon the  occurrence of a Triggering  Event,  or in order to
enforce  his rights and the  obligations  of the  Company as provided in this
Paragraph,  the Company  shall  reimburse  to the  Executive  all  reasonable
attorney's  fees  which  may be  expended  by the  Executive  in  seeking  to
enforce  the terms  hereof.  Such  reimbursement  shall be paid every 30 days
after  the  Executive  provides  copies  of  invoices  from  the  Executive's
counsel to the Company.

15.   Indemnification.   The  Company  shall   indemnify  and  hold  harmless
Executive  to  the  fullest  extent  and  in  the  manner  permitted  by  the
provisions  of the Colorado  Business  Corporation  Act, as it may be amended
from  time to time.  To the  extent  that any of the  Company's  officers  or
directors  are  covered  by or  benefit  from  one  or  more  director's  and
officer's liability  insurance policies,  the Executive shall also be covered
by or benefit from such policy or policies.

16.   Arbitration.  Any  controversy,  dispute  or claim  arising  out of, or
relating to this Agreement and/or its interpretation  shall,  unless resolved
by  agreement of the parties,  be settled by binding  arbitration  in Denver,
Colorado  in   accordance   with  the  Rules  of  the  American   Arbitration
Association  for  employment  disputes  then  existing.   This  Agreement  to
arbitrate   shall  be   specifically   enforceable   under   the   prevailing
arbitration  laws  of the  State  of  Colorado.  The  award  rendered  by the
arbitrators  shall be final and  judgment  may be  entered  upon the award in
any court of the State of Colorado  having  jurisdiction  of the  matter.  If
any legal  proceeding  and/or  arbitration is brought to enforce or interpret
the terms of this Agreement,  each party shall bear its own attorney's  fees,
costs,  and  necessary   disbursements   in  such  legal  proceeding   and/or
arbitration except as otherwise provided herein.

17.   General Provisions.

      (a)   The  Executive's  rights and  obligations  under  this  Agreement
shall not be transferable by assignment or otherwise,  nor shall  Executive's
rights  be  subject  to  encumbrance  or  to  the  claims  of  the  Company's
creditors.  Nothing in this  Agreement  shall  prevent the  consolidation  of
the Company,  with or its merger into, any other corporation,  or the sale by
the  Company  of  all  or  substantially  all  of  its  property  or  assets.
However,  the rights of the Executive  hereunder shall be enforceable against
any successor to the Company,  and the rights of the Company  hereunder shall
benefit any successor to the Company.

            (b)   This  Agreement  and the rights of  Executive  with respect
to the  obligations  and benefits of  employment  recited in this  Agreement,
constitute  the entire  Agreement  between the  parties  hereto in respect of
the  employment  of the  Executive by the Company and  supersede  any and all
other  agreements  either oral or in writing  between the parties hereto with
respect to the employment of the Executive.

            (c)   The  provisions  of this  Agreement  shall be  regarded  as
divisible,  and if any of said  provisions  or any part there of are declared
invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent  jurisdiction,  the validity
and  enforceability  of the  remainder of such  provisions  or parts there of
and the applicability there of shall not be affected there by.

            (d)   This  Agreement may not be amended or modified  except by a
written instrument executed by Company and Executive.

            (e)   This  Agreement  and the rights and  obligations  hereunder
shall be governed by and construed in  accordance  with the laws of the State
of Colorado, excluding however, the provisions governing conflicts of laws.

18.   Construction.  Throughout  this  Agreement,  the singular shall include
the plural,  and the plural shall  include the  singular,  and the  masculine
and neuter shall include the feminine, wherever the context so requires.

19.   Text  to  Control.   The  headings  of  paragraphs   and  sections  are
included  solely for  convenience of reference.  If any conflict  between any
heading and the text of this Agreement exists, the text shall control.

20.   Authority.  The  officer  executing  this  Agreement  on  behalf of the
Company has been  empowered  and  directed to do so by the Board of Directors
of the Company.

      IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the Company and the Executive hereby execute this
Agreement,  as of the date first above  written,  with the full  intention to
be mutually bound by the terms hereof.

                              FOR THE COMPANY:
                              MEDIX RESOURCES, INC.


                        By:   <U>/s/John R. Prufeta</U>
                                 John R. Prufeta
                                 President and Chief Executive Officer


                              THE EXECUTIVE:


                        By:  <U>/s/Louis E. Hyman </U>
                                Louis E. Hyman




<PAGE>


<B>EXHIBIT A</B>


                              VESTING SCHEDULE FOR OPTIONS

Options covering 230,000 shares of the Company common stock shall be
granted to Executive upon the execution of this Employment Agreement, which
shall vest as follows: options covering 28,750 shares will vest immediately
(May 14, 2001) and options covering 28,750 shares shall vest on the same
date of each third month from the prior vesting date, until all options
have vested (which date shall be 21 months from the date of this
Agreement), so long as Executive is still employed by the Company on each
of those vesting dates.  However, in order to qualify for the exemption
provided by Rule 16b-3, in no case shall Executive transfer or dispose of
any option (other than by exercise) or the underlying common stock granted
hereunder for a period of six months plus one day from the date of this
Agreement.  The expiration date of all of the options granted hereunder
shall be the earlier of five years from the date of this Agreement or 90
days after the Executive leaves the employment of the Company.



</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>exhibit-10_25.htm
<DESCRIPTION>10.25
<TEXT>
<HTML><HEAD><TITLE>exhibit-10_25</TITLE></HEAD>
<BODY>
<PRE>
                                                                 <B>Exhibit 10.25
                                                                 =============



                              AGREEMENT OF LEASE

                                    between

                           SLG Graybar Sublease LLC

                                   Landlord

                                      and

                              Medix Resources, Inc.

                                    Tenant

                         Dated as of January 17, 2002


                                 Suite 1830-32
                              420 Lexington Avenue
                               New York, New York</B>



<PAGE>



                              <B>TABLE OF CONTENTS
                              -----------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

ARTICLE 1   DEMISE; PREMISES AND PURPOSE

ARTICLE 2   TERM

ARTICLE 3   RENT AND ADDITIONAL RENT

ARTICLE 4   ASSIGNMENT/SUBLETTING

ARTICLE 5   DEFAULT

ARTICLE 6   RELETTING, ETC

ARTICLE 7   LANDLORD MAY CURE DEFAULTS

ARTICLE 8   ALTERATIONS

ARTICLE 9   LIENS

ARTICLE 10  REPAIRS

ARTICLE 11  FIRE OR OTHER CASUALTY

ARTICLE 12  END OF TERM

ARTICLE 13  SUBORDINATION AND ESTOPPEL, ETC

ARTICLE 14  CONDEMNATION

ARTICLE 15  REQUIREMENTS OF LAW

ARTICLE 16  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY

ARTICLE 17  POSSESSION

ARTICLE 18  QUIET ENJOYMENT

ARTICLE 19  RIGHT OF ENTRY

ARTICLE 20  INDEMNITY

ARTICLE 21  LANDLORD'S LIABILITY, ETC

ARTICLE 22  CONDITION OF PREMISES

ARTICLE 23  CLEANING

ARTICLE 24  JURY WAIVER

ARTICLE 25  NO WAIVER, ETC

ARTICLE 26  OCCUPANCY AND USE BY TENANT

ARTICLE 27  NOTICES

ARTICLE 28  WATER

ARTICLE 29  SPRINKLER SYSTEM

ARTICLE 30  HEAT, ELEVATOR, ETC

ARTICLE 31  SECURITY DEPOSIT

ARTICLE 32  TAX ESCALATION

ARTICLE 33  RENT CONTROL

ARTICLE 34  SUPPLIES

ARTICLE 35  AIR CONDITIONING

ARTICLE 36  SHORING

ARTICLE 37  EFFECT OF CONVEYANCE, ETC

ARTICLE 38  RIGHTS OF SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.

ARTICLE 39  CAPTIONS

ARTICLE 40  BROKERS

ARTICLE 41  ELECTRICITY

ARTICLE 42  LEASE SUBMISSION

ARTICLE 43  INSURANCE

ARTICLE 44  SIGNAGE

ARTICLE 45  RIGHT TO RELOCATE

ARTICLE 46  FUTURE CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION

ARTICLE 47  MISCELLANEOUS

ARTICLE 48  COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

ARTICLE 49  EXTENSION OPTION

ARTICLE 50  RULES AND REGULATIONS





                             INDEX OF DEFINED TERMS

TERM

Additional Rent
Alterations
Base Tax Year
Brokers
Building
Building Cleaning Contractor
Building Project
Commencement Date
Comparative Year
Cooling Season
Declaration
Delivery Personnel
Designated Agent
ERIF
excess electricity
Existing HVAC Equipment
Expiration Date
Extension Right
Extension Term
Extension Term Comm. Date
Fixed Annual Rent
FMRV
HVAC System
Independent Broker
Landlord's Electrical Consultant
Landlord's Relocation Work.
Landlord's Restoration Work
Landlord's Broker
Landlord's Broker's Letter
Lease
Leaseback Area
Midtown
Ordinary Business Hours
Ordinary Equipment
Premises
Real Estate Taxes
Recapture Date
Relocation Effective Date
Relocation Notice
Relocation Space
Rent
Security
Supplemental Systems
Tenant Cleaning Services
Tenant's Recapture Offer
Tenant's Share
Tenant's Broker
Tenant's Broker's Letter
Term</B>



            <B>LEASE</B>  (this  "Lease")  made as of the  17th day of  January  2002
between  SLG  Graybar  Sublease,  LLC, a New York  limited  liability  company
having an office c/o SL Green  Realty  Corp.,  at 420  Lexington  Avenue,  New
York,  New York,  10170,  hereinafter  referred  to as  "Landlord",  and Medix
Resources,  Inc.,  a Colorado  corporation  having an office at 420  Lexington
Avenue, New York, New York, 10170, hereinafter referred to as "Tenant".


                              <B>W I T N E S S E T H
                              - - - - - - - - - -</B>

            Landlord and Tenant,  in  consideration  of the mutual  agreements
herein  contained and other good and valuable  consideration,  the receipt and
sufficiency  of which is hereby  acknowledged,  hereby  covenant  and agree as
follows:


                                   <B>ARTICLE 1</B>

                         <B><U>DEMISE; PREMISES AND PURPOSE</U></B>

            1.01  Landlord  hereby  leases and  demises to Tenant,  and Tenant
hereby hires and takes from Landlord,  those certain  Premises  located on and
comprising a rentable  portion of the  eighteenth  (18th) floor  designated as
Room  1830-32,  approximately  as indicated by hatch marks on the plan annexed
hereto and made a part hereof as "Exhibit A" (the  "Premises") in the building
known as and  located  at 420  Lexington  Avenue,  New  York,  New  York  (the
"Building") subject to the provisions of this Lease.

            1.02  The Premises  shall be used and occupied for  executive  and
general  office use consistent  with that found in Class "A" high-rise  office
buildings located in midtown Manhattan only and for no other purpose.

            1.03  Neither the Premises, nor the halls,  corridors,  stairways,
elevators or any other portion of the Building  shall be used by the Tenant or
the  Tenant's  servants,   employees,   licensees,  invitees  or  visitors  in
connection  with the  aforesaid  permitted use or otherwise so as to cause any
congestion  of the  public  portions  of  the  Building  or the  entranceways,
sidewalks or roadways  adjoining  the  Building  whether by trucking or by the
congregating  or  loitering   thereon  of  the  Tenant  and/or  the  servants,
employees, licensees, invitees or visitors of the Tenant.

            1.04  Tenant shall not permit  messengers,  delivery  personnel or
other  individuals  providing such services to Tenant  ("Delivery  Personnel")
to: (i) assemble,  congregate or to form a line outside of the Premises or the
Building or otherwise  impede the flow of  pedestrian  traffic  outside of the
Premises or  Building  or (ii) park or  otherwise  leave  bicycles,  wagons or
other  delivery  carts  outside  of the  Premises  or the  Building  except in
locations  outside of the Building  designated by Landlord from  time-to-time.
Tenant shall require all Delivery  Personnel to comply with rules  promulgated
by Landlord from time-to-time regarding the use of outside messenger services.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 2</B>

                                     <B><U>TERM</U></B>

            2.01  The  Premises are leased for a term of  approximately  three
(3) years (the "Term") which shall  commence on the earlier of (x) February 1,
2002 or (y) the date upon  which  Landlord's  Work  (hereinafter  defined)  is
substantially  completed (the  "Commencement  Date") and shall end on the 31st
day of January,  2005 (the  "Expiration  Date") or on such  earlier  date upon
which the Term shall expire, be canceled or terminated  pursuant to any of the
conditions or covenants of this Lease or pursuant to law.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 3</B>

                           <B><U>RENT AND ADDITIONAL RENT</U></B>

            3.01  Tenant shall pay fixed annual rent without  electricity (the
"Fixed Annual Rent") at the rates provided for in the schedule  annexed hereto
and made a part  hereof  as  "Exhibit  B" in  equal  monthly  installments  in
advance on the first (1st) day of each calendar month during the Term,  except
that the first (1st)  monthly  installment  of Fixed Annual Rent shall be paid
by Tenant upon its  execution of this Lease.  All sums other than Fixed Annual
Rent payable  hereunder  shall be deemed to be "Additional  Rent" and shall be
payable  on demand,  unless  other  payment  dates are  hereinafter  provided.
Tenant shall pay all Fixed Annual Rent and  Additional  Rent due  hereunder at
the office of Landlord or such other place as Landlord may designate,  payable
in United States legal tender,  by cash, or by good and sufficient check drawn
on a New York City bank which is a member of the New York Clearing  House or a
successor thereto, and without any set off or deduction  whatsoever.  The term
"Rent" as used in this  Lease  shall  mean Fixed  Annual  Rent and  Additional
Rent.  Landlord may apply  payments made by Tenant  towards the payment of any
item  of  Fixed  Annual  Rent  and/or   Additional   Rent  payable   hereunder
notwithstanding  any  designation  by Tenant as to the items against which any
such payment should be credited.

            3.02  Subject to the provisions  hereof,  if and so long as Tenant
is not in default  under this Lease,  the first (1st) monthly  installment  of
Fixed  Annual Rent  (without  electricity)  accruing  under the Lease shall be
abated  by the  sum  of  $23,613.75.  Anything  contained  hereinabove  to the
contrary notwithstanding,  if Tenant at any time during the term of the Lease,
breaches any material covenant,  condition or provision of the Lease and fails
to cure such breach within any applicable grace period,  and provided that the
Lease is terminated by Landlord  because of such  material  default,  then, in
addition  to all other  damages  and  remedies  herein  provided  and to which
Landlord may be  otherwise  entitled,  Landlord  shall also be entitled to the
repayment  in full of all Rent which has  theretofore  been  abated  under the
provisions  of this  Lease,  which  repayment  Tenant  shall make upon  demand
therefore;  provided,  however, that amount to be repaid to Landlord under the
provisions of this Article shall be  determined by  multiplying  the amount of
said abatement by a fraction,  the denominator of which is number of months in
the term of the  Lease,  and the  numerator  of which is the number of months,
and  portions  thereof,  remaining  in the term of this Lease  following  such
breach.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 4</B>

                            <B><U>ASSIGNMENT/SUBLETTING</U></B>

            4.01  Neither  Tenant  nor  Tenant's  legal   representatives   or
successors  in  interest  by  operation  of law or  otherwise,  shall  assign,
mortgage or otherwise  encumber this Lease, or sublet or permit all or part of
the  Premises  to be used by  others,  without  the prior  written  consent of
Landlord  in each  instance.  The  transfer  of a  majority  of the issued and
outstanding  capital stock of any corporate tenant  (excluding,  however,  the
transfer of stock effected  through the  "over-the-counter  market" or through
any  recognized  stock  exchange)  or a majority of the total  interest in any
partnership tenant, however accomplished,  and whether in a single transaction
or in a series of related or unrelated transactions,  the conversion Tenant to
either a limited liability  company or a limited liability  partnership or the
merger or consolidation of a corporate  tenant,  shall be deemed an assignment
of this  Lease or of such  sublease,  consent  to which  shall be  granted  or
withheld by Landlord in accordance  with the  provisions  of this Article.  If
this Lease is assigned,  or if the Premises or any part thereof is underlet or
occupied by anybody other than Tenant,  Landlord may, after default by Tenant,
collect rent from the  assignee,  undertenant  or occupant,  and apply the net
amount   collected   to  the  rent  herein   reserved,   but  no   assignment,
underletting,  occupancy  or  collection  shall  be  deemed  a  waiver  of the
provisions hereof, the acceptance of the assignee,  undertenant or occupant as
tenant,  or a release  of Tenant  from the  further  performance  by Tenant of
covenants on the part of Tenant herein  contained.  The consent by Landlord to
an  assignment  or  underletting  shall not in any way be construed to relieve
Tenant  from  obtaining  the  express  consent in writing of  Landlord  to any
further   assignment  or  underletting.   In  no  event  shall  any  permitted
sublessee  assign or  encumber  its  sublease  or  further  sublet  all or any
portion of its sublet  space,  or otherwise  suffer or permit the sublet space
or any part  thereof  to be used or  occupied  by others,  without  Landlord's
prior  written  consent  in  each  instance.  A  modification,   amendment  or
extension  of a sublease  shall be deemed a sublease.  The listing of the name
of a party or  entity  other  than that of  Tenant  on the  Building  or floor
directory  or on or  adjacent  to the  entrance  door  to the  Premises  shall
neither  grant such party or entity any right or  interest in this Lease or in
the Premises nor constitute  Landlord's  consent to any assignment or sublease
to, or  occupancy  of the  Premises  by, such party or entity.  If any lien is
filed  against the  Premises or the Building of which the same form a part for
brokerage  services  claimed to have been  performed  for Tenant in connection
with any such assignment or sublease,  whether or not actually performed,  the
same shall be  discharged  within  twenty  (20) days  thereafter,  at Tenant's
expense,  by filing the bond  required  by law, or  otherwise,  and paying any
other necessary  sums, and Tenant agrees to indemnify  Landlord and its agents
and hold  them  harmless  from  and  against  any and all  claims,  losses  or
liability resulting from such lien for brokerage services rendered.

            4.02  If Tenant  desires to assign  this Lease or to sublet all or
any portion of the  Premises,  it shall first  submit in writing to Landlord a
notice (the  "Tenant's  Recapture  Offer") which states,  with respect to each
such  prospective  assignment  or  subletting,  all of the relevant  terms and
conditions  upon which  Tenant is  willing to assign  this Lease or sublet the
Premises,  or any portion  thereof,  whichever  may be  applicable,  and which
shall be deemed an offer under the terms and conditions  contained in Tenant's
Recapture Offer (i) with respect to a prospective  assignment,  to assign this
Lease to  Landlord  without  any  payment  of  moneys  or other  consideration
therefor,  or, (ii) with  respect to a  prospective  subletting,  to sublet to
Landlord the portion of the Premises involved  ("Leaseback  Area") on the same
terms,  covenants and conditions  (including provisions relating to escalation
rents) as are contained  therein and as are  allocable  and  applicable to the
portion of the Premises to be covered by such subletting.  Tenant's  Recapture
Offer shall  specify the date when the Leaseback  Area will be made  available
to Landlord,  which date shall be in no event earlier than sixty (60) days nor
later than one hundred  eighty (180) days following the acceptance of Tenant's
Recapture Offer (the "Recapture  Date").  If an offer of sublease is made, and
if the  proposed  sublease  will  result  in all or  substantially  all of the
Premises  being  sublet for the  balance or  substantially  the balance of the
Term,  then Landlord  shall have the option to extend the term of its proposed
sublease  for the  balance  of the  term  of  this  Lease  less  one (1)  day.
Landlord  shall  have a period of ninety  (90) days from the  receipt  of such
Tenant's  Recapture Offer to either accept or reject Tenant's  Recapture Offer
or to terminate this Lease.

            4.03. If Landlord  exercises  its option to terminate  this Lease,
then (i) the term of this Lease shall end at the  election of Landlord  either
(x) if  known,  on the date  that  such  assignment  or  sublet  was to become
effective or commence,  as the case may be, or (y) on the  Recapture  Date and
(ii) Tenant  shall  surrender to Landlord and vacate the Premises on or before
such date in the same  condition as is otherwise  required upon the expiration
of this Lease by its terms,  (iii) the Rent and Additional  Rent due hereunder
shall be paid and  apportioned  to such date,  and (iv) Landlord shall be free
to lease the Premises  (or any portion  thereof) to any  individual  or entity
including, without limitation, Tenant's proposed assignee or subtenant.

            4.04. If Landlord shall accept Tenant's  Recapture  Offer,  Tenant
shall then execute and deliver to Landlord,  or to anyone  designated or named
by Landlord,  an assignment or sublease, as the case may be, in either case in
a form reasonably satisfactory to Landlord's counsel.

                  If a sublease is so made it shall expressly:

            (i)   permit  Landlord  to make  further  subleases  of all or any
part of the  Leaseback  Area and (at no cost or expense to Tenant) to make and
authorize any and all changes, alterations,  installations and improvements in
such space as necessary;

            (ii)  provide  that  Tenant  will at all times  permit  reasonably
appropriate means of ingress to and egress from the Leaseback Area;

            (iii) negate  any  intention  that the estate  created  under such
sublease be merged with any other estate held by either of the parties;

            (iv)  provide that Landlord  shall accept the  Leaseback  Area "as
is" except that  Landlord,  at Tenant's  expense,  shall perform all such work
and make all such  alterations  as may be required  physically to separate the
Leaseback  Area  from the  remainder  of the  Premises  and to  permit  lawful
occupancy,  it being  intended that Tenant shall have no other cost or expense
in connection with the subletting of the Leaseback Area;

            (v)   provide that at the  expiration of the term of such sublease
Tenant will accept the Leaseback Area in its then existing condition,  subject
to the  obligations  of  Landlord  to  make  such  repairs  thereto  as may be
necessary  to  preserve  the  Leaseback  Area in  good  order  and  condition,
ordinary wear and tear excepted.

            4.05  Landlord shall  indemnify and save Tenant  harmless from all
obligations  under this Lease as to the  Leaseback  Area  during the period of
time it is so sublet,  except for Fixed Annual Rent and  Additional  Rent,  if
any,  due  under  the  within  Lease,  which  are in  excess  of the rents and
additional   sums  due  under  such   sublease.   Subject  to  the  foregoing,
performance  by Landlord,  or its designee,  under a sublease of the Leaseback
Area shall be deemed  performance  by Tenant of any similar  obligation  under
this Lease and any default  under any such  sublease  shall not give rise to a
default under a similar  obligation  contained in this Lease, nor shall Tenant
be  liable  for any  default  under  this  Lease or  deemed  to be in  default
hereunder if such default is  occasioned by or arises from any act or omission
of the tenant under such  sublease or is  occasioned by or arises from any act
or omission of any occupant holding under or pursuant to any such sublease.

            4.06  If  Tenant  requests   Landlord's   consent  to  a  specific
assignment or subletting,  it shall submit in writing to Landlord (i) the name
and  address of the  proposed  assignee  or  sublessee,  (ii) a duly  executed
counterpart  of the  proposed  agreement  of  assignment  or  sublease,  (iii)
reasonably  satisfactory  information  as to the nature and  character  of the
business of the  proposed  assignee or  sublessee  and as to the nature of its
proposed  use of the  space,  and (iv)  banking,  financial  or  other  credit
information   relating  to  the  proposed  assignee  or  sublessee  reasonably
sufficient to enable  Landlord to determine the financial  responsibility  and
character of the proposed assignee or sublessee.

            4.07. If  Landlord  shall  not have  accepted  Tenant's  Recapture
Offer and Landlord shall not have  terminated  this Lease,  as provided for in
Section 4.02 hereof,  then  Landlord will not  unreasonably  withhold or delay
its consent to Tenant's  request for consent to such  specific  assignment  or
subletting  for the use  permitted  under this Lease,  provided  that any such
assignment or subletting  shall (i) have economic terms that shall not vary by
more than five (5%)  percent  from the  economic  terms  contained in Tenant's
Recapture  Offer,  (ii) be for a term  expiring not more than three (3) months
before or beyond the term designated in Tenant's  Recapture Offer and upon all
of the material  terms and conditions  set forth in Tenant's  Recapture  Offer
(iii) comply with all other applicable  provisions of this Article (and in the
event that the economic  terms and/or the term of such proposed  subletting or
assignment,  as the case may be, vary from the economic  terms and/or the term
contained in Tenant's  Recapture  Offer beyond the  variances set forth above,
then  Tenant's  request  for  consent  shall be  deemed  to  constitute  a new
Tenant's Recapture Offer to Landlord under the terms and conditions  contained
in the proposed  sublease or  assignment,  as the case may be, with respect to
which  all of the  provisions  of this  Article  4  shall  again  apply),  and
provided further that:

            (i)   The Premises shall not,  without  Landlord's  prior consent,
have  been  listed  or  otherwise   publicly   advertised  for  assignment  or
subletting  at a rental  rate lower than the then  prevailing  rental rate for
other space in the Building;

            (ii)  The proposed  assignee or  subtenant  shall have a financial
standing, be of a character,  be engaged in a business, and propose to use the
Premises,  in a manner  consistent  with the permitted use and in keeping with
the standards of the Building;

            (iii) The  proposed  assignee  or  subtenant  shall  not then be a
tenant,  subtenant,  assignee or occupant  of any space in the  Building,  nor
shall the  proposed  assignee or subtenant be a person or entity who has dealt
with Landlord or Landlord's  agent (directly or through a broker) with respect
to space in the  Building  during  the six (6)  months  immediately  preceding
Tenant's request for Landlord's consent;

            (iv)  The  character  of  the  business  to be  conducted  in  the
Premises  by the  proposed  assignee  or  subtenant  shall  not be  likely  to
increase  operating  expenses  or the burden on  existing  cleaning  services,
elevators or other services and/or systems of the Building;

            (v)   In case of a subletting,  the  subtenant  shall be expressly
subject to all of the  obligations  of Tenant under this Lease and the further
condition  and   restriction   that  such  sublease  shall  not  be  assigned,
encumbered  or otherwise  transferred  or the Premises  further  sublet by the
subtenant in whole or in part,  or any part  thereof  suffered or permitted by
the  subtenant  to be used or  occupied by others,  without the prior  written
consent of Landlord in each instance;

            (vi)  No  subletting  shall end later  than one (1) day before the
Expiration  Date nor shall any  subletting  be for a term of less than one (1)
year unless it commences less than one (1) year before the Expiration Date;

            (vii) At no time  shall  there be more than  three (3)  occupants,
including Tenant, in the Premises;

            (viii)      Tenant  shall  reimburse  Landlord  on demand  for any
reasonable costs,  including  attorneys' fees and  disbursements,  that may be
incurred by Landlord in connection with said assignment or sublease;

            (ix)  The  character  of  the  business  to be  conducted  in  the
Premises  by  the  proposed  assignee  or  subtenant  shall  not  require  any
alterations, installations,  improvements, additions or other physical changes
to be performed,  or made to, any portion of the Building or the Real Property
other than the Premises; and

            (x)   The proposed  assignee or subtenant  shall not be any entity
which is entitled to diplomatic or sovereign  immunity or which is not subject
to service of process in the State of New York or to the  jurisdiction  of the
courts  of the State of New York and the  United  States  located  in New York
County.

            4.08  Any consent of Landlord  under this Article shall be subject
to the terms of this  Article and  conditioned  upon there being no default by
Tenant,  beyond  any grace  period,  under  any of the  terms,  covenants  and
conditions  of this  Lease at the time  that  Landlord's  consent  to any such
subletting or assignment is requested and on the date of the  commencement  of
the  term of any  proposed  sublease  or the  effective  date of any  proposed
assignment.  Tenant  acknowledges  and agrees that no assignment or subletting
shall be effective  unless and until  Tenant,  upon  receiving  any  necessary
Landlord's  written  consent  (and  unless  it was  theretofore  delivered  to
Landlord)  causes a duly  executed  copy of the sublease or  assignment  to be
delivered to Landlord within ten (10) days after execution  thereof.  Any such
sublease  shall  provide that the sublessee  shall comply with all  applicable
terms and  conditions  of this Lease to be performed by the Tenant  hereunder.
Any such  assignment of this Lease shall contain an assumption by the assignee
of all of the terms,  covenants  and  conditions of this Lease to be performed
by the Tenant.  In addition to the foregoing,  as a condition to such consent,
in the event that  either the net worth or ratio of current  assets to current
liabilities  (exclusive  of good will) of Tenant as of the  effective  date of
the  sublease  or  assignment  is less than the net worth or ratio of  current
assets to  current  liabilities  (exclusive  of good will) of Tenant as of the
Commencement Date,  Landlord may require Tenant to deposit additional security
in an amount  equal to fifty  (50%)  percent of the  security  then on deposit
with Landlord  hereunder in order to secure  performance of the obligations of
Tenant accruing from and after the commencement  date of any proposed sublease
or the effective date of any proposed assignment.

            4.09  A.    Anything   hereinabove   contained   to  the  contrary
notwithstanding,  the  "recapture"  provisions of this Article shall not apply
to, and  Landlord's  consent  shall not be required for, an assignment of this
Lease,  or  sublease  of all or part of the  Premises  for the uses  permitted
hereunder,  to a Related  Entity,  provided  that (i)  Landlord is given prior
notice  thereof and reasonably  satisfactory  proof that the  requirements  of
this  Lease  have  been met and  Tenant  agrees to  remain  primarily  liable,
jointly and severally,  with any transferee or assignee,  for the  obligations
of Tenant  under  this  Lease,  (ii) any such  transaction  complies  with the
provisions of this Article  (other than those  related to  Landlord's  consent
and  recapture  rights),  and  (iii) in  Landlord's  reasonable  judgment  the
proposed  assignee or subtenant is engaged in a business and the Premises,  or
the relevant  part  thereof,  will be used in a manner which (x) is in keeping
with the  standards  of the  Building  and (y) would not  adversely  affect or
increase Landlord's cost in the operation of the Building.

                  B.    For purposes of this Article:

                  (i)  a  "Related  Entity"  shall  mean  (x)  a  wholly-owned
subsidiary  of  Tenant  or any  corporation  or entity  which  controls  or is
controlled by Tenant or is under common  control with Tenant or (y) any entity
(i) to which  substantially  all the assets of Tenant are  transferred or (ii)
into which Tenant may be merged or consolidated,  provided that in either such
case both the net worth and ratio of  current  assets to  current  liabilities
(exclusive  of good will) of such  transferee or of the resulting or surviving
corporation or other business entity,  as the case may be, as certified by the
certified public  accountants of such transferee or the resulting or surviving
business entity in accordance with generally accepted  accounting  principles,
consistently  applied,  is not less  than  Tenant's  net  worth  and  ratio of
current  assets  to  current  liabilities  (exclusive  of  good  will),  as so
certified,  as of (a) the Commencement  Date or (b) the day immediately  prior
to such transaction, whichever is greater; and

            (ii) the term  "control"  shall mean, in the case of a corporation
or other entity,  ownership or voting control,  directly or indirectly,  of at
least  fifty  (50%)  percent of all of the  general or other  partnership  (or
similar) interests therein.

            4.10  If  Landlord  shall  not have  accepted  Tenant's  Recapture
Offer  hereunder  and Landlord has not elected to  terminate  this Lease,  and
Tenant effects any assignment or subletting,  then Tenant thereafter shall pay
to  Landlord  a sum equal to (a) any rent or other  consideration  payable  to
Tenant  by any  subtenant  which is in  excess  of the rent  allocable  to the
subleased  space  which is then being paid by Tenant to  Landlord  pursuant to
the terms  hereof,  and (b) any other  profit or gain  realized by Tenant from
any such  subletting  or  assignment.  In computing  such excess amount and/or
profit or gain,  any  advertising,  legal  expenses and brokerage  commissions
reasonably   incurred  by  Tenant  in  connection   with  such  assignment  or
subleasing  shall be deducted on an amortized  basis (i.e.,  in equal  monthly
installments) over the balance of the term of the sublease,  in the event of a
subletting, or this Lease, in the event of an assignment.

            4.11. In no event  shall  Tenant be  entitled  to make,  nor shall
Tenant make, any claim,  and Tenant hereby waives any claim, for money damages
(nor shall Tenant claim any money damages by way of set-off,  counterclaim  or
defense)  based  upon any claim or  assertion  by  Tenant  that  Landlord  has
unreasonably  withheld  or  unreasonably  delayed its consent or approval to a
proposed  assignment or  subletting as provided for in this Article.  Tenant's
sole remedy shall be an action or  proceeding  to enforce any such  provision,
or for specific performance, injunction or declaratory judgment.



                                   <B>ARTICLE 5</B>

                                   <B><U>DEFAULT</U></B>

            5.01  Landlord may terminate  this Lease on ten (10) days' notice:
(a) if Rent or  Additional  Rent is not  paid  within  seven  (7)  days  after
written  notice from  Landlord;  or (b) if Tenant  shall have failed to cure a
default in the  performance  of any covenant of this Lease (except the payment
of Rent), or any rule or regulation  hereinafter set forth, within twenty (20)
days after  written  notice  thereof from  Landlord,  or if default  cannot be
completely  cured in such time,  if Tenant shall not promptly  proceed to cure
such  default  within said twenty (20) days,  or shall not complete the curing
of such default with due  diligence;  or (c) when and to the extent  permitted
by law, if a petition in bankruptcy  shall be filed by or against Tenant or if
Tenant  shall  make a general  assignment  for the  benefit of  creditors,  or
receive  the  benefit of any  insolvency  or  reorganization  act; or (d) if a
receiver or trustee is  appointed  for any portion of  Tenant's  property  and
such  appointment  is  not  vacated  within  twenty  (20)  days;  or (e) if an
execution or  attachment  shall be issued  under which the  Premises  shall be
taken or occupied or  attempted  to be taken or occupied by anyone  other than
Tenant;  or (f) if Tenant  shall  default  beyond any grace  period  under any
other lease  between  Tenant and Landlord.  At the  expiration of the ten (10)
day notice period,  this Lease and any rights of renewal or extension  thereof
shall  terminate as completely as if that were the date  originally  fixed for
the  expiration  of the Term of this Lease,  but Tenant shall remain liable as
hereinafter provided.

            5.02  In the event  that  Tenant is in  arrears  for Fixed  Annual
Rent or any item of  Additional  Rent,  Tenant  waives its right,  if any,  to
designate the items  against which  payments made by Tenant are to be credited
and  Landlord  may apply  any  payments  made by  Tenant  to any  items  which
Landlord in its sole  discretion may elect  irrespective of any designation by
Tenant as to the items against which any such payment should be credited.

            5.03  Tenant  shall  not seek to  remove  and/or  consolidate  any
summary  proceeding brought by Landlord with any action commenced by Tenant in
connection with this Lease or Tenant's use and/or occupancy of the Premises.

            5.04  In  the  event  of  a  default  by  Landlord  hereunder,  no
property or assets of Landlord,  or any  principals,  shareholders,  officers,
directors,  partners or members of Landlord, whether disclosed or undisclosed,
other than the  Building in which the  Premises  are located and the land upon
which the Building is situated,  shall be subject to levy,  execution or other
enforcement  procedure for the satisfaction of Tenant's remedies under or with
respect to this Lease,  the  relationship of Landlord and Tenant  hereunder or
Tenant's use and occupancy of the Premises.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 6</B>

                               <B><U>RELETTING, ETC.</U></B>

            6.01  If Landlord  shall  re-enter  the Premises on the default of
Tenant,  by summary  proceedings  or  otherwise:  (a)  Landlord may re-let the
Premises or any part thereof,  as Tenant's agent, in the name of Landlord,  or
otherwise,  for a term  shorter or longer than the balance of the term of this
Lease,  and may grant  concessions or free rent; (b) Tenant shall pay Landlord
any  deficiency  between  the rent hereby  reserved  and the net amount of any
rents  collected by Landlord  for the  remaining  term of this Lease,  through
such re-letting.  Such deficiency shall become due and payable monthly,  as it
is determined.  Landlord shall have no obligation to re-let the Premises,  and
its  failure or refusal  to do so, or failure to collect  rent on  re-letting,
shall not affect  Tenant's  liability  hereunder.  In computing the net amount
of rents collected  through such re-letting,  Landlord may deduct all expenses
incurred in obtaining  possession or re-letting the Premises,  including legal
expenses  and fees,  reasonable  brokerage  fees,  the cost of  restoring  the
Premises  to good  order,  and the  reasonable  cost  of all  alterations  and
decorations  deemed  necessary by Landlord to effect  re-letting.  In no event
shall  Tenant be entitled to a credit or repayment  for rerental  income which
exceeds the sums  payable by Tenant  hereunder  or which covers a period after
the  original  term of this  Lease;  (c) Tenant  hereby  expressly  waives any
right of  redemption  granted by any  present or future  law.  "Re-enter"  and
"re-entry" as used in this Lease are not restricted to their  technical  legal
meaning.  In  the  event  of a  breach  or  threatened  breach  of  any of the
covenants or provisions  hereof,  Landlord shall have the right of injunction.
Mention herein of any particular  remedy shall not preclude  Landlord from any
other available remedy; (d) Landlord shall recover as liquidated  damages,  in
addition to accrued  rent and other  charges,  if  Landlord's  re-entry is the
result of Tenant's bankruptcy,  insolvency, or reorganization, the full rental
for the maximum period  allowed by any act relating to bankruptcy,  insolvency
or reorganization.

            6.02  If Landlord  re-enters  the  Premises  for any cause,  or if
Tenant  abandons the  Premises,  or after the  expiration  of the term of this
Lease,  any  property  left in the  Premises by Tenant shall be deemed to have
been  abandoned  by  Tenant,  and  Landlord  shall have the right to retain or
dispose of such  property  in any manner  without  any  obligation  to account
therefor to Tenant.  If Tenant  shall at any time  default  hereunder,  and if
Landlord shall institute an action or summary  proceeding against Tenant based
upon such default,  then Tenant will reimburse Landlord for the legal expenses
and fees thereby incurred by Landlord.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 7</B>

                          <B><U>LANDLORD MAY CURE DEFAULTS</U></B>

            7.01  If Tenant  shall  default  in  performing  any  covenant  or
condition  of this  Lease,  Landlord  may  perform the same for the account of
Tenant, and if Landlord,  in connection  therewith,  or in connection with any
default by Tenant,  makes any  expenditures  or incurs any obligations for the
payment of money,  including  but not limited to reasonable  attorney's  fees,
such sums so paid or  obligations  incurred  shall be deemed to be  Additional
Rent  hereunder,  and shall be paid by Tenant to Landlord within five (5) days
of  rendition of any bill or statement  therefor,  and if Tenant's  lease term
shall  have  expired  at the  time  of the  making  of  such  expenditures  or
incurring of such  obligations,  such sums shall be recoverable by Landlord as
damages.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 8</B>

                                 <B><U>ALTERATIONS</U></B>

            8.01  Tenant shall make no alteration,  addition or improvement in
the Premises,  without the prior written consent of Landlord, and then only by
contractors  or  mechanics  and  in  such  manner  and  time,  and  with  such
materials,   as  approved  by   Landlord.   All   alterations,   additions  or
improvements to the Premises,  including  air-conditioning  equipment and duct
work,  except movable office  furniture and trade  equipment  installed at the
expense of Tenant, shall, unless Landlord elects otherwise in writing,  become
the property of Landlord,  and shall be surrendered with the Premises,  at the
expiration  or  sooner  termination  of the term of this  Lease.  Except  with
respect to Tenant's Initial  Alteration Work (hereinafter  defined),  any such
alterations,  additions and improvements  which Landlord shall designate shall
be removed by Tenant and any damage repaired,  at Tenant's  expense,  prior to
the  expiration of this Lease.  Landlord  shall make such  designation  at the
time  that  consent  to such  alteration,  addition  or  improvement  is given
provided  that Tenant  attaches,  as part of its request for such  consent,  a
separate written notice  specifically  referencing this provision and advising
Landlord  that  Landlord is required to make such  designation  as part of any
such consent given by Landlord hereunder.


            8.02  Anything   hereinabove  to  the  contrary   notwithstanding,
Landlord will not unreasonably  withhold or delay approval of written requests
of  Tenant  to  make  nonstructural   interior   alterations,   additions  and
improvements  (herein referred to as "Alterations") in the Premises,  provided
that  such  Alterations  do  not  affect  utility  services  or  plumbing  and
electrical  lines or other  systems of the  Building and do not affect and are
not visible  from any portion of the  Building  outside of the  Premises.  All
Alterations shall be performed in accordance with the following conditions:

            (i)   Prior to the  commencement of any  Alterations  costing more
than $20,000.00 or requiring a building  permit,  Tenant shall first submit to
Landlord  for  its  approval  detailed   dimensioned   coordinated  plans  and
specifications,   including  layout,  architectural,  mechanical,  electrical,
plumbing  and  structural  drawings  for each  proposed  Alteration.  Landlord
shall be given, in writing, a good description of all other Alterations.

            (ii)  All  Alterations  in and to the Premises  shall be performed
in a good and workmanlike  manner and in accordance with the Building's  rules
and regulations  governing  Tenant  Alterations.  Prior to the commencement of
any such Alterations,  Tenant shall, at its sole cost and expense,  obtain and
exhibit to Landlord any  governmental  permit required in connection with such
Alterations.  In order to compensate  Landlord for its general  conditions and
the costs  incurred by Landlord in  connection  with Tenant's  performance  of
Alterations  in and/or to the Premises  (including,  without  limitation,  the
costs incurred by Landlord in connection with the  coordination of Alterations
which may affect  systems or  services  of the  Building  or  portions  of the
Building  outside of the  Premises),  Tenant shall pay to Landlord a fee equal
to five (5%) percent of the cost of such Alterations  (excluding (a) the costs
of decorations,  paint,  and wallpaper and (b) Alterations  performed by or on
behalf of Tenant in the  Premises  within the first one  hundred  fifty  (150)
days of the  Term in  order to  prepare  the  Premises  for  Tenant's  initial
occupancy  thereof).  Such fee  shall be paid by  Tenant  as  Additional  Rent
hereunder within ten (10) days following receipt of an invoice therefor.

            (iii) All  Alterations  shall be done in compliance with all other
applicable provisions of this Lease and with all applicable laws,  ordinances,
directions,   rules  and  regulations  of  governmental   authorities   having
jurisdiction,  including,  without limitation, the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990 and New York City  Local  Law No.  57/87 and  similar  present  or
future laws, and regulations  issued pursuant thereto,  and also New York City
Local Law No. 76 and similar  present or future laws, and  regulations  issued
pursuant  thereto,  on  abatement,  storage,  transportation  and  disposal of
asbestos and other  hazardous  materials,  which work,  if required,  shall be
effected at Tenant's sole cost and expense,  by  contractors  and  consultants
approved by Landlord and in strict  compliance  with the  aforesaid  rules and
regulations   and   with   Landlord's    rules   and   regulations    thereon.
Notwithstanding   the  foregoing,   Landlord  shall:   (a)  remove,   enclose,
encapsulate or otherwise  manage to the extent  required by applicable law any
deteriorated   asbestos   or   deteriorated    asbestos-containing    material
(collectively,  "Deteriorated  ACM") located  within the  Premises;  provided,
however,  that  notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  Lease  to  the
contrary,  Tenant shall remove, enclose,  encapsulate or otherwise manage such
Deteriorated  ACM as required by applicable  law to the extent that (i) Tenant
(x) disturbed such  Deteriorated ACM or caused such Deteriorated ACM to become
friable by the  performance  of any work or  Alterations in or to the Premises
or (y)  installed the same,  or (ii) such  Deteriorated  ACM consists of vinyl
asbestos tiles;  and (b) prior to the  Commencement  Date, cure any violations
of record with respect to the  alterations  and  improvements  existing within
Premises not caused by Tenant.

            (iv)  All work  shall be  performed  with union  labor  having the
proper jurisdictional qualifications.

            (v)   Tenant shall keep the  Building  and the  Premises  free and
clear of all liens for any work or material  claimed to have been furnished to
Tenant or to the Premises.

            (vi)  Prior  to the  commencement  of any  work by or for  Tenant,
Tenant shall furnish to Landlord certificates  evidencing the existence of the
following insurance:

                  (a)   Workmen's  compensation insurance covering all persons
employed for such work and with respect to whom death or bodily  injury claims
could be asserted against Landlord, Tenant or the Premises.

                  (b)   Broad form general  liability  insurance written on an
occurrence  basis  naming  Tenant as an insured  and naming  Landlord  and its
designees  as  additional  insureds,  with limits of not less than  $3,000,000
combined  single limit for  personal  injury in any one  occurrence,  and with
limits of not less than  $500,000 for property  damage (the  foregoing  limits
may be  revised  from  time to time by  Landlord  to  such  higher  limits  as
Landlord  from time to time  reasonably  requires).  Tenant,  at its sole cost
and expense,  shall cause all such insurance to be maintained at all time when
the work to be performed for or by Tenant is in progress.  All such  insurance
shall be  obtained  from a company  authorized  to do business in New York and
shall  provide  that it cannot be  canceled  without  thirty  (30) days  prior
written notice to Landlord. All polices, or certificates  therefor,  issued by
the insurer and bearing  notations  evidencing the payment of premiums,  shall
be delivered to  Landlord.  Blanket  coverage  shall be  acceptable,  provided
that  coverage  meeting  the  requirements  of this  paragraph  is assigned to
Tenant's location at the Premises.

            (vii) In granting  its  consent to any  Alteration,  Landlord  may
impose such  conditions  as to guarantee  of  completion  (including,  without
limitation,  requiring Tenant to post additional  security or a bond to insure
the completion of such  Alterations,  payment,  restoration or otherwise),  as
Landlord  may  reasonably  require,  in the event that either the net worth or
ratio of current  assets to current  liabilities  (exclusive  of good will) of
Tenant as of the date upon which such  consent is  requested  is less than the
net worth or ratio of current  assets to  current  liabilities  (exclusive  of
good will) of Tenant.

            (viii)      All work to be  performed by Tenant shall be done in a
manner which will not  interfere  with or disturb  other tenants and occupants
of the Building.

            (xi)  The  review  and/or   approval  by  Landlord,   its  agents,
consultants   and/or   contractors,   of  any   Alteration  or  of  plans  and
specifications  therefor and the coordination of such Alteration work with the
Building,  as described in part above, are solely for the benefit of Landlord,
and neither Landlord nor any of its agents,  consultants or contractors  shall
have  any  duty  toward  Tenant;  nor  shall  Landlord  or any of its  agents,
consultants  and/or  contractors be deemed to have made any  representation or
warranty  to  Tenant,  or have any  liability,  with  respect  to the  safety,
adequacy,  correctness,  efficiency or  compliance  with laws of any plans and
specifications, Alterations or any other matter relating thereto.

            (x)   Promptly   following  the  substantial   completion  of  any
Alterations requiring a building permit, Tenant shall submit to Landlord:  (a)
one (1) sepia  and one (1) copy on floppy  disk  (using a current  version  of
Autocad or such other  similar  software as is then commonly in use) of final,
"as-built"   plans  for  the  Premises   showing  all  such   Alterations  and
demonstrating   that  such   Alterations   were  performed   substantially  in
accordance  with plans and  specifications  first approved by Landlord and (b)
an itemization of Tenant's total construction  costs,  detailed by contractor,
subcontractors,  vendors and materialmen;  bills,  receipts,  lien waivers and
releases  from  all  contractors,  subcontractors,  vendors  and  materialmen;
architects' and Tenant's certification of completion,  payment and acceptance,
and all  governmental  approvals  and  confirmations  of  completion  for such
Alterations.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 9</B>

                                    <B><U>LIENS</U></B>

            9.01  Prior to  commencement  of its work in the Premises,  Tenant
shall  obtain and deliver to Landlord a written  letter of  authorization,  in
form satisfactory to Landlord's counsel,  signed by all architects,  engineers
and  designers to become  involved in such work,  which shall confirm that any
of  their   drawings  or  plans  are  to  be  removed  from  any  filing  with
governmental  authorities  on  request  of  Landlord,  in the event  that said
architect,  engineer or designer  thereafter  no longer is providing  services
with respect to the  Premises.  With respect to  contractors,  subcontractors,
materialmen  and laborers,  and architects,  engineers and designers,  for all
work or materials to be furnished to Tenant at the Premises,  Tenant agrees to
obtain and deliver to Landlord written and  unconditional  waiver of mechanics
liens upon the Premises or the  Building  after  payments to the  contractors,
etc.,   subject  to  any  then   applicable   provisions   of  the  Lien  Law.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  Tenant at its  expense  shall cause any lien
filed against the Premises or the Building,  for work or materials  claimed to
have been  furnished to Tenant,  to be discharged of record within twenty (20)
days after notice thereof.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 10</B>

                                   <B><U>REPAIRS</U></B>

            10.01 Tenant  shall  take  good  care  of  the  Premises  and  the
fixtures and  appurtenances  therein,  and shall make all repairs necessary to
keep them in good working order and condition,  including  structural  repairs
when those are  necessitated  by the act,  omission or negligence of Tenant or
its agents, employees,  invitees or contractors,  subject to the provisions of
Article 11 hereof.  During the term of this Lease,  Tenant may have the use of
any  air-conditioning   equipment  servicing  the  Premises,  subject  to  the
provisions  of Article 35 of this  Lease,  and shall  reimburse  Landlord,  in
accordance  with  Article 41 of this Lease,  for  electricity  consumed by the
equipment.  The  exterior  walls and  roofs of the  Building,  the  mechanical
rooms,  service closets,  shafts, areas above any hung ceiling and the windows
and the  portions  of all  window  sills  outside  same  are  not  part of the
Premises  demised by this Lease,  and Landlord  hereby  reserves all rights to
such  parts of the  Building.  Tenant  shall not paint,  alter,  drill into or
otherwise change the appearance of the windows including,  without limitation,
the sills, jambs, frames, sashes, and meeting rails.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 11</B>

                            <B><U>FIRE OR OTHER CASUALTY</U></B>

            11.01 Damage by fire or other  casualty to the Building and to the
core  and  shell  of the  Premises  (excluding  the  tenant  improvements  and
betterments and Tenant's  personal  property) shall be repaired at the expense
of Landlord  ("Landlord's  Restoration  Work"),  but without  prejudice to the
rights of subrogation,  if any, of Landlord's insurer to the extent not waived
herein.  Landlord  shall not be  required to repair or restore any of Tenant's
property or any  alteration,  installation  or leasehold  improvement  made in
and/or to the  Premises.  If, as a result of such damage to the Building or to
the core and shell of the  Premises,  the Premises are rendered  untenantable,
the Rent shall abate in  proportion  to the portion of the Premises not usable
by  Tenant  from the  date of such  fire or other  casualty  until  Landlord's
Restoration Work is substantially  completed.  Landlord shall not be liable to
Tenant for any delay in performing Landlord's  Restoration Work, Tenant's sole
remedy  being the right to an  abatement of rent,  as provided  above.  Tenant
shall  cooperate with Landlord in connection  with the performance by Landlord
of  Landlord's   Restoration   Work.  If  the  Premises  are  rendered  wholly
untenantable  by fire or other  casualty  and if Landlord  shall decide not to
restore the  Premises,  or if the Building  shall be so damaged that  Landlord
shall  decide to demolish it or not to rebuild it (whether or not the Premises
have been  damaged),  Landlord may within  ninety (90) days after such fire or
other cause give  written  notice to Tenant of its  election  that the term of
this Lease  shall  automatically  expire no less than ten (10) days after such
notice is given.  Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  each party shall look first
to any  insurance in its favor before making any claim against the other party
for recovery for loss or damage resulting from fire or other casualty,  and to
the extent that such insurance is in force and  collectible  and to the extent
permitted  by law,  Landlord  and Tenant each hereby  releases  and waives all
right of recovery  against the other or any one claiming through or under each
of them by way of subrogation or otherwise.  The foregoing  release and waiver
shall be in force only if both releasors'  insurance policies contain a clause
providing  that such a release or waiver shall not  invalidate  the  insurance
and also,  provided  that such a policy  can be  obtained  without  additional
premiums.  Tenant  hereby  expressly  waives the  provisions of Section 227 of
the Real  Property  Law and  agrees  that  the  foregoing  provisions  of this
Article shall govern and control in lieu thereof.

            11.02 In  the  event  that  the   Premises  has  been  damaged  or
destroyed  and this  Lease  has not been  terminated  in  accordance  with the
provisions  of this Article,  Tenant shall (i) cooperate  with Landlord in the
restoration  of the Premises and shall remove from the Premises as promptly as
reasonably possible all of Tenant's salvageable inventory,  movable equipment,
furniture  and  other  property  and (ii)  repair  the  damage  to the  tenant
improvements  and betterments and Tenant's  personal  property and restore the
Premises  within one hundred  eighty (180) days  following the date upon which
the core and shell of the Premises shall have been  substantially  repaired by
Landlord.

            11.03 For  purposes  of this  Section  11.03,  a "Major  Casualty"
shall mean damage or destruction  (i) to the core and shell of the Premises or
(ii) the Building to the extent that Tenant's  access to the Premises has been
substantially  impaired.  Provided  that  Landlord does not elect to terminate
this Lease in accordance with the provisions of this Article,  in the event of
a Major Casualty,  if: (i) there has been substantial damage or destruction to
any  portion  or  portions  of  the  Building  and  Landlord  shall  not  have
substantially  restored Tenant's access to the Premises within ten (10) months
from the date of such Major  Casualty,  or within such period  after such date
(not exceeding three (3) months) as shall equal the aggregate  period Landlord
may have  been  delayed  in  doing so by  reasons  of Force  Majeure  (defined
below);  or (ii) if damage  is  confined  substantially  to the  Premises  and
Landlord  shall not have  substantially  completed  the making of the required
repairs to the core and shell of the Premises  within ten (10) months from the
date of such  Major  Casualty,  or within  such  period  after  such date (not
exceeding  three (3) months) as shall equal the aggregate  period Landlord may
have been delayed in doing so by reasons of Force  Majeure,  then, and in such
event,  Tenant may elect to terminate this Lease upon giving written notice to
Landlord  within  thirty  (30) days after the end of such  twelve (12) or nine
(9)  month  period,  as the case may be,  and as the same may be  extended  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  hereof,  and the term of this  Lease  shall
expire on the date set forth  therein which shall be not less than thirty (30)
days after the date such notice is given (the  "Cancellation  Date")  provided
that  Landlord  does not  substantially  complete the required  repairs to the
Building or to the core and shell of the  Premises,  as the case may be, prior
to the  Cancellation  Date.  For  purposes of this  Article,  "Force  Majeure"
shall mean the inability of Landlord to perform an obligation  accruing  under
this  Article  by reason of  accidents,  strikes,  the  inability  to secure a
proper supply of fuel,  gas,  steam,  water,  electricity,  labor or supplies,
governmental  restrictions,  regulations or controls or by reason of any other
similar cause beyond the reasonable control of Landlord.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 12</B>

                                 <B><U>END OF TERM</U></B>

            12.01 Tenant  shall  surrender  the  Premises  to  Landlord at the
expiration or sooner  termination  of this Lease in good order and  condition,
except for reasonable wear and tear and damage by fire or other casualty,  and
Tenant  shall  remove all of its  property.  In the event that Tenant fails to
surrender  possession  of the  Premises  to Landlord  within  thirty (30) days
after the date of the  expiration  or sooner  termination  of the Term of this
Lease,  in addition to all other remedies  provided for herein,  in equity and
at law,  Tenant  agrees that it shall  indemnify  and save  Landlord  harmless
against all costs,  claims,  loss or liability  resulting from delay by Tenant
in so surrendering the Premises,  including,  without  limitation,  any claims
made by any  succeeding  tenant founded on such delay.  The parties  recognize
and agree that the damage to  Landlord  resulting  from any  failure by Tenant
timely to surrender the Premises will be  substantial,  will exceed the amount
of monthly Rent  theretofore  payable  hereunder,  and will be  impossible  of
accurate  measurement.  Tenant  therefore  agrees  that if  possession  of the
Premises is not  surrendered to Landlord  within one (1) day after the date of
the expiration or sooner  termination  of the Term of this Lease,  then Tenant
will pay  Landlord as  liquidated  damages for each month and for each portion
of any month during which Tenant holds over in the Premises  after  expiration
or  termination  of the Term of this  Lease,  a sum equal to two (2) times the
average Rent and Additional  Rent which was payable per month under this Lease
during  the last six months of the Term  thereof.  The  aforesaid  obligations
shall  survive  the  expiration  or  sooner  termination  of the  Term of this
Lease.  At any time  during the Term of this Lease,  Landlord  may exhibit the
Premises to  prospective  purchasers  or  mortgagees  of  Landlord's  interest
therein.  During  the  last  year  of the  term of this  Lease,  Landlord  may
exhibit the Premises to prospective tenants.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 13</B>

                       <B><U>SUBORDINATION AND ESTOPPEL, ETC.</U></B>

            13.01 This Lease is and shall be subject  and  subordinate  to all
present and future ground  leases,  underlying  leases and to all subleases of
the  entire  premises  demised  by  that  certain  ground  lease  (hereinafter
referred to as the "Mesne  Lease") dated December 30, 1957 and recorded in the
office of the  Register  of the City of New York in the  County of New York on
December  31,  1957,  in Liber  5024 of  Conveyances,  Page  430 of which  the
premises  hereby  demised  form a part (the Mesne Lease and any or all present
and  future  ground  leases  underlying  leases  and  subleases  of the entire
premises  demised by the Mesne Lease are hereunder  referred to as the "ground
leases" and the lessors and lessees  thereunder  are  hereinafter  referred to
respectively  as  the  "ground  lessors"  and  "ground  lessees"  ) and to all
renewals,  modifications,  replacements  and  extensions of the ground leases,
and to all present and future  mortgages  affecting  such ground  leases (such
mortgages are  hereinafter  referred to as the  "mortgages" and the mortgagees
thereunder are  hereinafter  referred to as the "the  mortgagees")  including,
without  limitation,  that certain Amended and Restated Indenture of Leasehold
Mortgage,  Security  Agreement,   Financing  Statement,   Fixture  Filing  and
Assignment of Leases,  Rents and Security  Deposits,  dated as of May 21, 1999
by and between SLG Graybar  Mesne Lease LLC and SLG Graybar  Sublease  LLC, as
mortgagor,  and German American Capital Corporation,  as mortgagee, and to all
renewals, modifications, replacements and extensions of the mortgages.

            13.02 Notwithstanding  the  subordination  of  this  Lease  to all
ground leases and  mortgages,  this Lease shall not terminate or be terminable
by Tenant by reason of the expiration or earlier  termination or  cancellation
of any  ground  lease  in  accordance  with  its  terms  or by  reason  of the
foreclosures  of any  mortgage,  except that this lease may be  terminated  if
Tenant is named as a party  and  served  with  process  in a summary  or other
proceeding brought by the lessor under the Mesne Lease  (hereinafter  referred
to as the "Mesne  Lessor") for the  possession of the premises  demised by the
Mesne Lease or the space  occupied by Tenant,  or in such  proceeding  brought
with the written consent of the Mesne Lessor delivered to Tenant,  and a final
order or  judgment  is entered,  and a warrant  for  possession  of such space
issued and executed against the defendants or respondents in such proceedings.

            13.03 Tenant agrees that if this Lease  terminates,  expires or is
canceled  for any reason or by any means  whatsoever  (other than by a summary
or other  proceeding  brought by the Mesne  Lessor or with the Mesne  Lessor's
written  consent  delivered to Tenant,  in which  summary or other  proceeding
Tenant is made a party and in which a final  order or  judgment is entered and
warrant  for  possession  is issued and  executed  against  Tenant)  and Mesne
Lessor or a ground  lessor so elects by written  notice to Tenant,  this lease
shall  automatically  be  reinstated  for the  balance of the term which would
have remained but for such  termination,  expiration or  cancellation,  at the
same   rental,   and  upon  the  same   agreements,   covenants,   conditions,
restrictions and provisions herein contained,  with the same rental,  and upon
the  same  agreements,  covenants,  conditions,  restrictions  and  provisions
herein  contained,  with the same force and effect as if no such  termination,
expiration or cancellation  had taken place.  Tenant  covenants to execute and
deliver any  instrument  required to confirm  the  validity of the  foregoing.
Anything herein  contained to the contrary  notwithstanding,  this lease shall
not be deemed to be  automatically  reinstated as aforesaid,  nor shall Tenant
be  obligated  to  execute  and  deliver  any   instrument   confirming   such
reinstatement,  if Tenant  has  delivered  to the Mesne  Lessor and any ground
lessor  so  electing  a notice  that in  Tenant's  option  this  lease  has so
terminated,  expired or been  canceled,  and neither the Mesne Lessor nor such
other ground lessor has,  within thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice
from  Tenant,  delivered  notice to Tenant of its  election  automatically  to
reinstate this lease.

            13.04 Tenant  hereby   consents  to  any  and  all  assignment  of
Landlord's  interest  in this  Lease to any  ground  lessor  or  mortgagee  as
collateral  security  for the  payment of the ground  rent or monies due under
any  mortgage.  Tenant  agrees to  attorn  to and pay rent to any such  ground
lessor's  or  mortgagee  in  accordance   with  the  provisions  of  any  such
assignment.

            13.05 Tenant  agrees  that no act,  or failure to act, on the part
of Landlord,  which would entitle Tenant under the terms of this Lease,  or by
law to be relieved of Tenant's  obligations  hereunder  or to  terminate  this
lease,  shall  result in a  release  or  termination  of such  obligations  or
termination  of this lease  unless (i) Tenant  shall have first given  written
notice of  Landlord's  act or failure to act to the ground  lessors  under all
then  existing  ground  leases,  to all  then  existing  mortgagees  who  have
requested   such  notice  from  Tenant,   and  to  German   American   Capital
Corporation,  as  mortgagee,  at (i) 1301  Sixth  Avenue,  New York,  New York
10019, Attn.:  General Counsel,  and at (ii) Skadden,  Arps, Slate,  Meagher &amp;
Flom,  LLP, 4 Times  Square,  New York,  New York 10036,  Attn.:  Harvey Uris,
Esq.,  specifying  the act or  failure  to act on the part of  Landlord  which
could or would given basis to Tenant's  rights and (ii) the ground lessors and
such  mortgagees,  after  receipt of such  notice,  have  failed or refused to
correct  or  cure  the  condition  complained  of  within  a  reasonable  time
thereafter  but  nothing  herein  contained  shall be  deemed  to  impose  any
obligation on any ground lessor or such  mortgagee to correct or cure any such
condition.

            13.06 This  Lease may not be  modified  or amended so as to reduce
the rent,  shorten  the term,  or  otherwise  materially  affect the rights of
Landlord  hereunder,  or be  canceled  or  surrendered  except as  provided in
Section 13.05 this Article  without the prior written consent in each instance
of the ground  lessors and of any  mortgagees  whose  mortgages  shall require
such consent.  Any such  modification,  agreement,  cancellation  or surrender
made without such prior written consent shall be null and void.

            13.07 From time to time,  Tenant, on at least ten (10) days' prior
written request by Landlord,  shall deliver to Landlord a statement in writing
certifying  that this Lease is unmodified  and in full force and effect (or if
there  shall  have  been  modifications,  that the same is in full  force  and
effect as modified and stating the  modifications)  and the dates to which the
Rent and other charges have been paid and stating  whether or not, to the best
of Tenant's knowledge,  Landlord is in default in performance of any covenant,
agreement or condition  contained  in this Lease and, if so,  specifying  each
such default.  Tenant hereby  irrevocably  constitutes  and appoints  Landlord
the  attorney-in-fact  of Tenant to execute,  acknowledge and deliver any such
statements  or  certificates  for and on behalf  of  Tenant in the event  that
Tenant fails to so execute any such statement or  certificate  for a period of
five (5) business days for notice of such default.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 14</B>

                                 <B><U>CONDEMNATION</U></B>

            14.01 If the whole or any  substantial  part of the Premises shall
be  condemned  by  eminent  domain or  acquired  by private  purchase  in lieu
thereof,  for any public or quasi-public  purpose,  this Lease shall terminate
on the date of the vesting of title through such  proceeding or purchase,  and
Tenant shall have no claim  against  Landlord  for the value of any  unexpired
portion of the Term of this  Lease,  nor shall  Tenant be entitled to any part
of  the  condemnation  award  or  private  purchase  price.  If  less  than  a
substantial  part  of  the  Premises  is  condemned,   this  Lease  shall  not
terminate,  but Rent shall abate in  proportion to the portion of the Premises
condemned.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 15</B>

                             <B><U>REQUIREMENTS OF LAW</U></B>

            15.01 Tenant at its expense  shall  comply  with all laws,  orders
and   regulations   of  any   governmental   authority   having  or  asserting
jurisdiction  over the Premises,  which shall impose any  violation,  order or
duty upon  Landlord  or Tenant  with  respect  to the  Premises  or the use or
occupancy thereof, including,  without limitation,  compliance in the Premises
with all City,  State and Federal laws,  rules and regulations on the disabled
or  handicapped,  on fire safety and on  hazardous  materials.  The  foregoing
shall not require Tenant to do structural work to the Building.

            15.02 Tenant shall  require  every person  engaged by him to clean
any window in the Premises  from the outside,  to use the equipment and safety
devices  required  by  Section  202 of the  Labor  Law  and the  rules  of any
governmental authority having or asserting jurisdiction.

            15.03 Tenant at its expense shall comply with all  requirements of
the New York Board of Fire  Underwriters,  or any other similar body affecting
the Premises,  and shall not use the Premises in a manner which shall increase
the rate of fire  insurance of Landlord or of any other  tenant,  over that in
effect  prior to this Lease.  If Tenant's use of the  Premises  increases  the
fire insurance rate,  Tenant shall  reimburse  Landlord for all such increased
costs.  That the  Premises are being used for the purpose set forth in Article
1 hereof shall not relieve Tenant from the foregoing  duties,  obligations and
expenses.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 16</B>

                           <B><U>CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY</U></B>

            16.01 Tenant  will  at no  time  use or  occupy  the  Premises  in
violation  of the  certificate  of  occupancy  issued  for the  Building.  The
statement  in this  Lease of the nature of the  business  to be  conducted  by
Tenant  shall not be deemed to  constitute  a  representation  or  guaranty by
Landlord  that such use is lawful or  permissible  in the  Premises  under the
certificate of occupancy for the Building.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 17</B>

                                  <B><U>POSSESSION</U></B>

            17.01 If  Landlord  shall  be  unable  to give  possession  of the
Premises on the  Commencement  Date because of the  retention of possession of
any  occupant  thereof,  alteration  or  construction  work,  or for any other
reason,  Landlord  shall not be subject to any liability for such failure.  In
such event, this Lease shall stay in full force and effect,  without extension
of its  Term.  However,  the Rent  hereunder  shall  not  commence  until  the
Premises are  available  for  occupancy by Tenant.  If delay in  possession is
due to  work,  changes  or  decorations  being  made by or for  Tenant,  or is
otherwise  caused by Tenant,  there  shall be no rent  abatement  and the Rent
shall  commence on the date  specified in this Lease.  If  permission is given
to  Tenant  to  occupy  the  Premises  or  other  Premises  prior  to the date
specified as the  commencement  of the Term, such occupancy shall be deemed to
be  pursuant  to the  terms  of this  Lease,  except  that the  parties  shall
separately  agree  as to the  obligation  of  Tenant  to  pay  Rent  for  such
occupancy.  The  provisions  of this  Article are  intended to  constitute  an
"express  provision to the contrary" within the meaning of Section 223(a), New
York Real Property Law.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 18</B>

                               <B><U>QUIET ENJOYMENT</U></B>

            18.01 Landlord   covenants  that  if  Tenant  pays  the  Rent  and
performs  all of  Tenant's  other  obligations  under this  Lease,  Tenant may
peaceably and quietly enjoy the Premises,  subject to the terms, covenants and
conditions  of this  Lease and to the  ground  leases,  underlying  leases and
mortgages hereinbefore mentioned.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 19</B>

                                <B><U>RIGHT OF ENTRY</U></B>

            19.01 Tenant  shall  permit  Landlord  to  erect,   construct  and
maintain pipes,  conduits and shafts in and through the Premises provided that
the  same  are  located  within  walls  or above  hung  ceilings  and,  if not
reasonably  practicable,  otherwise  concealed.  Landlord or its agents  shall
have the right to enter or pass through the  Premises at all times,  by master
key and, in the event of an emergency,  by reasonable  force or otherwise,  to
examine the same,  and to make such  repairs,  alterations  or additions as it
may deem  necessary or desirable to the Premises or the Building,  and to take
all material  into and upon the Premises that may be required  therefor.  Such
entry  and work  shall not  constitute  an  eviction  of Tenant in whole or in
part,  shall not be grounds for any  abatement  of rent,  and shall  impose no
liability  on  Landlord  by reason  of  inconvenience  or  injury to  Tenant's
business.  Landlord  shall  have  the  right  at any  time,  without  the same
constituting an actual or  constructive  eviction,  and without  incurring any
liability to Tenant,  to change the  arrangement  and/or location of entrances
or passageways,  windows,  corridors,  elevators,  stairs,  toilets,  or other
public  parts of the  Building,  and to change  the  designation  of rooms and
suites and the name or number by which the Building is known.  Landlord  shall
use reasonable efforts to minimize  interference with Tenant's normal business
activities within the Premises  provided,  however,  that Tenant  acknowledges
and agrees that at, Landlord's  election,  all such work shall be performed on
normal business days during normal business hours,  unless Tenant requests and
pays Landlord incremental difference in cost for overtime or premium labor.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 20</B>

                                  <B><U>INDEMNITY</U></B>

            20.01 Tenant shall  indemnify,  defend and save Landlord  harmless
from and against any  liability or expense  arising from the use or occupation
of the Premises by Tenant, or anyone on the Premises with Tenant's permission.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 21</B>

                          <B><U>LANDLORD'S LIABILITY, ETC.</U></B>

            21.01 This Lease and the  obligations  of Tenant  hereunder  shall
not in any way be  affected  because  Landlord is unable to fulfill any of its
obligations  or to supply any service,  by reason of strike or other cause not
within Landlord's  control.  Landlord shall have the right,  without incurring
any  liability  to  Tenant,  to  stop  any  service  because  of  accident  or
emergency,  or  for  repairs,   alterations  or  improvements,   necessary  or
desirable in the  judgment of Landlord,  until such  repairs,  alterations  or
improvements  shall  have  been  completed.  Landlord  shall  not be liable to
Tenant  or  anyone  else,  for any  loss or  damage  to  person,  property  or
business;  nor shall  Landlord be liable for any latent defect in the Premises
or the Building.  Neither the  partners,  entities or  individuals  comprising
the Landlord,  nor the agents,  directors,  or officers or employees of any of
the  foregoing   shall  be  liable  for  the  performance  of  the  Landlord's
obligations  hereunder.  Tenant agrees to look solely to Landlord's estate and
interest  in the land and  Building,  or the lease of the  Building  or of the
land and Building,  and the  Premises,  for the  satisfaction  of any right or
remedy  of  Tenant  for the  collection  of a  judgement  (or  other  judicial
process)  requiring the payment of money by Landlord,  and in the event of any
liability by Landlord,  and no other  property or assets of Landlord or of any
of the  aforementioned  parties  shall be subject to levy,  execution or other
enforcement  procedure for the satisfaction of Tenant's remedies under or with
respect to this Lease, the relationship of Landlord and Tenant  hereunder,  or
Tenant's use and occupancy of the Premises or any other  liability of Landlord
to Tenant.

            21.02 If Landlord  fails to make any repair or provide any service
which  Landlord is obligated to perform or provide  under this Lease and, as a
result  thereof,  Tenant shall be not able to use and shall have  discontinued
its  occupancy  of all or any portion of the Premises for a period of ten (10)
consecutive  business  days or more after  notice  thereof to  Landlord  then,
except as  provided  in Article  11 hereof,  Tenant  shall be  entitled  to an
abatement  of Rent with  respect to the Rent  allocable to such portion of the
Premises  which is not  usable and is  unoccupied  for each day after said ten
(10)  consecutive  business  day period  until said repair is made or services
restored by Landlord provided further,  however,  Tenant shall not be entitled
to an abatement  of Rent in the event that such  failure  results from (i) any
installation,  alteration or improvement  performed by or on behalf of Tenant;
(ii)  Tenant's  failure  to  perform  its  obligations  hereunder;  (iii)  the
negligence or tortious conduct of Tenant, its agents,  servants,  employees or
invitees;  (iv) force  majeure,  labor  troubles  or the  inability  to obtain
materials or (vi) any other reason beyond the reasonable control of Landlord.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 22</B>

                            <B><U>CONDITION OF PREMISES</U></B>

            22.01 The  parties  acknowledge  that  Tenant  has  inspected  the
Premises and the Building and is fully  familiar  with the physical  condition
thereof and Tenant  agrees to accept the Premises at the  commencement  of the
Term in its  then "as is"  condition.  Tenant  acknowledges  and  agrees  that
Landlord  shall have no  obligation  to do any work in or to the  Premises  in
order to make it suitable and ready for  occupancy  and use by Tenant,  except
to the extent expressly provided for in this Article 22.

            22.02 Annexed  hereto  as  Exhibit  D  is  a  workletter  for  the
construction  of six (6) new  offices  in the  Premises  ("Tenant's  Initial
Alteration  Work").  Landlord shall perform Tenant's  Initial  Alteration Work
in  a  building  standard  manner  using  building  standard   materials  with
reasonable  dispatch,  subject to delay by causes beyond its control or by the
action  or  inaction  of  Tenant.  Tenant  acknowledges  and  agrees  that the
performance of Tenant's Initial Alteration Work is expressly  conditioned upon
compliance  by  Tenant  with  all the  terms  and  conditions  of this  Lease,
including payment of Rent.

            22.03 Any changes in or additions to Tenant's  Initial  Alteration
Work which  shall be  consented  to by  Landlord,  and  further  changes in or
additions to the Premises  after  Tenant's  Initial  Alteration  Work has been
completed  which shall be so  consented  to  (collectively,  "Change  Orders")
shall be made by  Landlord,  or its  agents,  but  shall be paid for by Tenant
promptly when billed at cost plus 1 1/4% for  insurance,  10% for overhead and
10% for  general  conditions,  and in the event of the failure of Tenant so to
pay for said  changes or  additions,  Landlord at its option may  consider the
cost  thereof,  plus the above  percentages,  as  Additional  Rent  payable by
Tenant and  collectible  as such  hereunder,  as part of the rent for the next
ensuing months.

            22.04 Notwithstanding  anything  contained herein to the contrary,
(i)  Tenant's  Initial  Alteration  Work  shall be deemed to be  substantially
completed   notwithstanding   that  (i)  minor  or  non-material   details  of
construction,  mechanical  adjustment  or  decoration  remain to be performed,
provided,  that said "Punch List Items" shall be completed by Landlord  within
a  reasonable  time  thereafter  or (ii) at  Tenant's  request,  a portion  of
Tenant's   Initial   Alteration  Work  is  incomplete   because   construction
scheduling  requires  that such work be done  after  incomplete  finishing  or
after  other  work to be done by or on  behalf  of  Tenant  is  completed.  If
Tenant's  Initial  Alteration Work is not  substantially  completed  and/or is
delayed  by reason of a Tenant  Delay (as such term is  hereinafter  defined),
then the  Commencement  Date shall be  accelerated  (and  Tenant  shall pay as
hereinbefore  provided  Fixed  Annual Rent and  Additional  Rent on a per diem
basis  upon  demand)  one  (1)  day  for  each  day  of  delay  of  Landlord's
substantial  completion  caused  by  a  Tenant  Delay.  For  purposes  hereof,
"Tenant Delay" shall mean any delay in the substantial  completion of Tenant's
Initial  Alteration  Work caused by any act,  omission of, or any change to of
Tenant's Initial Alteration Work requested by, Tenant, its agents,  designers,
architects, engineers, consultants,  contractors, invitees or employees or any
other party acting or apparently acting on Tenant's behalf.

            22.05 Notwithstanding  anything to the contrary  contained herein,
in addition  to the  payment by Tenant to  Landlord  of Fixed  Annual Rent and
Additional  Rent hereunder,  Tenant shall pay to Landlord as additional  Fixed
Annual Rent  hereunder  all costs,  fees and expenses  incurred by Landlord in
connection   with  the  performance  of  Tenant's   Initial   Alteration  Work
(including,  without limitation,  the cost of all Change Orders, a supervisory
fee, insurance and overhead,  but excluding any costs incurred by Landlord for
the preparation of architectural  plans) together with interest thereon at the
rate of ten (10%) per annum,  which shall be payable in thirty-six  (36) equal
monthly  installments of principal and interest (calculated by Landlord in the
manner of a thirty-six  (36) month  self-liquidating  mortgage  loan where the
outstanding  principal  balance  equals  such  amount)  commencing  as of  the
Commencement Date.



                                   <B>ARTICLE 23</B>

                                   <B><U>CLEANING</U></B>

            23.01 Landlord  shall  cause  the  Premises  to be kept  clean  in
accordance with  Landlord's  customary  standards for the Building,  a copy of
which is annexed  hereto and made a part hereof as Exhibit "C",  provided they
are kept in order by  Tenant.  Landlord,  its  cleaning  contractor  and their
employees  shall  have  after-hours  access  to the  Premises  and  the use of
Tenant's light, power and water in the Premises as may be reasonably  required
for the  purpose of  cleaning  the  Premises.  Landlord  may  remove  Tenant's
extraordinary refuse from the Building and Tenant shall pay the cost thereof.

            23.02 Tenant  acknowledges that Landlord has designated a cleaning
contractor   for  the   Building.   Tenant  agrees  to  employ  said  cleaning
contractor  or such  other  contractor  as  Landlord  shall  from time to time
designate  (the  "Building  Cleaning  Contractor")  to  perform  all  cleaning
services  required  under  the Lease to be  performed  by  Tenant  within  the
Premises  and  for  any  other  waxing,  polishing,  and  other  cleaning  and
maintenance  work  of  the  Premises  and  Tenant's  furniture,  fixtures  and
equipment (collectively,  "Tenant Cleaning Services") provided that the prices
charged by said  contractor are comparable to the prices  customarily  charged
by other  reputable  cleaning  contractors  employing  union  labor in midtown
Manhattan for the same level and quality of service.  Tenant acknowledges that
it has been  advised that the  cleaning  contractor  for the Building may be a
division or  affiliate  of  Landlord.  Tenant  agrees that it shall not employ
any other cleaning and maintenance  contractor,  nor any  individual,  firm or
organization for such purpose,  without  Landlord's prior written consent.  In
the event that  Landlord  and Tenant  cannot  agree on whether the prices then
being charged by the Building  Cleaning  Contractor for such cleaning services
are  comparable  to those  charged by other  reputable  contractors  as herein
provided,  then  Landlord  and Tenant shall each obtain two (2) bona fide bids
for  such  services  from  reputable  cleaning  contractors   performing  such
services in comparable  buildings in midtown Manhattan  employing union labor,
and the  average  of the four  bids thus  obtained  shall be the  standard  of
comparison.  In the  event  that the  Building  Cleaning  Contractor  does not
agree to perform such  cleaning  services  for Tenant at such  average  price,
Landlord  shall not  unreasonably  withhold its consent to the  performance of
Tenant  Cleaning  Services by a reputable  cleaning  contractor  designated by
Tenant  employing  union labor with the proper  jurisdictional  qualifications
provided,  however, that, without limitation,  Landlord's experience with such
contractor or any criminal  proceedings  pending or  previously  filed against
such  contractor may form a basis upon which Landlord may withhold or withdraw
its consent.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 24</B>

                                 <B><U>JURY WAIVER</U></B>

            24.01 Landlord  and  Tenant  hereby  waive  trial  by  jury in any
action,  proceeding or counterclaim  involving any matter  whatsoever  arising
out of or in any way connected with this Lease,  the  relationship of Landlord
and Tenant,  Tenant's use or occupancy of the Premises or involving  the right
to  any   statutory   relief  or  remedy.   Tenant  will  not   interpose  any
counterclaim of any nature in any summary proceeding.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 25</B>

                               <B><U>NO WAIVER, ETC.</U></B>

            25.01 No  act  or  omission  of  Landlord  or  its  agents   shall
constitute an actual or  constructive  eviction,  unless  Landlord  shall have
first  received  written  notice  of  Tenant's  claim  and  shall  have  had a
reasonable  opportunity  to meet such  claim.  In the event  that any  payment
herein  provided for by Tenant to Landlord  shall become  overdue for a period
in excess of ten (10) days,  then at  Landlord's  option a "late charge" shall
become due and payable to Landlord,  as Additional  Rent, from the date it was
due  until  payment  is made,  at the  following  rates:  for  individual  and
partnership  lessees,  said late charge shall be computed at the maximum legal
rate of  interest;  for  corporate  or  governmental  entity  lessees the late
charge  shall  be  computed  at two  percent  per  month  unless  there  is an
applicable  maximum  legal rate of interest  which then shall be used.  No act
or omission of Landlord or its agents  shall  constitute  an  acceptance  of a
surrender of the Premises,  except a writing signed by Landlord.  The delivery
or  acceptance  of keys to  Landlord  or its  agents  shall not  constitute  a
termination  of this  Lease or a  surrender  of the  Premises.  Acceptance  by
Landlord of less than the Rent herein  provided shall at Landlord's  option be
deemed on account of earliest Rent  remaining  unpaid.  No  endorsement on any
check,  or  letter   accompanying   Rent,   shall  be  deemed  an  accord  and
satisfaction,  and such check may be cashed without prejudice to Landlord.  No
waiver of any provision of this Lease shall be  effective,  unless such waiver
be in writing  signed by the party to be charged.  In no event shall Tenant be
entitled to make,  nor shall Tenant make any claim,  and Tenant  hereby waives
any claim for money  damages (nor shall Tenant claim any money  damages by way
of set-off,  counterclaim  or defense)  based upon any claim or  assertion  by
Tenant that Landlord had  unreasonably  withheld,  delayed or conditioned  its
consent or approval  to any  request by Tenant made under a provision  of this
Lease.  Tenant's  sole remedy shall be an action or  proceeding to enforce any
such provision,  or for specific performance or declaratory  judgment.  Tenant
shall comply with the rules and regulations  contained in this Lease,  and any
reasonable  modifications thereof or additions thereto.  Landlord shall not be
liable to Tenant for the violation of such rules and  regulations by any other
tenant.  Failure of Landlord to enforce any  provision  of this Lease,  or any
rule or  regulation,  shall not be construed  as the waiver of any  subsequent
violation  of  a  provision  of  this  Lease,   or  any  rule  or  regulation.
Landlord  will  enforce  all rules  and  regulations  in a  non-discriminatory
manner.  This Lease shall not be affected by nor shall  Landlord in any way be
liable for the closing,  darkening or bricking up of windows in the  Premises,
for any reason,  including  as the result of  construction  on any property of
which the Premises are not a part or by Landlord's own acts.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 26</B>

                         <B><U>OCCUPANCY AND USE BY TENANT</U></B>

            26.01 If this  Lease is  terminated  because of  Tenant's  default
hereunder,  then, in addition to Landlord's  rights of re-entry,  restoration,
preparation  for and  rerental,  and  anything  elsewhere in this Lease to the
contrary notwithstanding,  all Rent and Additional Rent reserved in this Lease
from  the date of such  breach  to the  expiration  date of this  Lease  shall
become  immediately  due and payable to Landlord and Landlord shall retain its
right to judgment on and collection of Tenant's  aforesaid  obligation to make
a single  payment to  Landlord of a sum equal to the amount by which the Fixed
Annual  Rent and  Additional  Rent  payable  hereunder  for the  period to the
Expiration  Date from the date of such  breach  together  with all  reasonable
out-of-pocket  expenses of Lessor in obtaining possession of, and in effecting
the  reletting  of the  premises  including,  without  limitation,  alteration
costs,  commissions,  concessions  and legal  fees,  exceeds the then fair and
reasonable  rental value of the Premises for the same period,  both discounted
at the prime rate of interest  charged by Chase  Manhattan Bank, New York, (or
the successor  thereto),  on the date of such breach to present  worth.  In no
event shall  Tenant be entitled to a credit or repayment  for rerental  income
which  exceeds the sums  payable by Tenant  hereunder or which covers a period
after the original Term of this Lease.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 27</B>

                                   <B><U>NOTICES</U></B>

            27.01 Any bill,  notice or demand from Landlord to Tenant,  may be
delivered  personally at the Premises or sent by registered or certified  mail
or by any nationally  recognized  overnight  delivery service and addressed to
Tenant at the  Premises,  after the date upon  which  Tenant  first  commences
occupancy  of the  Premises,  or at the address  first set forth  herein prior
thereto.  Such  bill,  notice or demand  shall be deemed to have been given at
the time of  delivery,  mailing  or  receipt  by such  delivery  service.  Any
notice,  request or demand from Tenant to Landlord  must be sent by registered
or certified mail to the last address designated in writing by Landlord.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 28</B>

                                    <B><U>WATER</U></B>

            28.01 Tenant  shall  pay the  amount  of  Landlord's  cost for all
excessive  water used by Tenant for any purpose other than ordinary pantry and
lavatory uses,  and any sewer rent or tax based thereon.  Landlord may install
a water meter to measure  Tenant's  water  consumption  for all  purposes  and
Tenant  agrees to pay for the  installation  and  maintenance  thereof and for
water  consumed  as  shown on said  meter at  Landlord's  cost  therefor  plus
fifteen (15%)  percent.  If water is made  available to Tenant in the Building
or the  Premises  through a meter  which  also  supplies  other  Premises,  or
without a meter,  then Tenant  shall pay to Landlord a  reasonable  charge per
month for water.  Landlord  reserves the right to discontinue water service to
the  Premises if either the  quantity or  character of such service is changed
or is no longer  available or suitable for  Tenant's  requirements  or for any
other reason without  releasing Tenant from any liability under this Lease and
without  Landlord or Landlord's  agent  incurring any liability for any damage
or loss sustained by Tenant by such discontinuance of service.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 29</B>

                               <B><U>SPRINKLER SYSTEM</U></B>

            29.01 If there shall be a  "sprinkler  system" in the Premises for
any period  during this Lease such  sprinkler  system is damaged by any act or
omission of Tenant or its agents,  employees,  licensees or  visitors,  Tenant
shall  restore the system to good working  condition  at its own  expense.  If
the  New  York  Board  of  Fire  Underwriters,  the New  York  Fire  Insurance
Exchange,  the  Insurance  Services  Office,  or  any  governmental  authority
requires  the  installation  of, or any  alteration  to a sprinkler  system by
reason of Tenant's  particular  manner of  occupancy  or use of the  Premises,
including  any  alteration  necessary  to  obtain  the  full  allowance  for a
sprinkler  system in the fire  insurance  rate of  Landlord,  or for any other
reason,  Tenant shall make such  installation or alteration  promptly,  and at
its own expense.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 30

                             <U>HEAT, ELEVATOR, ETC.</U></B>

            30.01 Landlord  shall provide  elevator  service  during all usual
business hours  including  Saturdays  until 1 P.M.,  except on Sundays,  State
holidays,  Federal  holidays,  or Building  Service  Employees  Union Contract
holidays.  Landlord  shall furnish heat to the Premises  during the same hours
on the same days in the cold  season in each  year.  If the  elevators  in the
Building are manually  operated,  Landlord may convert to automatic  elevators
at any time,  without in any way  affecting  Tenant's  obligations  hereunder.
Landlord shall provide a minimum of one (1) passenger  elevator from the lobby
of the  Building to the  Premises  twenty-four  (24) hours per day,  seven (7)
days per week, subject to all other applicable provisions of the Lease.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 31

                               <U>SECURITY DEPOSIT</U></B>

            31.01 Tenant has  deposited  with Landlord the sum of $ 129,623.92
as security (the  "Security")  for the  performance  by Tenant of the terms of
this Lease.  Landlord  may use any part of the Security to satisfy any default
of Tenant  and any  expenses  arising  from such  default,  including  but not
limited  to legal  fees and any  damages  or rent  deficiency  before or after
re-entry by Landlord.  Tenant  shall,  upon demand,  deposit with Landlord the
full amount so used,  and/or any amount not so deposited  by Tenant,  in order
that  Landlord  shall  have the full  Security  deposit  on hand at all  times
during the term of this Lease.  If Tenant  shall  comply  fully with the terms
of this Lease,  the Security  shall be returned to Tenant after the date fixed
as the end of the  lease.  In the  event of a sale or  lease  of the  Building
containing  the Premises,  Landlord may transfer the Security to the purchaser
or tenant,  and Landlord  shall  thereupon be released  from all liability for
the return of the Security.  This  provision  shall apply to every transfer or
assignment  of the  Security  to a new  Landlord.  Tenant  shall have no legal
power to assign or encumber the Security  herein  described.  Landlord  agrees
to deposit the  Security in an interest  bearing  account in a bank located in
New York  State.  To the  extent  not  prohibited  by law,  Landlord  shall be
entitled to receive and retain as an  administrative  expense  that portion of
the  interest  received  on such  account  which  represents  the  maximum fee
permitted  under  applicable  law,  which fee Landlord shall have the right to
withdraw  from time to time,  as Landlord  may  determine.  The balance of the
interest shall be added to and held as part of the Security  subject to and in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this  Article.  Landlord  shall  not be
required  to credit  Tenant  with any  interest  for any period  during  which
Landlord does not receive interest on the Security.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 32

                                <U>TAX ESCALATION</U></B>

            32.01 Tenant  shall  pay to  Landlord,  as  Additional  Rent,  tax
escalation in accordance with this Article:

            (a)   For purposes of this Lease,  Landlord and Tenant acknowledge
and agree that the rentable  square foot area of the Premises  shall be deemed
to be 10,495 square feet.

            (b)   For the purpose of this Article,  the following  definitions
shall apply:

            (i) The term  "Tenant's  Share",  for  purposes of  computing  tax
escalation,  shall  mean  0.943  percent  (0.943%).  Tenant's  Share  has been
computed on the basis of a fraction,  the  numerator  of which is the rentable
square foot area of the  Premises  and the  denominator  of which is the total
rentable  square foot area of the office and commercial  space in the Building
Project.  The parties  acknowledge  and agree that the total  rentable  square
foot area of the office and commercial  space in the Building Project shall be
deemed to be 1,112,424 sq. ft.

            (ii) The term the  "Building  Project"  shall  mean the  aggregate
combined  parcel of land on a portion of which are the  improvements  of which
the  Premises  form  a  part,  with  all  the   improvements   thereon,   said
improvements  being a part of the  block  and lot for tax  purposes  which are
applicable to the aforesaid land.

            (iii) The "Base Tax Year"  shall mean the New York City fiscal tax
year commencing on July 1, 2001 through June 30, 2002.

            (iv) The term "Comparative  Year" shall mean the twelve (12) month
period following the Base Tax Year, and each subsequent  period of twelve (12)
months thereafter.

            (v) The term  "Real  Estate  Taxes"  shall  mean the  total of all
taxes and  special or other  assessments  levied,  assessed  or imposed at any
time by any  governmental  authority  upon or  against  the  Building  Project
including,  without  limitation,  any tax or  assessment  levied,  assessed or
imposed  at any time by any  governmental  authority  in  connection  with the
receipt of income or rents from said Building  Project to the extent that same
shall  be in  lieu  of all or a  portion  of any  of the  aforesaid  taxes  or
assessments,  or additions or increases thereof, upon or against said Building
Project.  If,  due to a future  change  in the  method of  taxation  or in the
taxing  authority,  or for any other  reason,  a franchise,  income,  transit,
profit or other tax or governmental imposition,  however designated,  shall be
levied  against  Landlord  in  substitution  in  whole or in part for the Real
Estate  Taxes,  or in lieu of  additions  to or  increases of said Real Estate
Taxes,  then  such  franchise,   income,  transit,  profit  or  other  tax  or
governmental  imposition  shall be deemed to be included within the definition
of "Real Estate Taxes" for the purposes hereof.

            (vi) Where more than one  assessment is imposed by the City of New
York  for any tax  year,  whether  denominated  an  "actual  assessment"  or a
"transitional  assessment"  or otherwise,  then the phrases  herein  "assessed
value" and "assessments"  shall mean whichever of the actual,  transitional or
other  assessment  is  designated  by the  City  of New  York  as the  taxable
assessment for that tax year.

            32.02 In the event  that the Real  Estate  Taxes  payable  for any
Comparative  Year shall  exceed the amount of the Real  Estate  Taxes  payable
during the Base Tax Year,  Tenant shall pay to Landlord,  as  Additional  Rent
for such  Comparative  Year, an amount equal to Tenant's  Share of the excess.
Before or after the start of each Comparative Year,  Landlord shall furnish to
Tenant a  statement  of the Real  Estate  Taxes  payable  during  the Base Tax
Year.  If the Real Estate Taxes payable for such  Comparative  Year exceed the
Real Estate Taxes payable during the Base Tax Year,  Additional  Rent for such
Comparative  Year, in an amount equal to Tenant's  Share of the excess,  shall
be due from Tenant to Landlord,  and such  Additional Rent shall be payable by
Tenant to  Landlord  within  thirty (30) days after  receipt of the  aforesaid
statement.  The benefit of any  discount for any early  payment or  prepayment
of Real Estate Taxes shall accrue solely to the benefit of Landlord,  and such
discount  shall not be  subtracted  from the Real Estate Taxes payable for any
Comparative  Year.  In  addition  to  the  foregoing,   Tenant  shall  pay  to
Landlord,  on demand, as Additional Rent, a sum equal to Tenant's Share of any
business improvement district assessment payable by the Building Project.

            32.03 Should the Real  Estate  Taxes  payable  during the Base Tax
Year be reduced by final  determination  of legal  proceedings,  settlement or
otherwise,  then, the Real Estate Taxes payable during the Base Tax Year shall
be  correspondingly  revised,  the Additional Rent theretofore paid or payable
hereunder for all  Comparative  Years shall be recomputed on the basis of such
reduction,  and Tenant shall pay to Landlord as  Additional  Rent,  within ten
(10) days after being billed  therefor,  any deficiency  between the amount of
such  Additional  Rent as  theretofore  computed and the amount thereof due as
the result of such recomputations.

            32.04 If,  after  Tenant  shall have made a payment of  Additional
Rent under Section  32.02,  Landlord  shall receive a refund of any portion of
the Real  Estate  Taxes  payable for any  Comparative  Year after the Base Tax
Year on which such  payment of  Additional  Rent shall have been  based,  as a
result of a reduction  of such Real  Estate  Taxes by final  determination  of
legal  proceedings,  settlement or otherwise,  Landlord  shall within ten (10)
days after  receiving  the refund pay to Tenant  Tenant's  Share of the refund
less Tenant's Share of expenses  (including  attorneys' and appraisers'  fees)
incurred by Landlord in connection  with any such  application  or proceeding.
In addition to the  foregoing,  Tenant  shall pay to Landlord,  as  Additional
Rent,  within ten (10) days after  Landlord  shall have  delivered to Tenant a
statement  therefor,  Tenant's Share of all out-of-pocket  expenses reasonably
incurred by Landlord in reviewing or contesting  the validity or amount of any
Real Estate Taxes or for the purpose of obtaining  reductions  in the assessed
valuation of the Building  Project  prior to the billing of Real Estate Taxes,
including  without  limitation,  the  reasonable  fees  and  disbursements  of
attorneys, third party consultants, experts and others.

            32.05 The  statements  of the Real Estate Taxes to be furnished by
Landlord  as  provided   above  shall  be  certified  by  Landlord  and  shall
constitute a final  determination  as between  Landlord and Tenant of the Real
Estate Taxes for the periods represented thereby,  unless Tenant within thirty
(30) days after they are  furnished  shall give a written  notice to  Landlord
that it disputes their accuracy or their  appropriateness,  which notice shall
specify  the  particular  respects in which the  statement  is  inaccurate  or
inappropriate.  If Tenant shall so dispute said  statement  then,  pending the
resolution of such dispute,  Tenant shall pay the Additional  Rent to Landlord
in accordance with the statement furnished by Landlord.

            32.06 In no event shall the Fixed  Annual Rent under this Lease be
reduced by virtue of this Article.

            32.07 If the  Commencement  Date of the Term of this  Lease is not
the first day of the first  Comparative  Year,  then the  Additional  Rent due
hereunder for such first  Comparative  Year shall be a proportionate  share of
said  Additional  Rent for the entire  Comparative  Year,  said  proportionate
share to be based  upon the  length  of time  that the  lease  Term will be in
existence  during  such  first   Comparative   Year.  Upon  the  date  of  any
expiration  or  termination  of this  Lease  (except  termination  because  of
Tenant's  default)  whether the same be the date hereinabove set forth for the
expiration of the Term or any prior or subsequent date, a proportionate  share
of said Additional Rent for the Comparative  Year during which such expiration
or termination  occurs shall  immediately  become due and payable by Tenant to
Landlord,  if it was  not  theretofore  already  billed  and  paid.  The  said
proportionate  share  shall be based  upon the  length of time that this Lease
shall have been in existence  during such  Comparative  Year.  Landlord  shall
promptly cause  statements of said Additional Rent for that  Comparative  Year
to be prepared and  furnished to Tenant.  Landlord and Tenant shall  thereupon
make appropriate adjustments of amounts then owing.

            32.08 Landlord's and Tenant's  obligations to make the adjustments
referred  to  in  Section  32.07  above  shall   survive  any   expiration  or
termination  of this  Lease.  Any delay or failure of  Landlord in billing any
tax  escalation  hereinabove  provided  shall not constitute a waiver of or in
any way impair the continuing  obligation of Tenant to pay such tax escalation
hereunder.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 33

                                 <U>RENT CONTROL</U></B>

            33.01 In the event the Fixed  Annual  Rent or  Additional  Rent or
any part thereof  provided to be paid by Tenant under the  provisions  of this
Lease during the demised term shall become  uncollectible  or shall be reduced
or required to be reduced or refunded by virtue of any Federal,  State, County
or City law, order or  regulation,  or by any direction of a public officer or
body  pursuant  to law,  or the  orders,  rules,  code or  regulations  of any
organization  or entity formed pursuant to law,  whether such  organization or
entity be public or private,  then  Landlord,  at its option,  may at any time
thereafter  terminate  this Lease,  by not less than thirty (30) days' written
notice to  Tenant,  on a date set forth in said  notice,  in which  event this
Lease  and the  term  hereof  shall  terminate  and come to an end on the date
fixed in said  notice  as if the said  date  were  the date  originally  fixed
herein for the  termination  of the demised term.  Landlord shall not have the
right so to terminate  this Lease if Tenant  within such period of thirty (30)
days shall in writing  lawfully agree that the rentals  herein  reserved are a
reasonable  rental  and agree to  continue  to pay said  rentals,  and if such
agreement by Tenant shall then be legally enforceable by Landlord.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 34

                                   <U>SUPPLIES</U></B>

            34.01 Only  Landlord  or  any  one  or  more  persons,  firms,  or
corporations  authorized in writing by Landlord  shall be permitted to furnish
laundry,  linens, towels, drinking water, water coolers, ice and other similar
supplies and services to tenants and licensees in the  Building.  Landlord may
fix,  in its own  absolute  discretion,  from time to time,  the hours  during
which and the  regulations  under which such  supplies  and services are to be
furnished.  Landlord  expressly  reserves the right to act as or to designate,
from  time to time,  an  exclusive  supplier  of all or any one or more of the
said supplies and services;  and Landlord  furthermore  expressly reserves the
right to exclude from the Building any person, firm or corporation  attempting
to furnish any of said supplies or services but not so designated by Landlord.

            34.02 Only  Landlord  or  any  one  or  more  persons,   firms  or
corporations  authorized  in writing by Landlord  shall be  permitted to sell,
deliver or furnish any food or beverages  whatsoever  for  consumption  within
the Premises or elsewhere in the  Building.  Landlord  expressly  reserves the
right to act as or to  designate  from time to time an  exclusive  supplier or
suppliers of such food and  beverages.  Landlord  further  expressly  reserves
the  right to  exclude  from the  Building  any  person,  firm or  corporation
attempting  to  deliver  or  purvey  any such  food or  beverages,  but not so
designated  by  Landlord.  It is  understood,  however,  that  Tenant  or  its
regular  office  employees  may  personally  bring food or beverages  into the
Building for consumption  within the Premises by the said  employees,  but not
for resale or for  consumption  by any other  tenant.  Landlord may fix in its
absolute  discretion  from  time to  time  the  hours  during  which,  and the
regulations  under which,  food and beverages may be brought into the Building
by Tenant or its regular employees.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 35

                               <U>AIR CONDITIONING</U></B>

            35.01 Tenant  shall be permitted  to use the  equipment  presently
supplying  air-conditioning  service  to the  Premises  (the  "Existing  HVAC
Equipment")  Monday  to  Friday  from  8:00  a.m.  to  6:00  p.m.  during  the
Building's  "Cooling  Season"  (which is currently May 15 through  October 15)
subject to and in  accordance  with the  provisions  of this  Article.  Tenant
acknowledges  and agrees that  air-conditioning  service to the Premises shall
be supplied through equipment operated,  maintained and repaired by Tenant and
that  Landlord has no  obligation  to operate,  maintain or to repair the said
equipment  or  to  supply  air-conditioning   service  to  the  Premises.  The
Existing HVAC Equipment and all other air conditioning systems,  equipment and
facilities  hereafter located in or servicing the Premises (the "Supplemental
Systems")  including,  without  limitation,  the  ducts,  dampers,  registers,
grilles and  appurtenances  utilized in connection with both the Existing HVAC
Equipment and the Supplemental Systems  (collectively  hereinafter referred to
as the "HVAC  System"),  shall be maintained,  repaired and operated by Tenant
in  compliance  with all  present  and future  laws and  regulations  relating
thereto  at  Tenant's  sole  cost  and  expense.  Tenant  shall  pay  for  all
electricity  consumed  in the  operation  of the  HVAC  System,  and  Tenant's
proportionate  share of the electric current (and/or water, gas and steam) for
the  production  of  chilled  and/or  condenser  water  and its  supply to the
Premises,  if applicable,  which shall become the obligation of Tenant subject
to the terms of Article 41 of this Lease.  Tenant  shall pay for all parts and
supplies  necessary  for the  proper  operation  of the HVAC  System  (and any
restoration  or  replacement  by Tenant of all or any part thereof shall be in
quality  and  class at least  equal to the  original  work or  installations);
provided,  however, that Tenant shall not alter, modify, remove or replace the
HVAC System,  or any part thereof,  without  Landlord's prior written consent.
Landlord  agrees  that  the  Existing  HVAC  Equipment  shall  be  (or  is) of
sufficient  capacity to accommodate  normal office usage and occupancy density
excluding  special  usage  areas  (i.e.,  computer  rooms,  conference  rooms,
cafeteria/lunchroom  or any  special  usage  which  subjects  a portion or the
entire Premises to a high density of office  personnel  and/or heat generating
equipment, machines or appliances).

            35.02 Without  limiting the  generality of the  foregoing,  Tenant
shall, at its own cost and expense,  (a) cause to be performed all maintenance
of the HVAC System,  including all repairs and replacements  thereto,  and (b)
commencing  as of the date upon which  Tenant  shall first occupy the Premises
for the conduct of its business,  and  thereafter  throughout  the Term of the
Lease,  maintain  in  force  and  provide  a copy of same to  Landlord  an air
conditioning  service repair and full service  maintenance  contract  covering
the HVAC  System in form  satisfactory  to Landlord  with an air  conditioning
contractor  or  servicing   organization   approved  by  Landlord.   All  such
contracts  shall  provide for the thorough  overhauling  of the HVAC System at
least once each year during the Term of this Lease and shall  expressly  state
that (i) it shall be an automatically  renewing  contract  terminable upon not
less than  thirty  (30) days prior  written  notice to the  Landlord  (sent by
certified mail,  return receipt  requested) and (ii) the contractor  providing
such  service  shall  maintain a log at the  Premises  detailing  the  service
provided  during each visit pursuant to such contract.  Tenant shall keep such
log at the  Premises  and  permit  Landlord  to  review  same  promptly  after
Landlord's  request.  The HVAC  System is and shall at all  times  remain  the
property of  Landlord,  and at the  expiration  or sooner  termination  of the
Lease,  Tenant  shall  surrender  to Landlord  the HVAC System in good working
order and  condition,  subject  to normal  wear and tear and shall  deliver to
Landlord a copy of the service  log. In the event that Tenant  fails to obtain
the  contract  required  herein or perform any of the  maintenance  or repairs
required hereunder,  Landlord shall have the right, but not the obligation, to
procure such  contract  and/or  perform any such work and charge the Tenant as
Additional  Rent hereunder the cost of same plus an  administrative  fee equal
to fifteen  percent  (15%) of such cost  which  shall be paid for by Tenant on
demand.

            35.03 Tenant   shall  pay  to   Landlord  a  fee  for   Landlord's
maintenance  and repair of the Existing HVAC Equipment (the "HVAC Repair Fee")
at the rate of  $1,200.00  per annum  which  shall be added to and  payable in
monthly  installments  at the same time and in the same manner as Fixed Annual
Rent under this Lease,  subject to future  increases as hereinafter set forth.
On each  anniversary of the  Commencement  Date of the Term of this Lease, the
HVAC Repair Fee shall be  increased  by three (3%)  percent on the HVAC Repair
Fee  payable  during the  immediately  preceding  twelve  (12)  month  period,
compounded annually.

                                   <B>ARTICLE 36

                                   <U>SHORING</U></B>

            36.01 Tenant  shall  permit  any  person  authorized  to  make  an
excavation on land adjacent to the Building  containing the Premises to do any
work within the Premises  necessary to preserve the wall of the Building  from
injury or damage,  and Tenant shall have no claim against Landlord for damages
or abatement of rent by reason thereof.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 37

                          <U>EFFECT OF CONVEYANCE, ETC.</U></B>

            37.01 If the  Building  containing  the  Premises  shall  be sold,
transferred  or leased,  or the lease thereof  transferred  or sold,  Landlord
shall be relieved of all future obligations and liabilities  hereunder and the
purchaser,  transferee  or  tenant  of the  Building  shall be  deemed to have
assumed  and  agreed  to  perform  all such  obligations  and  liabilities  of
Landlord  hereunder.  In the event of such sale,  transfer or lease,  Landlord
shall also be relieved of all existing obligations and liabilities  hereunder,
provided that the purchaser,  transferee or tenant of the Building  assumes in
writing such obligations and liabilities.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 38

                       <U>RIGHTS OF SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS</U></B>

            38.01 This  Lease  shall  bind  and  inure to the  benefit  of the
heirs,  executors,  administrators,   successors,  and,  except  as  otherwise
provided  herein,  the assigns of the parties hereto.  If any provision of any
Article  of  this  Lease  or  the   application   thereof  to  any  person  or
circumstances  shall,  to  any  extent,  be  invalid  or  unenforceable,   the
remainder of that Article,  or the application of such provision to persons or
circumstances   other  than   those  as  to  which  it  is  held   invalid  or
unenforceable,  shall not be  affected  thereby,  and each  provision  of said
Article  and of this  Lease  shall be valid  and be  enforced  to the  fullest
extent permitted by law.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 39

                                   <U>CAPTIONS</U></B>

            39.01 The captions herein are inserted only for  convenience,  and
are in no way to be construed  as a part of this Lease or as a  limitation  of
the scope of any provision of this Lease.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 40

                                   <U>BROKERS</U></B>

            40.01 Tenant  covenants,  represents  and warrants that Tenant has
had no dealings or  negotiations  with any broker or agent in connection  with
the  consummation  of this Lease  other than SL Green  Realty  Leasing LLC and
Williams  Real Estate  Co.,  Inc.  (collectively,  the  "Brokers")  and Tenant
covenants and agrees to defend,  hold harmless and indemnify Landlord from and
against any and all cost,  expense (including  reasonable  attorneys' fees) or
liability for any  compensation,  commissions or charges claimed by any broker
or agent with respect to this Lease or the negotiation thereof.

            40.02 Landlord  represents  and warrants to Tenant that it did not
consult or negotiate  with any broker,  finder,  or consultant  with regard to
the  Premises  other than the  Brokers,  and that no other  broker,  finder or
consultant  participated  with  Landlord in  procuring  this  Lease.  Landlord
hereby indemnifies and agrees to defend and hold Tenant, its agents,  servants
and employees harmless from any suit, action, proceeding,  controversy,  claim
or  demand  whatsoever  at law or in  equity  that may be  instituted  against
Tenant by anyone with whom Landlord has dealt for recovery of  compensation or
damages for procuring this Lease.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 41

                                 <U>ELECTRICITY</U></B>

            41.01 Tenant  acknowledges  and agrees that electric service shall
be supplied to the Premises on a "rent  inclusion  basis" in  accordance  with
the provisions of this Article 41.

            41.02 Electricity  and electric  service,  as used  herein,  shall
mean any element affecting the generation,  transmission,  and/or distribution
or redistribution of electricity,  including but not limited to services which
facilitate the distribution of service.

            41.03 If and so  long  as  Landlord  provides  electricity  to the
Premises on a rent inclusion  basis,  Tenant agrees that the Fixed Annual Rent
shall be  increased by the amount of the  Electricity  Rent  Inclusion  Factor
("ERIF"),  as hereinafter  defined.  Tenant  acknowledges  and agrees (i) that
the Fixed  Annual Rent  hereinabove  set forth in this Lease does not yet, but
is to  include  an  ERIF of  $3.00  per  rentable  square  foot to  compensate
Landlord for electrical wiring and other installations  necessary for, and for
its obtaining and making  available to Tenant the  redistribution  of electric
current as an additional  service,  and Tenant shall pay for Tenant's Share of
Building  electric  current (i.e., all electricity used in lighting the public
and  service  areas,  and in  operating  all the  service  facilities,  of the
Building and the parties  acknowledge  and agree that twenty  percent (20%) of
the Building's  payment to the public  utility or other service  providers for
the  purchase  of  electricity  shall be deemed  to be  payment  for  Building
electric  current)  which  shall  be paid for by  Tenant  in  accordance  with
provisions  hereof;  and (ii)  that  said  ERIF,  which  shall be  subject  to
periodic  adjustments as hereinafter  provided,  has been partially based upon
an estimate of the  Tenant's  adjusted  electrical  load,  in whatever  manner
delivered to Tenant,  which shall be deemed to be the demand  (KW),  and hours
of use  thereof,  which shall be deemed to be the energy  (KWH),  for Existing
HVAC Equipment,  personal and laptop computers,  server, ordinary lighting and
light  office  equipment  and  the  operation  of  the  usual  small  business
machines,  including  Xerox or  other  copying  machines  (such  lighting  and
equipment  are  hereinafter  called  "Ordinary   Equipment")  during  ordinary
business hours  ("Ordinary  Business  Hours") shall be deemed to mean 50 hours
per week),  with Landlord  providing an average  adjusted load of 41/2watts of
electricity  for all purposes per rentable square foot. Any  installation  and
use of  equipment  other than  Ordinary  Equipment  and/or any  adjusted  load
and/or  energy usage by Tenant in excess of the  foregoing  and the charge for
Tenant's Share of Building  electric current shall result in adjustment of the
ERIF as  hereinafter  provided.  For  purposes of this  Article,  the rentable
square foot area of the Premises shall be deemed to be 10,495 square feet.

            41.04 If the cost to Landlord of  electricity  shall have been, or
shall be,  increased  subsequent  to  February  1, 2002  (whether  such change
occurs  prior to or during the term of this  Lease),  by change in  Landlord's
electric rates or service classifications,  or electricity charges,  including
changes  in market  prices,  or by an  increase,  subsequent  to the last such
electric  rate or service  classification  change or market price  change,  in
fuel  adjustments  or charges of any kind, or by taxes,  imposed on Landlord's
electricity purchases or on Landlord's electricity redistribution,  or for any
other such reason,  then the  aforesaid  ERIF portion of the fixed annual rent
shall be  changed  in the same  percentage  as any such  change in cost due to
changes in electric  rates,  service  classifications  or market prices,  and,
also  Tenant's  payment  obligation,  for  electricity  redistribution,  shall
change  from  time  to  time  so as to  reflect  any  such  increase  in  fuel
adjustments  or  charges,  and such  taxes.  Any  such  percentage  change  in
Landlord's  cost  due  to  change  in  Landlord's  electric  rate  or  service
classifications  or  market  prices,  shall be  computed  on the  basis of the
average  consumption  of  electricity  for the  Building  for the twelve  full
months  immediately  prior to the rate  change or other such  changes in cost,
energy and demand,  and any  changed  methods of or rules on billing for same,
applied  on  a  consistent   basis  to  the  new  electric   rate  or  service
classification  or market price and to the immediately prior existing electric
rate or service  classification  or market price.  If the average  consumption
(energy and demand) for the entire  Building for said prior (12) months cannot
reasonably be applied and used with respect to changed  methods of or rules on
billing,  then the  percentage  increase  shall be  computed by the use of the
average  consumption (energy and demand) for the entire building for the first
three (3) months  after such  change,  projected to a full twelve (12) months,
so as to  reflect  the  different  seasons;  and  that  same  consumption,  so
projected,  shall be  applied to the rate  and/or  service  classification  or
market  price  which  existed  immediately  prior to the  change.  The parties
agree that a reputable,  independent  electrical  consultant firm, selected by
Landlord,   ("Landlord's   Electrical   Consultant"),   shall   determine  the
percentage change for the changes in ERIF due to Landlord's  changed costs and
the charge to Tenant for  Tenant's  Share of Building  electric  current,  and
that  Landlord's  Electrical  Consultant may from time to time make surveys in
the  Premises of the  electrical  equipment  and  fixtures and use of current.
(i) If such survey shall reflect an adjusted  electrical load in excess of 41/2
watts of electricity  for all purposes per rentable  square foot and/or energy
usage in excess of  Ordinary  Business  Hours  (each such  excess  hereinafter
called  "excess  electricity")  then the adjusted  electrical  load and/or the
hours of use  portion(s)  of the then  existing  ERIF shall be increased by an
amount which is equal to a fraction of the then existing  ERIF,  the numerator
of which is the excess  electricity  (i.e.  excess adjusted load and/or excess
usage) and the  denominator  of which is the  adjusted  load and/or the energy
usage which was the basis of the then existing ERIF.  Such fractions  shall be
determined by Landlord's  Electrical  Consultant.  The Fixed Annual Rent shall
then be  appropriately  adjusted,  effective as of the date of any such change
in adjusted  load and/or  usage,  as disclosed  by said  survey.  (ii) If such
survey shall disclose  installation and use of other than Ordinary  Equipment,
then  effective  as of the date of said  survey,  there  shall be added to the
ERIF  portion  of Fixed  Annual  Rent  (computed  and  fixed  as  hereinbefore
described)  an  additional  amount  equal to what would be paid under the SC-4
Rate I  Service  Classification  in effect  on  February  1, 2002 (and not the
time-of-day  rate  schedule)  or the  comparable  rate  schedule  (and not the
time-of-day  rate  schedule) of any utility  other than Con Ed then  providing
electrical  service to the  building as same shall be in effect on the date of
such  survey  for  such  load  and  usage of  electricity,  with the  adjusted
electrical  load  deemed to be the  demand  (KW) and the hours of use  thereof
deemed to be the energy (KWH),  as hereinbefore  provided,  (which addition to
the ERIF shall be increased by all  electricity  cost changes of Landlord,  as
hereinabove provided, from February 1, 2002 through the date of billing).

            41.05 In no  event,  whether  because  of  surveys,  rates or cost
changes,  or for any reason,  is the originally  specified  $3.00 per rentable
square  foot ERIF  portion of the fixed  annual  rent  (plus any net  increase
thereof by virtue of all electricity  rate,  service  classification or market
price changes of Landlord subsequent to February 1, 2002) to be reduced.

            41.06 The  determinations  by  Landlord's   Electrical  Consultant
shall be binding  and  conclusive  on  Landlord  and Tenant from and after the
delivery  of copies of such  determinations  to Landlord  and Tenant,  unless,
within  thirty  (30)  days  after  delivery  thereof,   Tenant  disputes  such
determination.  If Tenant so disputes the determination,  it shall, at its own
expense,  obtain from a reputable,  independent  electrical consultant its own
determinations  in accordance  with the  provisions of this Article.  Tenant's
consultant  and  Landlord's  consultant  then  shall  seek to  agree.  If they
cannot  agree  within  thirty  (30) days they shall  choose a third  reputable
electrical  consultant,  whose cost shall be shared equally by the parties, to
make  similar  determinations  which  shall be  controlling.  (If they  cannot
agree on such third  consultant  within ten (10) days,  than either  party may
apply to the  Supreme  Court in the County of New York for such  appointment.)
However, pending such controlling  determinations Tenant shall pay to Landlord
the amount of Additional  Rent or ERIF in accordance  with the  determinations
of  Landlord's  Electrical  Consultant.  If  the  controlling   determinations
differ from Landlord's Electrical Consultant,  then the parties shall promptly
make adjustment for any deficiency owed by Tenant or overage paid by Tenant.

            41.07 If any tax is  imposed  upon  Landlord's  receipt  from  the
sale,  resale or  redistribution of electricity or gas or telephone service to
Tenant by any Federal,  State, or Municipal  authority,  Tenant  covenants and
agrees that where  permitted  by law,  Tenant's  pro-rata  share of such taxes
shall be  passed on to and  included  in the bill of,  and paid by,  Tenant to
Landlord.

            41.08 At the option of Landlord,  Tenant  agrees to purchase  from
Landlord  or its agents all lamps and bulbs  used in the  Premises  and to pay
for the cost of  installation  thereof at  commercially  reasonable  rates. If
all or part of the ERIF payable in  accordance  with Section 41.03 or 41.04 of
this  Article  becomes  uncollectible  or reduced or refunded by virtue of any
law, order or regulations,  the parties agree that, at Landlord's  option,  in
lieu of submetering  Additional Rent or ERIF, and in consideration of Tenant's
use  of  the  Building's   electrical   distribution  system  and  receipt  of
redistributed  electricity  and payment by Landlord of  consultant's  fees and
other  redistribution  costs, the Fixed Annual Rental rate(s) to be paid under
this Agreement shall be increased by an "alternative  charge" which shall be a
sum equal to $3.00 per year per rentable square foot of the Premises,  changed
in  the  same  percentage  as  any  increase  in  the  cost  to  Landlord  for
electricity  for the entire Building  subsequent to February 1, 2002,  because
of  electric  rate,  service  classification  or market  price  changes,  such
percentage change to be computed as in Section 41.04 provided.

            41.09 Landlord  shall  not be  liable  to  Tenant  for any loss or
damage or expense  which Tenant may sustain or incur if either the quantity or
character  of  electric  service  is  changed  or is no  longer  available  or
suitable for Tenant's  requirements.  Tenant  covenants and agrees that at all
times its use of electric  current shall never exceed the capacity of existing
feeders  to the  Building  or  wiring  installation.  Any  riser or  risers to
supply Tenant's electrical requirements,  upon written request of Tenant, will
be  installed  by  Landlord,  at the sole cost and  expense of Tenant,  if, in
Landlord's sole judgment,  the same are necessary and will not cause permanent
damage  or  injury  to the  Building  or the  Premises  or cause  or  create a
dangerous  or  hazardous   condition  or  entail   excessive  or  unreasonable
alterations,  repairs or expense or interfere with or disturb other tenants or
occupants.  In addition to the installation of such riser or risers,  Landlord
will also at the sole cost and expense of Tenant,  install all other equipment
proper and necessary in connection  therewith  subject to the aforesaid  terms
and  conditions.  The  parties  acknowledge  that they  understand  that it is
anticipated  that electric rates,  charges,  etc., may be changed by virtue of
time-of-day rates or changes in other methods of billing,  and/or  electricity
purchases and the redistribution  thereof, and fluctuation in the market price
of  electricity,  and that  the  references  in the  foregoing  paragraphs  to
changes in methods of or rules on billing  are  intended  to include  any such
changes.  Anything  hereinabove to the contrary  notwithstanding,  in no event
is the submetering  Additional Rent or ERIF, or any "alternative  charge",  to
be less than an amount  equal to the total of  Landlord's  payments  to public
utilities  and/or other providers for the electricity  consumed by Tenant (and
any  taxes  thereon  or  on  redistribution  of  same)  plus  5%  thereof  for
transmission line loss, plus 15% thereof for other  redistribution  costs. The
Landlord  reserves  the right,  at any time upon  thirty  (30)  days'  written
notice,  to change to the  distribution of less than all the components of the
existing service to Tenant.  The Landlord  reserves the right to terminate the
furnishing of  electricity on a rent inclusion or any other basis at any time,
upon  thirty  (30) days'  written  notice to the  Tenant,  in which  event the
Tenant may make  application  directly  to the  public  utility  and/or  other
providers  for the Tenant's  entire  separate  supply of electric  current and
Landlord  shall permit its wires and  conduits,  to the extent  available  and
safely  capable,  to be used  for such  purpose,  but  only to the  extent  of
Tenant's then  authorized  load.  Any meters,  risers,  or other  equipment or
connections  necessary to enable Tenant to obtain  electric  current  directly
from such utility  and/or  other  providers  shall be installed at  Landlords'
sole cost and expense.  Only rigid conduit or  electricity  metal tubing (EMT)
will be allowed.  The Landlord,  upon the  expiration of the aforesaid  thirty
(30)  days'  written  notice to the  Tenant  may  discontinue  furnishing  the
electric  current  provided that Tenant has obtained service directly from the
public utility or other service  provider (unless the failure to do so results
from  Tenant's  failure to  promptly  apply for such  service  and  diligently
prosecute  such  application  to  completion)  but this Lease shall  otherwise
remain in full force and  effect.  If Tenant  was  provided  electricity  on a
rent inclusion basis when it was so discontinued,  then commencing when Tenant
receives such direct  service and as long as Tenant shall  continue to receive
such service,  the Fixed Annual Rent payable under this Lease shall be reduced
by the  amount  of the  ERIF  which  was  payable  immediately  prior  to such
discontinuance of electricity on a rent inclusion basis.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 42

                               <U>LEASE SUBMISSION</U></B>

            42.01 Landlord  and Tenant  agree that this Lease is  submitted to
Tenant  on the  understanding  that it shall  not be  considered  an offer and
shall not bind  Landlord  or Tenant in any way unless and until (i) Tenant has
duly executed and delivered  duplicate  originals thereof to Landlord and (ii)
Landlord has executed and delivered one of said originals to Tenant.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 43

                                  <U>INSURANCE</U></B>

            43.01.      Tenant shall not violate,  or permit the violation of,
any condition  imposed by the standard fire  insurance  policy then issued for
office buildings in the Borough of Manhattan,  City of New York, and shall not
do, or permit  anything to be done,  or keep or permit  anything to be kept in
the Premises which would subject  Landlord to any liability or  responsibility
for personal injury or death or property  damage,  or which would increase the
fire or other casualty  insurance rate on the Building or the property therein
over the rate which would  otherwise then be in effect (unless Tenant pays the
resulting  premium  as  hereinafter  provided  for) or which  would  result in
insurance  companies of good  standing  refusing to insure the building or any
of such property in amounts reasonably satisfactory to Landlord.

            43.02 Tenant  covenants  to provide  on or before  the  earlier to
occur of (i) the  Commencement  Date,  and (ii) ten (10) days from the date of
this  Lease,  and to keep in  force  during  the  term  hereof  the  following
insurance coverage which coverage shall be effective on the Commencement Date:

                  (a)   A comprehensive  policy of liability  insurance naming
Landlord and its designees as additional  insureds  protecting  Landlord,  its
designees and Tenant against any liability  whatsoever  occasioned by accident
on or about the Premises or any appurtenances  thereto. Such policy shall have
limits of liability  of not less than Three  Million  ($3,000,000.00)  Dollars
combined single limit coverage on a per occurrence basis,  including  property
damage.  Such  insurance  may be carried under a blanket  policy  covering the
Premises  and  other  locations  of  Tenant,  if any,  provided  such a policy
contains an  endorsement  (i) naming  Landlord and its designees as additional
insureds,  (ii) specifically  referencing the Premises; and (iii) guaranteeing
a minimum limit  available  for the Premises  equal to the limits of liability
required under this Lease;

                  (b)   Fire and  extended  coverage in an amount  adequate to
cover  the  cost  of   replacement   of  all  personal   property,   fixtures,
furnishings,   equipment,   improvements  and  installations  located  in  the
Premises.

            43.03 All  such   policies   shall  be  issued  by   companies  of
recognized  responsibility licensed to do business in New York State and rated
by  Best's  Insurance  Reports  or any  successor  publication  of  comparable
standing and carrying a rating of A+ VIII or better or the then  equivalent of
such rating,  and all such policies shall contain a provision whereby the same
cannot be canceled or modified unless Landlord and any additional  insured are
given at least thirty (30) days prior written notice of such  cancellation  or
modification.

            43.04 Prior to the time such  insurance  is first  required  to be
carried  by Tenant and  thereafter,  at least  fifteen  (15) days prior to the
expiration  of any such  policies,  Tenant  shall  deliver to Landlord  either
duplicate originals of the aforesaid policies or certificates  evidencing such
insurance,  together  with  evidence  of  payment  for the  policy.  If Tenant
delivers  certificates as aforesaid Tenant,  upon reasonable prior notice from
Landlord,  shall  make  available  to  Landlord,  at the  Premises,  duplicate
originals of such policies  from which  Landlord may make copies  thereof,  at
Landlord's   cost.   Tenant's  failure  to  provide  and  keep  in  force  the
aforementioned  insurance shall be regarded as a material  default  hereunder,
entitling  Landlord to exercise any or all of the remedies as provided in this
Lease in the event of  Tenant's  default.  In  addition,  in the event  Tenant
fails to provide and keep in force the  insurance  required by this Lease,  at
the times and for the durations  specified in this Lease,  Landlord shall have
the  right,  but not the  obligation,  at any time and from time to time,  and
without  notice,  to procure such  insurance  and/or pay the premiums for such
insurance  in which event  Tenant  shall repay  Landlord  within five (5) days
after demand by Landlord,  as  Additional  Rent,  all sums so paid by Landlord
and any  costs or  expenses  incurred  by  Landlord  in  connection  therewith
without  prejudice  to any other  rights and  remedies of Landlord  under this
Lease.

            43.05 Landlord  and  Tenant  shall  each  endeavor  to  secure  an
appropriate  clause in, or an endorsement upon, each fire or extended coverage
policy obtained by it and covering the Building,  the Premises or the personal
property,  fixtures  and  equipment  located  therein or thereon,  pursuant to
which the  respective  insurance  companies  waive  subrogation  or permit the
insured,  prior to any loss, to agree with a third party to waive any claim it
might have against said third party.  The waiver of  subrogation or permission
for waiver of any claim  hereinbefore  referred to shall  extend to the agents
of each party and its employees and, in the case of Tenant,  shall also extend
to all  other  persons  and  entities  occupying  or  using  the  Premises  in
accordance  with the  terms of this  Lease.  If and to the  extent  that  such
waiver or  permission  can be  obtained  only upon  payment  of an  additional
charge then,  except as provided in the  following two  paragraphs,  the party
benefiting  from the waiver or  permission  shall pay such charge upon demand,
or shall be  deemed to have  agreed  that the party  obtaining  the  insurance
coverage  in  question  shall be free of any  further  obligations  under  the
provisions hereof relating to such waiver or permission.

            43.06 In the event  that  Landlord  shall be unable at any time to
obtain  one  of the  provisions  referred  to  above  in any of its  insurance
policies, at Tenant's option,  Landlord shall cause Tenant to be named in such
policy or  policies  as one of the  insureds,  but if any  additional  premium
shall be imposed for the inclusion of Tenant as such an assured,  Tenant shall
pay such additional  premium upon demand.  In the event that Tenant shall have
been named as one of the insureds in any of Landlord's  policies in accordance
with the  foregoing,  Tenant shall endorse  promptly to the order of Landlord,
without  recourse,  any  check,  draft  or  order  for the  payment  of  money
representing  the proceeds of any such policy or any other payment growing out
of or adjusted with said policy and Tenant hereby  irrevocably  waives any and
all rights in and to such proceeds and payments  excluding  proceeds  relating
to Tenant's personalty.

            43.07 In the  event  that  Tenant  shall be  unable at any time to
obtain  one  of the  provisions  referred  to  above  in any of its  insurance
policies,  Tenant shall cause  Landlord to be named in such policy or policies
as one of the  insureds,  but if any  additional  premium shall be imposed for
the  inclusion  of  Landlord  as such an  assured,  Landlord  shall  pay  such
additional   premium   upon  demand  or  Tenant  shall  be  excused  from  its
obligations  under this  paragraph  with  respect to the  insurance  policy or
policies for which such additional premiums would be imposed.

            43.08 Subject to the foregoing  provisions  of this  Article,  and
insofar as may be permitted by the terms of the insurance  policies carried by
it, each party hereby releases the other with respect to any claim  (including
a claim for negligence)  which it might otherwise have against the other party
for loss,  damages or  destruction  with  respect to its  property  by fire or
other casualty (including rental value or business  interruption,  as the case
may be) occurring during the Term of this Lease.

            43.09 If,  by reason  of a  failure  of Tenant to comply  with the
provisions of this Lease,  the rate of fire insurance  with extended  coverage
on the  building or equipment  or other  property of Landlord  shall be higher
than it otherwise would be, Tenant shall reimburse  Landlord,  on demand,  for
that part of the premiums for fire  insurance  and extended  coverage  paid by
Landlord because of such failure on the part of Tenant.

            43.10.      Landlord  may,  from  time to time,  require  that the
amount of the insurance to be provided and  maintained by Tenant  hereunder be
increased so that the amount thereof adequately protects Landlord's  interest,
but in no event in  excess  of the  amount  that  would be  required  by other
tenants in other similar office buildings in the borough of Manhattan.

            43.11 A  schedule  or make up of  rates  for the  building  or the
Premises,  as the case may be,  issued by the New York Fire  Insurance  Rating
Organization  or other  similar  body  making  rates  for fire  insurance  and
extended coverage for the premises concerned,  shall be conclusive evidence of
the facts  therein  stated and of the  several  items and  charges in the fire
insurance rate with extended coverage then applicable to such premises.

            43.12 Each  policy  evidencing  the  insurance  to be  carried  by
Tenant  under  this  Lease  shall  contain a clause  that such  policy and the
coverage  evidenced  thereby  shall be primary  with  respect to any  policies
carried  by  Landlord,  and that any  coverage  carried by  Landlord  shall be
excess insurance.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 44

                                   <U>SIGNAGE</U></B>

            44.01 Tenant  shall be permitted to affix either sign or plaque on
or  adjacent  to the  entrance  door to the  Premises,  subject  to the  prior
written approval of Landlord which shall not be unreasonably  withheld subject
to the other  provisions  of this article,  with respect to location,  design,
size, materials,  quality, coloring, lettering and shape thereof, and subject,
also, to  compliance  by Tenant,  at its expense,  with all  applicable  legal
requirements  or  regulations.  All  such  signage  shall  be  consistent  and
compatible with the design,  aesthetics,  signage and graphics program for the
Building as  established  by Landlord.  Landlord may remove any sign installed
in violation of this provision,  and Tenant shall pay the cost of such removal
and any restoration costs.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 45

                              <U>RIGHT TO RELOCATE</U></B>

            45.01 Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in this  Lease  to the
contrary,  Landlord shall have the right to substitute in lieu of the Premises
alternative  space  in  the  Building  located  on or  above  the  10th  floor
designated by Landlord (the "Relocation  Space") effective as of the date (the
"Relocation  Effective  Date")  set  forth in a notice  given to  Tenant  (the
"Relocation  Notice").  The Relocation Space shall be reasonably comparable to
the  Premises  with respect to internal  configuration,  quality of finish and
rentable  square  foot  area  (i.e.,  plus or minus ten  (10%)  percent).  The
Relocation  Effective  Date shall not be less than ninety (90) days  following
the date upon which the  Relocation  Notice is given to  Tenant.  In the event
that  Landlord  exercises  its rights  hereunder,  (i) Tenant shall deliver to
Landlord  possession  of the  Premises on or before the  Relocation  Effective
Date vacant and broom clean,  free of all  occupancies  and  encumbrances  and
otherwise in accordance with the terms,  covenants and conditions of the Lease
as if the Relocation  Effective  Date were the expiration  date of the Term of
this Lease,  (ii) effective as of the Relocation  Effective Date, the term and
estate  hereby  granted  with  respect  to  the  Premises  originally  demised
hereunder  shall  terminate,  the  Relocation  Space shall be deemed to be the
Premises and the Fixed  Annual Rent and  Additional  Rent  payable  under this
Lease  shall be  adjusted,  if  necessary,  so as to  reflect  any  difference
between the deemed  rentable  square foot area of the  original  Premises  and
said Relocation Space; provided,  however, that in the event that the rentable
square  foot  area of said  Relocation  Space is  greater  than  the  original
Premises,   the  Fixed  Annual  Rent  and  Additional  Rent  payable  for  the
Relocation  Space  shall be  equal to the  amount  payable  hereunder  for the
Premises.

            45.02 Provided  that  Tenant is not in default  under this  Lease,
Landlord  shall (i) at  Landlord's  cost and  expense,  remove  and  reinstall
Tenants'  personal  property,  trade  fixtures and equipment in the Relocation
Space  ("Landlord's  Relocation Work") and (ii) compensate Tenant for Tenant's
actual,  reasonable,  out-of-pocket  moving and related  expenses  (including,
without limitation the reasonable fees of architects,  engineers and attorneys
and  reasonable  stationary  costs) upon Tenant's  submission of paid invoices
therefor.  Landlord shall  complete  Landlord's  Relocation  Work on or before
the Relocation  Effective Date provided that Tenant  cooperates  with Landlord
and gives Landlord full access to the Premises to facilitate  the  performance
thereof.  Landlord shall use reasonable efforts to minimize  interference with
Tenant's  normal   business   activities   within  the  Premises.   Landlord's
Relocation Work shall be performed after normal business hours or on weekends.

            45.03 Following  any  relocation   undertaken   pursuant  to  this
Article,  Tenant shall  promptly  execute and deliver an agreement  confirming
such relocation and fixing any corresponding  adjustments in Fixed Annual Rent
and Additional Rent payable under this Lease,  but any failure to execute such
an agreement by Tenant shall not affect such  relocation  and  adjustments  as
determined by Landlord.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 46

                        <U>FUTURE CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION</U></B>

            46.01 Tenant  acknowledges that the Building and the land of which
the  Premises  form a part  may  be  subjected  to  the  condominium  form  of
ownership  prior to the end of the Term of this Lease.  Tenant agrees that if,
at any time during the Term,  the  Building and the land shall be subjected to
the condominium  form of ownership,  then, this Lease and all rights of Tenant
hereunder  are and shall be subject  and  subordinate  in all  respects to any
condominium   declaration   and  any  other   documents   (collectively,   the
"Declaration")  which shall be recorded in order to convert the  Building  and
the land of which the Premises form a part to a condominium  form of ownership
in accordance  with the  provisions of Article 9-B of the Real Property Law of
the State of New York or any successor  thereto.  If any such  Declaration  is
to be  recorded,  Tenant,  upon  request  of  Landlord,  shall  enter  into an
amendment  of this Lease in such  respects as shall be necessary to conform to
such   condominiumization,    including,   without   limitation,   appropriate
adjustments  to Real  Estate  Taxes  payable  during  the  Base  Tax  Year and
Tenant's Share, as such terms are defined in Article 32 hereof.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 47

                                <U>MISCELLANEOUS</U></B>

            47.01 This Lease represents the entire  understanding  between the
parties with regard to the matters  addressed  herein and may only be modified
by   written   agreement   executed   by  all   parties   hereto.   All  prior
understandings  or  representations   between  the  parties  hereto,  oral  or
written,  with  regard to the  matters  addressed  herein  are  hereby  merged
herein.  Tenant  acknowledges that neither Landlord nor any  representative or
agent  of  Landlord  has made  any  representation  or  warranty,  express  or
implied, as to the physical  condition,  state of repair,  layout,  footage or
use of the  Premises or any matter or thing  affecting or relating to Premises
except as  specifically  set forth in this Lease.  Tenant has not been induced
by and has  not  relied  upon  any  statement,  representation  or  agreement,
whether express or implied,  not specifically set forth in this Lease.  Tenant
shall not be liable or bound in any manner by any oral or  written  statement,
broker's  "set-up","  representation,  agreement or information  pertaining to
the  Premises,  the  Building or this  Agreement  furnished by any real estate
broker,  agent,  servant,  employee or other person,  unless  specifically set
forth herein,  and no rights are or shall be acquired by Tenant by implication
or otherwise unless expressly set forth herein.  This Lease shall be construed
without  regard  to any  presumption  or  other  rule  requiring  construction
against the party causing this agreement to be drafted.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 48

                             <U>COMPLIANCE WITH LAW</U></B>

            48.01 If, at any time  during the Term  hereof,  Landlord  expends
any sums for  alterations or  improvements  to the Building which are required
to be made pursuant to any law, ordinance or governmental  regulation,  Tenant
shall pay to Landlord,  as Additional Rent, Tenant's Share of such cost within
ten (10) days after demand therefor;  provided,  however,  that if the cost of
such  alteration or  improvement is one which is required to be amortized over
a period of time  pursuant  to  applicable  governmental  regulations,  Tenant
shall pay to Landlord,  as Additional  Rent,  during each year in which occurs
any  part of the  Term,  Tenant's  Share of the cost  thereof  amortized  on a
straight line basis over an  appropriate  period,  but not more than three (3)
years.  Notwithstanding  anything to the  contrary  contained  herein,  in the
event that the  requirement  for the  performance  of any such  alteration  of
improvement is  attributable to the actions,  installations,  use or manner of
use of the Premises by Tenant,  then in such event Tenant shall be responsible
to pay the entire cost imposed by Landlord with respect to such  alteration of
improvement;  provided,  further, however, that the Additional Rent payable by
Tenant under this Section  48.01 in any single  calendar  year during the Term
hereof shall not exceed the sum of $10,495.00.


                                   <B>ARTICLE 49

                               <U>EXTENSION OPTION</U></B>

            49.01 Provided  that  Tenant is not in  default  under  this Lease
beyond the grace period  applicable  to such  default,  if any, at the time of
exercise of its option under this Section 49 or on the  Expiration  Date,  and
the Tenant  first  named  herein or any  permitted  successor  in  interest or
affiliate of Tenant (collectively,  "Named Tenant") shall occupy not less than
eighty  (80%)  percent of the entire  Premises for the conduct of its business
on the Expiration Date, the Named Tenant shall have the right (the "Extension
Right") to extend the term of the Lease  with  respect to the entire  Premises
for a single one (1) period (the "Extension  Term").  The Extension Term shall
commence  on the day after the  Expiration  Date (the  "Extension  Term Comm.
Date")  and shall  expire on the first  (1st)  anniversary  of the  Expiration
Date,  unless the  Extension  Term shall  sooner  end  pursuant  to any of the
terms,  covenants or conditions  of the Lease or pursuant to Law.  Tenant must
give Landlord written notice of Tenant's  intention to exercise such option no
later than two hundred seventy (270) days years prior to the Expiration  Date,
as to which date time is of the  essence,  and upon the giving of such notice,
subject to the  provisions  of the first  sentence of this  Section  49.01 and
Subsection  (vi)  hereof,  the term of the  Lease  shall be  extended  without
execution  or delivery of any other or further  document,  with the same force
and  effect as if the  Extension  Term had  originally  been  included  in the
original  term of the Lease.  All of the terms,  covenants  and  conditions of
the Lease shall  continue in full force and effect during the Extension  Term,
including items of Additional  Rent and escalation  which shall remain payable
on the terms  herein set forth  (provided,  however,  that the  provisions  of
Sections  3.02 and 22.02 hereof shall not be  applicable  during the Extension
Term) and Tenant  shall have no further  right to extend the term of the Lease
for any reason.

            (ii)  The fixed  annual  rent  payable by Tenant for the  Premises
during  the  Extension  Term  shall be the  fair  market  rental  value of the
Premises  based upon the criteria set forth in subsection  (v) of this Article
(the  "FMRV"),  determined  as of the  Expiration  Date.  The  FMRV  shall  be
determined as follows:

            (1)   Nine (9) months  before  the  Expiration  Date as  initially
herein set forth,  Landlord and Tenant  shall  commence  negotiations  in good
faith to attempt to agree upon the FMRV.  If Landlord and Tenant  cannot reach
agreement by seven (7) months before the Expiration Date,  Landlord and Tenant
shall, no later than six (6) months before the Expiration  Date, each select a
reputable, qualified,  independent,  licensed real estate broker with at least
ten (10) years  experience in office leasing in midtown  Manhattan,  having an
office in New York County and familiar  with the rentals then being charged in
the Building and in buildings of  comparable  quality and character in midtown
Manhattan  ("Midtown")  (such  brokers  are  referred  to,  respectively,   as
"Landlord's  Broker" and "Tenant's  Broker"),  who shall confer promptly after
their  selection by Landlord and Tenant and shall  exercise good faith efforts
to attempt to agree upon the FMRV.  If Landlord's  Broker and Tenant's  Broker
cannot reach agreement by four (4) months prior to the Expiration  Date, then,
within twenty (20) days  thereafter,  they shall designate a third  reputable,
qualified,  independent,  licensed  real estate  broker with at least ten (10)
years experience in office leasing in midtown  Manhattan,  having an office in
New York  County and  familiar  with the  rentals  then  being  charged in the
Building and in comparable  buildings in Midtown (the  "Independent  Broker").
Upon failure of  Landlord's  Broker and Tenant's  Broker  timely to agree upon
the designation of the Independent  Broker,  then the Independent Broker shall
be appointed by the  President of the Real Estate Board of New York,  Inc., or
the successor thereto,  upon ten (10) days notice.  Within ten (10) days after
such  appointment,  Landlord's  Broker and Tenant's Broker shall each submit a
letter to the Independent Broker, with a copy to Landlord and Tenant,  setting
forth  such  broker's   estimate  of  the  FMRV  and  the  rationale  used  in
determining  it  (respectively,  "Landlord's  Broker's  Letter" and "Tenant's
Broker's Letter").

            (2)   If the  estimates set forth in  Landlord's  Broker's  Letter
and Tenant's  Broker's  Letter  differ by five (5%) percent per annum or less,
then the FMRV shall not be determined by the Independent  Broker, and the FMRV
shall be the average of the estimates set forth in Landlord's  Broker's Letter
and  Tenant's  Broker's  Letter.  If the  estimates  set  forth in  Landlord's
Broker's  Letter and Tenant's  Broker's  Letter  differ by more than five (5%)
percent per annum,  the Independent  Broker shall conduct such  investigations
and hearings as he or she may deem  appropriate  and shall,  within sixty (60)
days after the date of his or her appointment,  choose either the estimate set
forth in  Landlord's  Broker's  Letter or the  estimate  set forth in Tenant's
Broker's  Letter to be the FMRV and such choice shall be binding upon Landlord
and Tenant.  Landlord  and Tenant  shall each pay the fees and expenses of its
respective  broker.  The fees and expenses of the Independent  Broker shall be
shared equally by Landlord and Tenant.

            (iii) If the Extension Term commences prior to a determination  of
the Fixed Rent for the Extension Term as herein  provided,  then the amount to
be paid by Tenant on account of Fixed Rent until such  determination  has been
made shall be the greater of the  Escalated  Rent or the estimate set forth in
Landlord's  Broker's  Letter.  After the Fixed Rent during the Extension  Term
has been determined as aforesaid,  any amounts  theretofore  paid by Tenant to
Landlord  on  account  of Fixed  Rent in excess of the amount of Fixed Rent as
finally  determined  shall be credited by  Landlord  against the next  ensuing
monthly Fixed Rent payable by Tenant to Landlord.

            (iv)  Promptly after the Fixed Rent has been determined,  Landlord
and Tenant shall execute,  acknowledge and deliver an agreement  setting forth
the Fixed Rent for the Extension  Term, as finally  determined,  provided that
the failure of the parties to do so shall not affect their  respective  rights
and obligations hereunder.

            (v)   The FMRV shall be the fair market  rental  value,  as of the
Expiration Date, of space comparable to the Premises in Midtown  applicable to
a party  renting  such space on a renewal  basis  taking into account that the
leasehold  improvements  contained  therein were designed and  constructed by,
and of  particular  value to,  the Named  Tenant for its  business  operations
therein.

            (vi)  Notwithstanding  anything to the contrary  contained in this
Article,  Landlord shall have the right, in its sole discretion,  to waive the
conditions to the  effectiveness  of Tenant's  exercise of its Extension Right
set forth in  subsection  (i) of this Article 49 without  thereby  waiving any
default by Tenant set forth in Paragraph (i) of this Article  without  thereby
waiving any default by Tenant,  in which event (i) the term of the Lease shall
be extended without  execution or delivery of any other or further document in
accordance  with the provisions of this Article with the same force and effect
as if the  Extension  Term had  originally  been  included  in the term of the
Lease, and (ii) Landlord shall be entitled to all of the remedies  provided by
this Lease and at law with respect to any such default by Tenant.


            IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the said Landlord,  and the Tenant have duly
executed this Lease as of the day and year first above written.

                                      SLG GRAYBAR SUBLEASE LLC, a New York
                                      limited liability company, Landlord

                                      By:    SLG Graybar Sublease Corp., a
                                      New York corporation, its Managing
                                      Member

                                      By:    /s/Gerard Nocera
                                      Title: Executive Vice President



Witness:

- --------------------------
Name:
Title:                                MEDIX RESOURCES, INC., as Tenant

                                      By:    /s/John R. Prufeta
                                      Title: President &amp; CEO

Witness:

Name:       /s/Gary L. Smith
Title:            Executive Vice President &amp; Chief Financial Officer



                                   <B>ARTICLE 50

                            <U>RULES AND REGULATIONS</U>
                          <U>MADE A PART OF THIS LEASE</U></B>

            1. No animals,  birds,  bicycles or vehicles shall be brought into
or kept in the Premises.  The Premises shall not be used for  manufacturing or
commercial  repairing  or for sale or display of  merchandise  or as a lodging
place, or for any immoral or illegal  purpose,  nor shall the Premises be used
for a public  stenographer  or  typist;  barber  or  beauty  shop;  telephone,
secretarial  or  messenger  service;  employment,  travel or  tourist  agency;
school or classroom;  commercial  document  reproduction;  or for any business
other than specifically  provided for in the Tenant's lease.  Tenant shall not
cause or permit in the Premises  any  disturbing  noises  which may  interfere
with occupants of this or neighboring Buildings,  any cooking or objectionable
odors,  or any nuisance of any kind, or any  inflammable  or explosive  fluid,
chemical or  substance.  Canvassing,  soliciting  and peddling in the Building
are prohibited, and each tenant shall cooperate so as to prevent the same.

            2. The toilet  rooms and other water  apparatus  shall not be used
for any  purposes  other than those for which  they were  constructed,  and no
sweepings,  rags,  ink,  chemicals  or other  unsuitable  substances  shall be
thrown  therein.  Tenant  shall not place  anything  out of doors,  windows or
skylights,  or into  hallways,  stairways  or  elevators,  nor  place  foot or
objects  on outside  window  sills.  Tenant  shall not  obstruct  or cover the
halls,  stairways  and  elevators,  or use them  for any  purpose  other  than
ingress  and  egress  to or  from  Tenant's  Premises,  nor  shall  skylights,
windows,  doors and transoms  that reflect or admit light into the Building be
covered or  obstructed  in any way. All drapes and blinds  installed by Tenant
on any  exterior  window of the Premises  shall  conform in style and color to
the Building standard.

            3.  Tenant  shall not place a load upon any floor of the  Premises
in excess of the load per square  foot which such floor was  designed to carry
and which is allowed by law.  Landlord  reserves  the right to  prescribe  the
weight and position of all safes,  file  cabinets and filing  equipment in the
Premises.  Business  machines  and  mechanical  equipment  shall be placed and
maintained by Tenant,  at Tenant's expense,  only with Landlord's  consent and
in  settings  approved by Landlord  to control  weight,  vibration,  noise and
annoyance.  Smoking or carrying  lighted  cigars,  pipes or  cigarettes in the
elevators of the Building is prohibited.

            4.  Tenant  shall  not move any heavy or bulky  materials  into or
out  of  the  Building  or  make  or  receive   large   deliveries  of  goods,
furnishings,  equipment  or  other  items  without  Landlord's  prior  written
consent,  and then only during such hours and in such manner as Landlord shall
approve and in accordance  with Landlord's  rules and  regulations  pertaining
thereto.  If any  material or  equipment  requires  special  handling,  tenant
shall employ only persons holding a Master  Rigger's  License to do such work,
and  all  such  work  shall  comply  with  all  legal  requirements.  Landlord
reserves  the right to inspect  all freight to be brought  into the  Building,
and to exclude  any  freight  which  violates  any rule,  regulation  or other
provision of this Lease.

            5. No sign,  advertisement,  notice or thing  shall be  inscribed,
painted or  affixed on any part of the  Building,  without  the prior  written
consent of Landlord.  Landlord may remove  anything  installed in violation of
this  provision,  and  Tenant  shall  pay the  cost of  such  removal  and any
restoration   costs.   Interior  signs  on  doors  and  directories  shall  be
inscribed or affixed by Landlord at Tenant's  expense.  Landlord shall control
the  color,  size,  style  and  location  of  all  signs,  advertisements  and
notices.  No  advertising  of any kind by Tenant shall refer to the  Building,
unless first approved in writing by Landlord.

            6. No article  shall be fastened to, or holes  drilled or nails or
screws  driven  into,  the  ceilings,  walls,  doors or other  portions of the
Premises, nor shall any part of the Premises be painted,  papered or otherwise
covered, or in any way marked or broken,  without the prior written consent of
Landlord.

            7. No existing  locks shall be changed,  nor shall any  additional
locks or  bolts of any kind be  placed  upon  any door or  window  by  Tenant,
without the prior  written  consent of  Landlord.  Two (2) sets of keys to all
exterior  and  interior  locks  shall  be  furnished  to  Landlord  .  At  the
termination  of this Lease,  Tenant shall deliver to Landlord all keys for any
portion of the Premises or Building.  Before leaving the Premises at any time,
Tenant shall close all windows and close and lock all doors.

            8. No Tenant  shall  purchase  or obtain  for use in the  Premises
any spring water,  ice, towels,  food,  bootblacking,  barbering or other such
service  furnished  by any  company or person not  approved by  Landlord.  Any
necessary  exterminating  work in the  Premises  shall  be  done  at  Tenant's
expense,  at such times,  in such manner and by such company as Landlord shall
require.  Landlord reserves the right to exclude from the Building,  from 6:00
p.m. to 8:00 a.m., and at all hours on Sunday and legal holidays,  all persons
who do not present a pass to the Building  signed by Landlord.  Landlord  will
furnish passes to all persons  reasonably  designated by Tenant.  Tenant shall
be  responsible  for the acts of all  persons  to whom  passes  are  issued at
Tenant's request.

            9.  Whenever  Tenant shall submit to Landlord any plan,  agreement
or other  document for  Landlord's  consent or approval,  Tenant agrees to pay
Landlord as Additional  Rent, on demand,  an  administrative  fee equal to the
sum of the reasonable fees of any architect,  engineer or attorney employed by
Landlord  to  review  said  plan,   agreement  or  document   and   Landlord's
administrative costs for same.

            10. The use in the Premises of  auxiliary  heating  devices,  such
as portable  electric  heaters,  heat lamps or other devices  whose  principal
function  at  the  time  of  operation  is  to  produce  space   heating,   is
prohibited.

            11.  Tenant  shall keep all doors from the hallway to the Premises
closed at all times  except  for use during  ingress  to and  egress  from the
Premises.   Tenant  acknowledges  that  a  violation  of  the  terms  of  this
paragraph may also  constitute a violation of codes,  rules or  regulations of
governmental  authorities having or asserting  jurisdiction over the Premises,
and Tenant  agrees to indemnify  Landlord from any fines,  penalties,  claims,
action or increase in fire  insurance  rates which might result from  Tenant's
violation of the terms of this paragraph.

            12.   Tenant  shall  be   permitted  to  maintain  an   "in-house"
messenger or delivery service within the Premises,  provided that Tenant shall
require that any messengers in its employ affix  identification  to the breast
pocket of their outer  garment,  which shall bear the  following  information:
name of Tenant,  name of employee and  photograph of the employee.  Messengers
in Tenant's  employ shall  display  such  identification  at all time.  In the
event that Tenant or any agent,  servant or employee of Tenant,  violates  the
terms of this  paragraph,  Landlord  shall be entitled to  terminate  Tenant's
permission  to maintain  within the  Premises  in-house  messenger or delivery
service upon written notice to Tenant.

            13.  Tenant  will  be  entitled  to  three  (3)  listings  on  the
Building lobby  directory  board,  without  charge.  Any additional  directory
listing (if space is available),  or any change in a prior  listing,  with the
exception  of a  deletion,  will be  subject  to a  fourteen  ($14.00)  dollar
service charge, payable as Additional Rent.

            14.  In  case  of  any  conflict  or  inconsistency   between  any
provisions  of this Lease and any of the rules and  regulations  as originally
or as hereafter adopted, the provisions of this Lease shall control.



<PAGE>


                                  <B><U>EXHIBIT A</U></B>

    [Not included since both parties agreed that for identification of the
   premises, reference is made to the architectural plan showing the office
            layout, which is not included in this lease document.]

<PAGE>


                                  <B><U>EXHIBIT B</U></B>

      Tenant  shall  pay  Fixed   Annual  Rent  for  the   Premises   (without
electricity) at the following rates per annum:


      a)    Two  Hundred  Eighty  Three  Thousand  Three  Hundred  Sixty  Five
            ($283,365.00)  Dollars  per annum  ($23,613.75  per month) for the
            period commencing on February 1, 2002 through January31, 2003;

      b)    Two   Hundred   Eighty  Nine   Thousand   Thirty  Two  and  36/100
            ($289,032.36)  Dollars  per annum  ($24,086.03  per month) for the
            period commencing February 1, 2003 through January 31, 2004; and

      c)    Two  Hundred   Ninety  Four  Thousand   Eight   Hundred   Thirteen
            ($294,813.00)  Dollars  per annum  ($24,567.75  per month) for the
            period commencing February 1, 2004 through January 31, 2005.



<PAGE>

                                  <B><U>EXHIBIT C</U>


                           <U>CLEANING SPECIFICATIONS</U></B>



A)    Carpet sweep <U>ENERAL CLEANING - NIGHTLY</U>

- -     Dust sweep all stone, ceramic tile, marble terrazzo, asphalt tile,
      linoleum, rubber, vinyl and other types of flooring

- -     all carpets and rugs four (4) times per week

- -     Vacuum clean all carpets and rugs, once (1) per week

- -     Police all private stairways and keep in clean condition

- -     Empty and clean all wastepaper baskets, ash trays and receptacles;  damp
      dust as necessary

- -     Clean all cigarette urns and replace sand or water as necessary

- -     Remove all normal  wastepaper and tenant rubbish to a designated area in
      the  premises.  (Excluding  cafeteria  waste,  bulk  materials,  and all
      special materials such as old desks, furniture, etc.)

- -     Dust all furniture, and window sills as necessary

- -     Dust clean all glass furniture tops

- -     Dust all chair rails, trim and similar objects as necessary

- -     Dust all baseboards as necessary

- -     Wash clean all water fountains

- -     Keep locker and service closets in clean and orderly condition

B)    <U>LAVATORIES - NIGHTLY (EXCLUDING PRIVATE &amp; EXECUTIVE LAVATORIES)</U>

- -     Sweep and mop all flooring

- -     Wipe  clean  all  mirrors,  powder  shelves  and  brightwork,  including
      flushometers, piping toilet seat hinges

- -     Wash and disinfect all basin, bowls and urinals

- -     Wash both sides of all toilet seats

- -     Dust all partitions, tile walls, dispensers and receptacles

- -     Empty and clean paper towel and sanitary disposal receptacles

- -     Fill  toilet  tissue  holders,  soap  dispensers  and towel  dispensers;
      materials to be furnished by Landlord

- -     Remove all wastepaper and refuse to designated area in the premises

C)    <U>LAVATORIES - PERIODIC CLEANING (EXCLUDES PRIVATE &amp; EXECUTIVE LAVATORIES</U>

- -     Machine scrub flooring as necessary

- -     Wash all  partitions,  tile  walls,  and enamel  surfaces  periodically,
      using proper disinfectant when necessary


D)    <U>DAY SERVICES - DUTIES OF THE DAY PORTERS</U>

- -     Police ladies' restrooms and lavatories, keeping them in clean condition

- -     Fill toilet dispensers; materials to be furnished by Landlord

- -     Fill sanitary napkin dispensers; materials to be furnished by Landlord

E)    <U>SCHEDULE OF CLEANING</U>

- -     Upon completion of the nightly chores, all lights shall be turned off,
      windows closed, doors locked and offices left in a neat and orderly
      condition

- -     All day, nightly and periodic cleaning services as listed herein, to be
      done five nights each week, Monday through Friday, except Union and
      Legal Holidays

- -     All windows from the 2nd floor to the roof will be cleaned inside out
      quarterly, weather permitting


</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>exh21.htm
<TEXT>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
form-10k_123101
</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<PRE>



                                                                      Exhibit 21
                                                                      ----------
                               MEDIX RESOURCES, INC.

Subsidiaries (All incorporated in Colorado)

National Care Resources - New York, Inc. (inactive)
National Care Resources-Colorado, Inc. (inactive)
National Care Resources-Texas, Inc. (inactive)
TherAmerica Inc. (inactive)
Cymedix Lynx Corporation
JJ Care Resources, Inc. (inactive)



</PRE>

</BODY>
</HTML>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>exh23.htm
<TEXT>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>
form-10k_123101
</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY>
<PRE>


                          <B>INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT</B>




We consent to the  incorporation  by reference in  Registration  Statements  No.
333-32308 and 333-85483 of Medix  Resources,  Inc. on Forms S-3 and Registration
Statements  No.  333-31684,  333-57558  and 333-73578 on Forms S-8 of our report
dated March 19,  2002,  appearing  in this  annual  report on Form 10-K of Medix
Resources, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2001.




                                          /s/Ehrhardt Keefe Steiner &amp; Hottman PC
                                             Ehrhardt Keefe Steiner &amp; Hottman PC

March 29, 2002
Denver, Colorado

</PRE>
</BODY>
</HTML>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
