-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 DFPj5FKMbgWyg+2aV4jDgvDLZ9uJjeMkVOkCve52R7rrfmxv3u/e3jM6a4ucaUpG
 jnQ1KUs8kp0DZFcKdW/wlA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001169232-06-001442.txt : 20060309
<SEC-HEADER>0001169232-06-001442.hdr.sgml : 20060309
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060309122301
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001169232-06-001442
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051230
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060309
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060309

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			TECHNITROL INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000096763
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC [3679]
		IRS NUMBER:				231292472
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			PA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-05375
		FILM NUMBER:		06675267

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1210 NORTHBROOK DR
		STREET 2:		SUITE 470
		CITY:			TREVOSE
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			19053
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2153552900

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1210 NORTHBROOK DR
		STREET 2:		STE 470
		CITY:			TREVOSE
		STATE:			PA
		ZIP:			19053
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>d67336_10-k.txt
<DESCRIPTION>ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>

                                  UNITED STATES
                        SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

[X]   Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
      Act of 1934 For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2005

                                       or

[ ]   Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934 For the transition period from _______________ to
      _______________

      Commission File No. 1-5375


                                     [LOGO]

                                TECHNITROL, INC.
               (Exact name of registrant as specified in Charter)

          PENNSYLVANIA                               23-1292472
    (State of Incorporation)              (IRS Employer Identification Number)

          1210 Northbrook Drive, Suite 470, Trevose, Pennsylvania 19053
         (Address of principal executive offices)            (Zip Code)
        Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 215-355-2900

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
          Title of each class                  Name of each Exchange on which registered
          -------------------                  -----------------------------------------
<S>                                                     <C>
Common Stock par value $0.125 per share                 New York Stock Exchange
Common Stock Purchase Rights                            New York Stock Exchange
</TABLE>

Indicate by check mark if the  registrant is a well-known  seasoned  issuer,  as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate  by  check  mark if the  registrant  is not  required  to file  reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes [ ] No [X]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2)  has  been  subject  to the  filing
requirements for at least the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate by checkmark  whether the registrant is a large  accelerated  filer, an
accelerated  filer, or a non-accelerated  filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). Large accelerated  filer [ ] Accelerated filer [X]  Non-accelerated  filer
[ ]

Indicate by check mark whether the  registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes [ ] No [X]

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by  non-affiliates as of July 1,
2005 is $562,085,000  computed by reference to the closing price on the New York
Stock Exchange on such date.

                                                  Number of shares outstanding
              Title of each class                        March 3, 2006
              -------------------                        -------------
    Common stock par value $0.125 per share                40,529,151

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be used in connection
with the registrant's 2006 Annual Shareholders Meeting are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this Form 10-K where indicated.


                                        1
<PAGE>

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
PART I                                                                                                         PAGE
<S>         <C>                                                                                                 <C>
Item 1.     Business                                                                                              3
Item 1a.    Risk Factors                                                                                          8
Item 1b.    Unresolved Staff Comments                                                                            14
Item 2.     Properties                                                                                           15
Item 3.     Legal Proceedings                                                                                    16
Item 4.     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders                                                  16

PART II

Item 5.     Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters                                17
Item 6.     Selected Financial Data                                                                              18
Item 7.     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations                19
Item 7a.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk                                           30
Item 8.     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                                                          32
Item 9.     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure                 32
Item 9a.    Controls and Procedures                                                                              32
Item 9b.    Other Matters                                                                                        34

PART III

Item 10.    Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant                                                   35
Item 11.    Executive Compensation                                                                               35
Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters       35
Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                                                       36
Item 14.    Principal Accounting Fees and Services                                                               36

PART IV

Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule                                                            37
Exhibits                                                                                                         65
Signatures                                                                                                       69
</TABLE>


                                        2
<PAGE>

                                     Part I

Item 1  Business

General

      Technitrol, Inc. is a global producer of precision-engineered electronic
components and electrical contact products and materials. We sometimes refer to
Technitrol as "we" or "our". We believe we are a leading global producer of
these products and materials in the primary markets we serve, based on our
estimates of the size of our primary markets in annual revenues and our share of
those markets relative to our competitors. Our electronic components are used in
virtually all types of electronic products to manage and regulate electronic
signals and power. Electrical contact products and materials are used in any
device in which the continuation or interruption of electrical currents is
necessary. In each case, our products are critical to the functioning of the end
product.

      Our world-class design and manufacturing capabilities, together with the
breadth of our product offerings, provides us with a competitive advantage that
enables us to anticipate and deliver highly-customized solutions for our
customers' product needs. In addition, our global presence enables us to
participate in many relevant product and geographic markets and provides us with
proximity to our global customer base. This allows us to better understand and
more easily satisfy our customers' unique design and product requirements.

      We operate our business in two distinct segments: the electronic
components segment, which operates under the name Pulse, and the electrical
contact products segment, which operates under the name AMI Doduco. We refer to
these segments as ECS or Pulse, and ECPS or AMI Doduco, respectively.

      We incorporated in Pennsylvania on April 10, 1947 and we are headquartered
in Trevose, PA. Our mailing address is 1210 Northbrook Drive, Suite 470,
Trevose, PA 19053-8406, and our telephone number is 215-355-2900. Our website is
www.technitrol.com.

Pulse

      Pulse designs and manufactures a wide variety of highly-customized
electronic components and, through a majority-owned subsidiary, connector
products. Many of these components filter out radio frequency interference,
adjust and ensure proper current and voltage, capture wireless communication
signals and activate certain automotive functions. These products are often
referred to as chokes, inductors, filters, transformers, antennas and coils.
Pulse sells its products to primarily multinational original equipment
manufacturers, contract manufacturers and distributors.

      Pulse's products are used in a broad array of industries, including:

            o     consumer electronics;

            o     enterprise networking;

            o     military/aerospace;

            o     power conversion;

            o     wireless terminals, such as handsets;

            o     telecommunications; and

            o     automotive.

      Representative end products that use Pulse's components include:

            o     broadband access equipment including cable modems  and digital
                  subscriber line, or DSL, devices for telephone  central office
                  and home use;

            o     Ethernet switches;

            o     military/aerospace navigation and weapon guidance systems;

            o     power supplies;

            o     routers;

            o     televisions and DVD players;

            o     laptop computers;

            o     video game consoles;

            o     voice over Internet equipment;

            o     terminal devices, primarily handsets; and

            o     automotive  subassemblies, including  ignition coils and other
                  automotive coils.


                                        3
<PAGE>

      Pulse's products are generally characterized by relatively short life
cycles and rapid technological change, allowing us to utilize our design and
engineering expertise to meet our customers' constantly evolving needs. We
believe that the industries served by Pulse have been, and will continue to be,
characterized by ongoing product innovation that will drive the growth in the
passive magnetics-based electronic components industry. We sometimes refer to
the Pulse business, excluding products made by factories which we acquired in
the Eldor acquisition in 2003, the Full Rise Electronic Co., Ltd. ("FRE")
acquisition in 2004, the LK acquisition in 2005 and the ERA Group acquisition in
2006, as the legacy business of Pulse, or "Pulse legacy".

      Pulse generated $361.6 million, or 58.7% of our revenues, for the year
ended December 30, 2005, and $320.2 million, or 57.0% of our revenues, for the
year ended December 31, 2004. Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
contains additional segment information.

AMI Doduco

      AMI Doduco is the only global manufacturer which produces a full array of
precious metal electrical contact products that range from materials used in the
fabrication of electrical contacts to completed contact subassemblies. Contact
products complete or interrupt electrical circuits in virtually every electrical
device. AMI Doduco provides its customers with a broad array of highly
engineered products and tools designed to meet unique customer needs. AMI Doduco
sells products primarily to multinational original equipment manufacturers.

      AMI Doduco's products are used in a broad array of industries, including:

      o     appliance;

      o     automotive;

      o     residential and non-residential construction circuitry;

      o     commercial and industrial controls;

      o     electric power distribution; and

      o     telephone equipment.

      Representative end products that use AMI Doduco's products include:

      o     electrical circuit breakers;

      o     motor and temperature controls;

      o     power substations;

      o     sensors;

      o     switches and relays;

      o     telephone equipment; and

      o     wiring devices.

      AMI Doduco's products are generally characterized by longer life cycles
and slower technological change than those of Pulse. We believe that
technological developments in some of the industries served by AMI Doduco,
particularly in the electric power, appliance and automotive industries, along
with opportunities arising from customer outsourcing and consolidation of the
electrical contact industry, may present attractive growth opportunities for AMI
Doduco.

      In the second quarter of 2005, we received approximately $6.7 million for
the sale of AMI Doduco's bimetal and metal cladding operations. We have
reflected the results of the bimetal and metal cladding operations as
discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for all
periods presented. Accordingly, historical statements of operations amounts
included in the Form 10-K have been restated to reflect the discontinued
operation.

      AMI Doduco generated $254.8 million, or 41.3% of our revenues, for the
year ended December 30, 2005, and $241.1 million, or 43.0% of our revenues, for
the year December 31, 2004. Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
contains additional segment information.


                                        4
<PAGE>

Products

         Pulse designs and manufactures a wide array of electronic components.
These products are highly-customized to address our customers' needs. The
following table contains a list of some of Pulse's key products:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Primary Products                        Function                             Application
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>                                  <C>
Discrete Filter or Choke           Separates high and low frequency     Network switches, routers, hubs and
                                   signals                              personal computers
                                                                        Phone, fax and alarm systems used
                                                                        with digital subscriber lines, or DSL
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Filtered Connector, which          Removes interference, or  noise,     Local area networks, or LANs, and
combines a filter with a           from circuitry and connects          wide area networks, or WANs,
connector and stand alone          electronic applications              equipment for personal computers and
connector products                                                      video game consoles
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Inductor/chip inductor             Regulates electrical current under   AC/DC & DC/DC power supplies
                                   conditions of varying load           Mobile phones and portable devices
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Power Transformer                  Modifies circuit voltage             AC/DC & DC/DC power supplies
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Signal Transformer                 Limits distortion of signal as it    Analog circuitry
                                   passes from one medium to another    Military/aerospace navigation and
                                                                        weapon guidance systems
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Flyback Transformer                Generates high voltages to           Televisions
                                   illuminate cathode ray picture
                                   tubes
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Internal handset antenna and       Captures communications signals in   Cell phones, other mobile terminal
handset antenna modules            mobile handsets, personal digital    and information devices
                                   assistants and notebook computers
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ignition coil, other automotive    Powers ignition sparks, door         Automotive systems management
and keyless entry coils            locks, transmissions, mirrors and
                                   brakes
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      AMI Doduco designs and manufactures a wide array of contact materials,
parts and completed contact subassemblies. The following table contains a list
of some of AMI Doduco's key products:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Primary Products                        Function                             Application
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>                                  <C>
Contact prematerial such as wire   Raw materials                        Made into our customers' and
and metal tapes                                                         competitors' electrical contact parts
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Electrical contact parts, either   Complete or interrupt an electrical  Electrical switches, relays, circuit
discrete or affixed to precision   circuit                              breakers and motor controls
stamped parts
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Component subassemblies            Integrate contact with precision     Sensors and control devices
                                   stampings and plastic housings
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

      Within each segment, our primary products are similar in design, material
content, production process, application and customer base. We continually
introduce new or improved products in response to customers' needs and changes
within the markets served.

Sales, Marketing and Distribution

      Pulse and AMI Doduco sell products predominantly through separate
worldwide direct sales forces. Given the highly technical nature of our
customers' needs, our direct salespeople typically team up with members of our
engineering staff to discuss a sale with a customer's purchasing and engineering
personnel. During the sales process, there is close interaction between our
engineers and those in our customers' organizations. This interaction extends
throughout a product's life cycle, engendering strong customer relationships. As
of December 30, 2005, Pulse had approximately 80 salespeople and 19 sales
offices worldwide and AMI Doduco had approximately 31 salespeople and 9 sales
offices worldwide.

      We provide technical and sales support for our direct and indirect sales
force. We believe that our coordinated sales effort provides a high level of
market penetration and efficient coverage of our customers on a cost-effective
basis.


                                        5
<PAGE>

Customers and End Markets

      We sell our products and services to original equipment manufacturers,
which design, build and market end-user products. Pulse also sells its products
to contract equipment manufacturers. We sometimes refer to original equipment
manufacturers as "OEMs" and contract equipment manufacturers as "CEMs." CEMs
contract with OEMs to manufacture the OEM's products. Many OEMs use CEMs
primarily or exclusively to build their products. Nonetheless, OEMs generally
control the decision as to which component designs best meet their needs.
Accordingly, we consider OEMs to be customers for our products even if they
purchase our products through CEMs or independent distributors. In order to
maximize our sales opportunities, Pulse's engineering and sales teams also
maintain close relationships with CEMs and distributors. We also sell to
independent distributors, which sell components and materials to both OEMs and
CEMs.

      No customer of either Pulse or AMI Doduco accounted for more than 10% of
our consolidated net sales for the years ended December 30, 2005, December 31,
2004 or the year ended December 26, 2003. Sales to our ten largest customers
accounted for 34.7% of net sales for the year ended December 30, 2005 and 32.8%
of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2004. On a pro forma basis for
2005, had the acquisition of LK Products Oy occurred on January 1, 2005, then
one customer would have accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net
sales. This customer is a major cell phone manufacturer.

      An increasing percentage of our sales in recent years has been outside of
the United States. For the year ended December 30, 2005, 84% of our net sales
were outside of the United States. During the years ended December 31, 2004 and
December 26, 2003, 79% and 77%, respectively, of our net sales were to customers
outside of the United States. Sales made by Pulse to its customers outside the
United States accounted for 85% of its net sales for the year ended December 30,
2005, 81% of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 77% for the
year ended December 26, 2003. Sales made by AMI Doduco to its customers outside
the United States accounted for 82% of its net sales for the year ended December
30, 2005, 78% of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 77% of
its net sales for the year ended December 26, 2003.

Development and Engineering

      Our development and engineering efforts are focused on the design and
development of innovative products in collaboration with our customers. We work
closely with OEMs to identify their design and engineering requirements. We
maintain strategically located design centers throughout the world where
proximity to customers enables us to better understand and more readily satisfy
their design and engineering needs. Our design process is a disciplined, orderly
process that uses a product data management system to track the level of design
activity enabling us to manage and improve how our engineers design products,
and we typically own the customized designs used to make products.

      Pulse's development and engineering expenditures were $21.4 million for
the year ended December 30, 2005, $18.4 million for the year ended December 31,
2004 and $14.5 million for the year ended December 26, 2003. AMI Doduco's
development and engineering expenditures were $4.1 million for the year ended
December 30, 2005, $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 and $3.9
million for the year ended December 26, 2003. We intend to continue to invest in
personnel and new technologies to improve product performance.

Competition

      We believe we are a market leader in the primary markets we serve based on
our estimates of the size of our primary markets in annual revenues and our
share of those markets relative to our competitors. We do not believe that any
one company competes with all of the product lines of either Pulse or AMI Doduco
on a global basis. However, both Pulse and AMI Doduco frequently encounter
strong competition within individual product lines, both domestically and
internationally. In addition, several OEMs internally manufacture some of the
products offered by Pulse and AMI Doduco. We believe that this represents an
opportunity to capture additional market share as OEMs decide to outsource
component operations. Therefore, we constantly work to identify these
opportunities and to convince these OEMs that our economies of scale, purchasing
power and manufacturing core competencies enable us to produce these products
more efficiently. Increasingly, Pulse's competitors are located in Asia and
enjoy very low cost structures and very low cost of capital. Many of these
competitors aggressively seek market share at the expense of profits.

      Competitive factors in the markets for our products include:

      o     price;

      o     product quality and reliability;

      o     global design and manufacturing capabilities;


                                        6
<PAGE>

      o     breadth of product line;

      o     customer service; and

      o     delivery time.

      We believe we compete favorably on the basis of each of these factors.
Product quality and reliability, as well as design and manufacturing
capabilities, are enhanced through our commitment to continually invest in and
improve our manufacturing and designing resources and our close relationships
with our customers' engineers. The breadth of our product offering provides
customers with the ability to satisfy their entire magnetic component or
electrical contact needs through one supplier. Our global presence enables us to
deepen our relationship with our customers and to better understand and more
easily satisfy the needs of local markets. In addition, our ability to purchase
raw materials in large quantities reduces our manufacturing costs, enabling us
to price our products competitively.

Employees

      As of December 30, 2005, we had approximately 29,500 full-time employees
as compared to 22,800 as of December 31, 2004. Of the 29,500 full-time
employees, approximately 600 were located in the United States. No employees in
the United States were covered by collective-bargaining agreements, however,
some foreign employees are members of trade unions. The number of employees at
year-end includes employees of certain subcontractors that are integral to our
operations in the People's Republic of China. Such employees numbered
approximately 18,800 and 14,000 as of December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004,
respectively. We have not experienced any major work stoppages and consider our
relations with our employees to be good.

Raw Materials

      Raw materials necessary for the manufacture of our products include:

      o     precious metals such as silver;

      o     base metals such as copper and brass; and

      o     ferrite cores.

      We do not currently have significant difficulty obtaining any of our raw
materials and do not currently anticipate that we will face any significant
difficulties in the near future. However, many of the raw materials we use are
considered commodities, such as copper, tungsten, nickel, silver and gold, and
the market prices of a number of these commodities have been volatile in the
last year. Although we are not dependent on any one particular source of supply,
several of our raw materials are only sold by a limited number of suppliers,
which could affect on the price of these materials. Should prices rise or a
shortage occur in any necessary raw material, our manufacturing costs will
likely increase, which may result in lower margins or decreased sales if we were
unable to pass along the price increase to our customers.

      AMI Doduco uses precious metals, primarily silver, in manufacturing about
two thirds of its electrical contacts, contact materials and contact
subassemblies. Historically, we have leased or held these precious metals
through consignment arrangements with our suppliers. Leasing and consignment
costs have generally been substantially below the costs to borrow funds to
purchase the metals and these arrangements eliminate the effect of fluctuations
in the market price associated with owned precious metal. AMI Doduco's terms of
sale generally allow us to charge customers for the fabricated market value of
silver on the day after we deliver the silver bearing product to the customer.
See additional discussion of precious metals beginning on page 23.

Backlog

      Our backlog of orders at December 30, 2005 was $73.0 million compared to
$75.7 million at December 31, 2004. We expect to ship the majority of the
backlog over the next six months. Customers can cancel orders at any time,
sometimes requiring a payment of cancellation charges. We do not believe that
backlog is an accurate indicator of near-term business activity because many
customers have negotiated rapid lead times, order pressure, vendor managed
inventory and other similar consignment type arrangements with us. Orders from
these arrangements typically are not reflected in backlog.

Intellectual Property

      We own a number of patents and have acquired the use of patents of others
under license agreements, which impose restrictions on other's ability to
utilize the intellectual property. We seek to limit disclosure of our
intellectual property by generally requiring employees and consultants with
access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements with
us and by restricting access to our proprietary information.


                                        7
<PAGE>

      Existing legal protections afford only limited protection for our
products. For example, others may independently develop similar or competing
products or attempt to copy or use aspects of our products that we regard as
proprietary. Furthermore, intellectual property law may not fully protect
products or technology that we consider to be our own, and claims of
intellectual property infringement may be asserted against us or against our
customers in connection with their use of our products.

      While our intellectual property is important to us in the aggregate, we do
not believe any individual patent, trademark, or license is material to our
business or operations.

Environmental

      Our manufacturing operations are subject to a variety of local, state,
federal, and international environmental laws and regulations governing air
emissions, wastewater discharges, the storage, use, handling, disposal and
remediation of hazardous substances and wastes and employee health and safety.
It is our policy to meet or exceed the environmental standards set by these
laws.

      We are aware of contamination at two locations. In Sinsheim, Germany,
there is a shallow groundwater and soil contamination that is naturally
decreasing over time. The German environmental authorities have not required
corrective action to date. In addition, property in Leesburg, Indiana, which was
acquired with our acquisition of GTI in 1998, is the subject of a 1994
Corrective Action Order to GTI by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM). Although we sold the property in early 2005, we retained the
responsibility for existing environmental issues at the site. The order requires
us to investigate and take corrective actions. Substantially all of the
corrective actions relating to impacted soil have been taken and IDEM has issued
us "no further action" letters for most of the remediated areas. We expect a
final "no further action" letter on this area upon IDEM's final review of our
closure report. We anticipate making additional environmental expenditures in
the future to continue our environmental studies, analysis and remediation
activities with respect to this site. Based on current knowledge, we do not
believe that any future expenses or liabilities associated with environmental
remediation will have a material impact on our operations or our consolidated
financial position, liquidity or operating results; however, we may be subject
to additional costs and liabilities if the scope of the contamination or the
cost of remediation exceeds our current expectations.

Available Information

      We make available free of charge on our website, www.technitrol.com, all
materials that we file electronically with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports and all Board
and Committee charters, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC.

Item 1a  Risk Factors

Factors That May Affect Our Future Results (Cautionary Statements for Purposes
of the "Safe Harbor" Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995)

      Our disclosures and analysis in this report contain forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations of
future events or future financial performance. You can identify these statements
by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
They often use words such as "anticipate", "estimate", "expect", "project",
"intend", "plan", "believe", and similar terms. These forward-looking statements
are based on our current plans and expectations.

      Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this report may prove to
be incorrect. They may be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by
risks and uncertainties which are either unknown or not fully known or
understood. Accordingly, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from
what is expressed or forecasted in this report.

      We sometimes provide forecasts of future financial performance. The risks
and uncertainties described under "Risk Factors" as well as other risks
identified from time to time in other Securities and Exchange Commission
reports, registration statements and public announcements, among others, should
be considered in evaluating our prospects for the future. We undertake no
obligation to release updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement,
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


                                        8
<PAGE>

Cyclical changes in the markets we serve could result in a significant decrease
in demand for our products and reduce our profitability.

      Our components are used in various products for the electronic and
electrical equipment markets. These markets are highly cyclical. The demand for
our components reflects the demand for products in the electronic and electrical
equipment markets generally. A contraction in demand would result in a decrease
in sales of our products, as our customers:

  o   may cancel many existing orders;

  o   may introduce fewer new products; and

  o   may decrease their inventory levels.

      A decrease in demand for our products would have a significant adverse
effect on our operating results and profitability. Accordingly, we may
experience volatility in both our revenues and profits.

Reduced prices for our products may adversely affect our profit margins if we
are unable to reduce our costs of production.

      The average selling prices for our products tend to decrease over their
life cycle. In addition, foreign currency movements and the need to retain
market share increase the pressure on our customers to seek lower prices from
their suppliers. As a result, our customers are likely to continue to demand
lower prices from us. To maintain our margins and remain profitable, we must
continue to meet our customers' design needs while reducing costs through
efficient raw material procurement and process and product improvements. Our
profit margins will suffer if we are unable to reduce our costs of production as
sales prices decline.

An inability to adequately respond to changes in technology or customer needs
may decrease our sales.

      Pulse operates in an industry characterized by rapid change caused by the
frequent emergence of new technologies. Generally, we expect life cycles for our
products in the electronic components industry to be relatively short. This
requires us to anticipate and respond rapidly to changes in industry standards
and customer needs and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a
timely and cost effective basis. Our engineering and development teams place a
priority on working closely with our customers to design innovative products and
improve our manufacturing processes. Our inability to react to changes in
technology or customer needs quickly and efficiently may decrease our sales,
thus reducing profitability.

If our inventories become obsolete, our future performance and operating results
will be adversely affected.

      The life cycles of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the
end products into which our products are designed. Many of Pulse's products have
very short life cycles which are measured in quarters. Products with short life
cycles require us to closely manage our production and inventory levels.
Inventory may become obsolete because of adverse changes in end market demand.
During market slowdowns, this may result in significant charges for inventory
write-offs. Our future operating results may be adversely affected by material
levels of obsolete or excess inventories.

An inability to capitalize on our recent or future acquisitions may adversely
affect our business.

      We have completed several acquisitions in recent years. We continually
seek acquisitions to grow our business. We may fail to derive significant
benefits from our acquisitions. In addition, if we fail to achieve sufficient
financial performance from an acquisition, goodwill and other intangibles could
become impaired, resulting in our recognition of a loss. In 2005, we recorded a
$46.0 million impairment charge related to Pulse's consumer division. In 2004,
we recorded an aggregate intangible impairment charge of $18.5 million related
to Pulse. The success of any of our acquisitions depends on our ability to:

  o   successfully integrate or consolidate acquired operations into our
      existing businesses;

  o   develop or modify the financial reporting and information systems of the
      acquired entity to ensure overall financial integrity and adequacy of
      internal control procedures;

  o   identify and take advantage of cost reduction opportunities; and

  o   further penetrate the markets for the product capabilities acquired.


                                        9
<PAGE>

      Integration of acquisitions may take longer than we expect and may never
be achieved to the extent originally anticipated. This could result in lower
than anticipated business growth or higher than anticipated costs. In addition,
acquisitions may:

  o   cause a disruption in our ongoing business;

  o   distract our managers;

  o   unduly burden our other resources; and

  o   result in an inability to maintain our historical standards, procedures
      and controls, which may result in non-compliance with external laws and
      regulations.

Integration of acquisitions into the acquiring segment may limit the ability of
investors to track the performance of individual acquisitions and to analyze
trends in our operating results.

      Our historical practice has been to rapidly integrate acquisitions into
the existing business of the acquiring segment and to report financial
performance on the segment level. As a result of this practice, we do not
separately track the stand-alone performance of acquisitions after the date of
the transaction. Consequently, investors cannot quantify the financial
performance and success of any individual acquisition or the financial
performance and success of a particular segment excluding the impact of
acquisitions. In addition, our practice of rapidly integrating acquisitions into
the financial performance of each segment may limit the ability of investors to
analyze any trends in our operating results over time.

An inability to identify additional acquisition opportunities may slow our
future growth.

      We intend to continue to identify and consummate additional acquisitions
to further diversify our business and to penetrate important markets. We may not
be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices. Even
if we identify promising acquisition candidates, the timing, price, structure
and success of future acquisitions are uncertain. An inability to consummate
attractive acquisitions may reduce our growth rate and our ability to penetrate
new markets.

If our customers terminate their existing agreements, or do not enter into new
agreements or submit additional purchase orders for our products, our business
will suffer.

      Most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, as needed by our
customers. In addition, to the extent we have agreements in place with our
customers, most of these agreements are either short term in nature or provide
our customers with the ability to terminate the arrangement with little or no
prior notice. Such agreements typically do not provide us with any material
recourse in the event of non-renewal or early termination. We will lose business
and our revenues will decrease if a significant number of customers:

  o   do not submit additional purchase orders;

  o   do not enter into new agreements with us; or

  o   elect to terminate their relationship with us.

If we do not effectively manage our business in the face of fluctuations in the
size of our organization, our business may be disrupted.

      We have grown over the last ten years, both organically and as a result of
acquisitions. However, we significantly reduce or expand our workforce and
facilities in response to rapid changes in demand for our products due to
prevailing global market conditions. These rapid fluctuations place strains on
our resources and systems. If we do not effectively manage our resources and
systems, our businesses may be adversely affected.

Uncertainty  in  demand  for our  products  may  result  in  increased  costs of
production,  an inability to service our customers,  or higher  inventory levels
which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

      We have very little visibility into our customers' purchasing patterns and
are highly dependent on our customers' forecasts. These forecasts are
non-binding and often highly unreliable. Given the fluctuation in growth rates
and cyclical demand for our products, as well as our reliance on often-imprecise
customer forecasts, it is difficult to accurately manage our production
schedule, equipment and personnel needs and our raw material and working capital
requirements. Our failure to effectively manage these issues may result in:

  o   production delays;


                                       10
<PAGE>

  o   increased costs of production;

  o   excessive inventory levels and reduced financial liquidity;

  o   an inability to make timely deliveries; and

  o   a decrease in profits.

A decrease in availability or increase in cost of our key raw materials could
adversely affect our profit margins.

      We use several types of raw materials in the manufacturing of our
products, including:

  o   precious metals such as silver;

  o   other base metals such as copper and brass; and

  o   ferrite cores.

      Some of these materials are produced by a limited number of suppliers.
From time to time, we may be unable to obtain these raw materials in sufficient
quantities or in a timely manner to meet the demand for our products. The lack
of availability or a delay in obtaining any of the raw materials used in our
products could adversely affect our manufacturing costs and profit margins. In
addition, if the price of our raw materials increases significantly over a short
period of time, customers may be unwilling to bear the increased price for our
products and we may be forced to sell our products containing these materials at
prices that reduce our profit margins.

      Some of our raw materials, such as precious metals, are considered
commodities and are subject to price volatility. We attempt to limit our
exposure to fluctuations in the cost of precious materials, including silver, by
holding the majority of our precious metal inventory through leasing or
consignment arrangements with our suppliers. We then typically purchase the
precious metal from our supplier at the current market price on the day after
delivery to our customer and pass this cost on to our customer. In addition,
leasing and consignment costs have historically been substantially below the
costs to borrow funds to purchase the precious metals. We currently have four
consignment or leasing agreements related to precious metals, all of which
generally have one year terms with varying maturity dates, but can be terminated
by either party with 30 days' prior notice. Our results of operations and
liquidity will be negatively impacted if:

  o   we are unable to enter into new leasing or consignment arrangements with
      similarly favorable terms after our existing agreements terminate, or

  o   our leasing or consignment fees increase significantly in a short period
      of time and we are unable to recover these increased costs through higher
      sale prices.

      Fees charged by the consignor are driven by interest rates and the market
price of the consigned material. The market price of the consigned material is
determined by the supply of, and the demand for, the material. Consignment fees
may increase if interest rates or the price of the consigned material increase.

Competition may result in lower prices for our products and reduced sales.

      Both Pulse and AMI Doduco frequently encounter strong competition within
individual product lines from various competitors throughout the world. We
compete principally on the basis of:

  o   product quality and reliability;

  o   global design and manufacturing capabilities;

  o   breadth of product line;

  o   customer service;

  o   price; and

  o   on-time delivery.

      Our inability to successfully compete on any or all of the above factors
may result in reduced sales.

Our backlog is not an accurate measure of future revenues and is subject to
customer cancellation.

      While our backlog consists of firm accepted orders with an express release
date generally scheduled within nine months of the order, many of the orders
that comprise our backlog may be canceled by customers without penalty. It is
widely known that customers in the electronics industry have on occasion double
and triple-ordered components from multiple sources to ensure timely delivery
when quoted lead time is particularly long. In addition, customers often cancel
orders when business is weak and inventories are excessive. Although backlog
should not be


                                       11
<PAGE>

relied on as an indicator of our future revenues, our results of operations
could be adversely impacted if customers cancel a material portion of orders in
our backlog.

Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our
operating results.

      We manufacture and sell our products in various regions of the world and
export and import these products to and from a large number of countries.
Fluctuations in exchange rates could negatively impact our cost of production
and sales that, in turn, could decrease our operating results and cash flow. In
addition, if the functional currency of our manufacturing costs strengthened
compared to the functional currency of our competitors manufacturing costs, our
products may get more costly than our competitors. Although we engage in limited
hedging transactions, including foreign currency contracts, to reduce our
transaction and economic exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, these
measures may not eliminate or substantially reduce our risk in the future.

Our international operations subject us to the risks of unfavorable political,
regulatory, labor and tax conditions in other countries.

      We manufacture and assemble most of our products in locations outside the
United States, including the Peoples' Republic of China, or PRC, Hungary,
Turkey, and Tunisia and a majority of our revenues are derived from sales to
customers outside the United States. Our future operations and earnings may be
adversely affected by the risks related to, or any other problems arising from,
operating in international markets.

      Risks inherent in doing business internationally may include:

  o   economic and political instability;

  o   expropriation and nationalization;

  o   trade restrictions;

  o   capital and exchange control programs;

  o   transportation delays;

  o   foreign currency fluctuations; and

  o   unexpected changes in the laws and policies of the United States or of the
      countries in which we manufacture and sell our products.

      Pulse has substantially all of its manufacturing operations in the PRC,
except for LK and ERA. Our presence in the PRC has enabled Pulse to maintain
lower manufacturing costs and to adjust our work force to demand levels for our
products. Although the PRC has a large and growing economy, the potential
economic, political, legal and labor developments entail uncertainties and
risks. For example, in May 2005 the local government in the PRC increased wages
in the southern coastal provinces of the PRC by 17%. While the PRC has been
receptive to foreign investment, we cannot be certain that its current policies
will continue indefinitely into the future. In the event of any changes that
adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations within the PRC, our
businesses may suffer. We also have manufacturing operations in Turkey and
Tunisia, which are subject to unique risks, including earthquakes and those
associated with Middle East geo-political events.

      We have benefited over recent years from favorable tax treatment as a
result of our international operations. We operate in countries where we realize
favorable income tax treatment relative to the U.S. statutory rate. We have also
been granted special tax incentives commonly known as tax holidays in countries
such as the PRC, Hungary, and Turkey. This favorable situation could change if
these countries were to increase rates or revoke the special tax incentives, or
if we discontinue our manufacturing operations in any of these countries and do
not replace the operations with operations in other locations with favorable tax
incentives. Accordingly, in the event of changes in laws and regulations
affecting our international operations, we may not be able to continue to take
advantage of similar benefits in the future.

Shifting our operations between regions may entail considerable expense.

      In the past we have shifted our operations from one region to another in
order to maximize manufacturing and operational efficiency. We may close one or
more additional factories in the future. This could entail significant one-time
earnings charges to account for severance, equipment write-offs or write-downs
and moving expenses, as well as certain adverse tax consequences including the
loss of specialized tax incentives. In addition, as we implement transfers of
our operations we may experience disruptions, including strikes or other types
of labor unrest resulting from layoffs or termination of employees.


                                       12
<PAGE>

Liquidity requirements could necessitate movements of existing cash balances
which may be subject to restrictions or cause unfavorable tax and earnings
consequences.

      A significant portion of our cash is held offshore by our international
subsidiaries and is predominantly denominated in U.S. dollars. While we intend
to use a significant amount of the cash held overseas to fund our international
operations and growth, if we encounter a significant domestic need for
liquidity, such as paying dividends, that we cannot fulfill through borrowings,
equity offerings, or other internal or external sources, we may experience
unfavorable tax and earnings consequences if this cash is transferred to the
United States. These adverse consequences would occur if the transfer of cash
into the United States is taxed and no offsetting foreign tax credit is
available to offset the U.S. tax liability, resulting in lower earnings. In
addition, we may be prohibited from transferring cash from the PRC. With the
exception of approximately $16.2 million of retained earnings as of December 30,
2005 in primarily the PRC that are restricted in accordance with the PRC Foreign
Investment Enterprises Law, substantially all retained earnings are free from
legal or contractual restrictions. The PRC Foreign Investment Enterprise Law
restricts 10% of our net earnings in the PRC, up to a maximum amount equal to
50% of the total capital we have invested in the PRC. We have not experienced
any significant liquidity restrictions in any country in which we operate and
none are presently foreseen. However, foreign exchange ceilings imposed by local
governments and the sometimes-lengthy approval processes which some foreign
governments require for international cash transfers may delay our internal cash
movements from time to time.

      In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("AJCA") was
signed into law. The AJCA contains a series of provisions, several of which are
pertinent to us. The AJCA creates a temporary incentive for U.S. multi-national
corporations to repatriate accumulated income abroad by providing an 85%
dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign
corporations. Based on this legislation and 2005 guidance by the Department of
Treasury, we repatriated $52 million of foreign earnings. A charge of $7.3
million related to the repatriation is included in income taxes (from continuing
operations) in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. Prior to
the passage of the AJCA, the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries,
with the exception of approximately $40 million, were considered to be
indefinitely reinvested, and in accordance with APB Opinion No. 23 ("APB 23"),
Accounting for Income Taxes - Special Areas, no provision for U.S. federal or
state income taxes had been provided on these undistributed earnings. The
remaining offshore earnings, with the exception of approximately $40 million,
are intended to be indefinitely invested abroad and no provision for U.S.
federal or state income taxes has been provided in accordance with APB 23.

Losing the services of our executive officers or our other highly qualified and
experienced employees could adversely affect our business.

      Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive
officers and management, many of whom have many years of experience and would be
extremely difficult to replace. We must also attract and maintain experienced
and highly skilled engineering, sales and marketing and managerial personnel.
Competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industries, and we may not
be successful in hiring and retaining these people. If we lose the services of
our executive officers or cannot attract and retain other qualified personnel,
our businesses could be adversely affected.

Public health epidemics (such as flu strains, or severe acute respiratory
syndrome) or other natural disasters (such as earthquakes or fires) may disrupt
operations in affected regions and affect operating results.

      Pulse maintains extensive manufacturing operations in the PRC, Turkey and
Tunisia, as do many of our customers and suppliers. A sustained interruption of
our manufacturing operations, or those of our customers or suppliers, as a
result of complications from severe acute respiratory syndrome or another public
health epidemic or other natural disasters, could have a material adverse effect
on our business and results of operations.

Costs associated with precious metals may not be recoverable.

      AMI Doduco uses silver, as well as other precious metals, in manufacturing
some of its electrical contacts, contact materials and contact subassemblies.
Historically, we have leased or held these materials through consignment
arrangements with our suppliers. Leasing and consignment costs have typically
been below the costs to borrow funds to purchase the metals, and more
importantly, these arrangements eliminate the effects of fluctuations in the
market price of owned precious metal and enable us to minimize our inventories.
AMI Doduco's terms of sale generally allow us to charge customers for precious
metal content based on market value of precious metal on the day after shipment
to the customer. Thus far we have been successful in managing the costs
associated with our precious metals. While limited amounts are purchased for use
in production, the majority of our precious metal inventory continues to be
leased or held on consignment. If our leasing/consignment fees increase
significantly in a short period of time, and we are unable to recover these
increased costs through higher sale prices, a negative impact on our


                                       13
<PAGE>

results of operations and liquidity may result. Leasing/consignment fee
increases are caused by increases in interest rates or volatility in the price
of the consigned material.

The unavailability of insurance against certain business risks may adversely
affect our future operating results.

      As part of our comprehensive risk management program, we purchase
insurance coverage against certain business risks. If any of our insurance
carriers discontinues an insurance policy or significantly reduces available
coverage or increases in the deductibles and we cannot find another insurance
carrier to write comparable coverage, we may be subject to uninsured losses
which may adversely affect our operating results.

Environmental liability and compliance obligations may affect our operations and
results.

      Our manufacturing operations are subject to a variety of environmental
laws and regulations as well as internal programs and policies governing:

  o   air emissions;

  o   wastewater discharges;

  o   the storage, use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous
      substances, wastes and chemicals; and

  o   employee health and safety.

      If violations of environmental laws should occur, we could be held liable
for damages, penalties, fines and remedial actions. Our operations and results
could be adversely affected by any material obligations arising from existing
laws, as well as any required material modifications arising from new
regulations that may be enacted in the future. We may also be held liable for
past disposal of hazardous substances generated by our business or businesses we
acquire. In addition, it is possible that we may be held liable for
contamination discovered at our present or former facilities.

      We are aware of contamination at two locations. In Sinsheim, Germany,
there is a shallow groundwater and soil contamination that is naturally
decreasing over time. The German environmental authorities have not required
corrective action to date. In addition, property in Leesburg, Indiana, which was
acquired with our acquisition of GTI in 1998, is the subject of a 1994
Corrective Action Order to GTI by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM). Although we sold the property in early 2005, we retained the
responsibility for existing environmental issues at the site. The order requires
us to investigate and take corrective actions. Substantially all of the
corrective actions relating to impacted soil have been taken and IDEM has issued
us "no further action" letters for most of the remediated areas. We expect a
final "no further action" letter on this area upon IDEM's final review of our
closure report. We anticipate making additional environmental expenditures in
the future to continue our environmental studies, analysis and remediation
activities with respect to this site. Based on current knowledge, we do not
believe that any future expenses or liabilities associated with environmental
remediation will have a material impact on our operations or our consolidated
financial position, liquidity or operating results; however, we may be subject
to additional costs and liabilities if the scope of the contamination or the
cost of remediation exceeds our current expectations.

Item 1b  Unresolved Staff Comments

      None


                                       14
<PAGE>

Item 2  Properties

      We are headquartered in Trevose, Pennsylvania where we lease 8,000 square
feet of office space. Through Pulse and AMI Doduco, we operated 24 manufacturing
plants in 10 countries as of December 30, 2005. We continually seek to size our
operations in order to maximize cost efficiencies. Accordingly, in the future,
we may take further actions to increase or decrease our manufacturing capacity.
To maximize production efficiencies, we seek, whenever practical, to establish
manufacturing facilities in countries where we can take advantage of lower labor
costs and, if available, various government incentives and tax benefits. We also
seek to maintain facilities in those regions where we market our products in
order to maintain a local presence in proximity to our customers.

      The following is a list of the locations of our principal manufacturing
facilities at December 30, 2005:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Pulse                                                                                               Approx. Percentage
Location (1)                                       Approx. Square Ft. (2)      Owned/Leased     Used For Manufacturing
- --------                                          ------------------           ------------     ----------------------
<S>                                                        <C>                       <C>                          <C>
Zhuhai, People's Republic of China, or PRC                   313,000                 Leased                       100%
Ningbo, PRC (3)                                              266,000                  Owned                        80%
Dongguan, PRC                                                231,000                 Leased                       100%
Zhongshan, PRC                                               192,000                 Leased                        90%
Kempele, Finland                                             151,000                 Leased                        80%
Suzhou, PRC                                                   52,000                 Leased                       100%
Shenzhen, PRC (3)                                             29,000                 Leased                       100%
Greensboro, Maryland                                          20,000                  Owned                        95%
Changshu, PRC (3)                                             14,000                  Owned                        85%
Yang Mei, Taiwan (3)                                          14,000                  Owned                        80%
Komarom, Hungary                                              10,000                 Leased                        75%
                                                           ---------
      Total                                                1,292,000
</TABLE>

(1)   In addition to these manufacturing locations, Pulse has 185,000 square
      feet of space which is used for engineering, sales and administrative
      support functions at various locations, including Pulse's headquarters in
      San Diego, California. In addition, Pulse leases approximately 1,701,000
      square feet of space for dormitories, canteens and other employee-related
      facilities in the PRC.

(2)   Consists of aggregate square footage in each locality where manufacturing
      facilities are located. More than one manufacturing facility may be
      located within each locality.

(3)   Primarily facilities of Full Rise Electronic Co., Ltd. ("FRE"), a majority
      owned subsidiary, of which we owned 57% at December 30, 2005.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
AMI Doduco                                                            Approx. Percentage
Location (1)             Approx. Square Ft.     Owned/ Leased     Used For Manufacturing
- ------------             ------------------     -------------     ----------------------
<S>                               <C>                  <C>                          <C>
Pforzheim, Germany                  490,000             Owned                        65%
Sinsheim, Germany                   222,000             Owned                        60%
Export, Pennsylvania                115,000            Leased                        80%
Tianjin, PRC                         62,000            Leased                       100%
Mexico City, Mexico                  37,000            Leased                        80%
Luquillo, Puerto Rico                32,000             Owned                        80%
Madrid, Spain                        32,000             Owned                        90%
Dorog, Hungary                       11,000            Leased                        80%
                                  ---------
      Total                       1,001,000
</TABLE>

(1)   Engineering, sales and administrative support functions for AMI Doduco are
      generally contained in these locations.

      We have developed our manufacturing processes in ways intended to maximize
our economic profitability. Accordingly, the manufacturing processes at Pulse
facilities maintain a cost structure that is labor intensive and highly
variable, except for LK's manufacturing locations, the Consumer Division
manufacturing locations, FRE's facilities in Chang An, PRC which are highly
automated. The labor intensity at legacy Pulse facilities enables us to increase
and decrease production rapidly and to contain costs during slower periods,
whereas the Consumer Division's manufacturing plants are highly automated and
therefore very sensitive to the volume of production. On the other hand, AMI
Doduco's products tend to have longer business cycles, longer time to market and
are more capital intensive than legacy Pulse products. As a result, we have
automated or mechanized many functions at AMI Doduco facilities and vertically
integrated our products in an attempt to utilize all of our manufacturing
capabilities to create higher value added products and at a lower cost.

      Traditionally, our engineers design products to meet our customers'
product needs and then we mass-produce the products once a contract is awarded
by, or orders are received from, our customer. We also service customers that
design their own components and outsource production of these components to us.
We then build the components to the customer's design.


                                       15
<PAGE>

      The productive capacity and extent of utilization of our facilities are
difficult to quantify. In any one facility, maximum capacity and utilization
vary periodically depending on the segment's manufacturing strategies, the
product being manufactured and the current market conditions and demand. We
estimate that our average utilization of overall production capacity in 2005 was
between 80% to 90% for Pulse and 75% to 80% for AMI Doduco.

Item 3  Legal Proceedings

      We are a party to various legal proceedings and administrative actions.
See Discussion in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We expect
lawsuits to arise in the normal course of business. Although it is difficult to
predict the outcome of any legal proceeding, we do not believe these proceedings
and actions will, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

Item 4  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

      None


                                       16
<PAGE>

                                     Part II

Item 5  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

      Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker
symbol "TNL". The following table reflects the highest and lowest sales prices
in each quarter of the last two years.

             First  Quarter   Second  Quarter   Third  Quarter   Fourth  Quarter
             --------------   ---------------   --------------   ---------------

2005 High            $19.03           $15.28            $15.52            $18.05
2005 Low             $14.35           $12.20            $12.55            $14.14

2004 High            $21.85           $23.28            $21.68            $19.91
2004 Low             $17.61           $18.80            $16.80            $16.10

      On December 30, 2005, there were approximately 1,258 registered holders of
our common stock, which has a par value of $0.125 per share and is the only
class of stock that we have outstanding. See additional discussion on restricted
earnings in Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources, and in Note 8 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

      We used $10.6 million for dividend payments during the year ended December
30, 2005. On October 27, 2005, we announced a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0875
per common share, payable on January 20, 2006 to shareholders of record on
January 2, 2006. This quarterly dividend will result in a cash payment to
shareholders of approximately $3.5 million in the first quarter of 2006. We
expect to continue making quarterly dividend payments for the foreseeable
future. We did not declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock during the
year ended December 31, 2004.

      Information as of December 30, 2005 concerning plans under which our
equity securities are authorized for issuance are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   Number of shares to be issued
                                       upon exercise of options,        Weighted average       Number of securities
                                   grant of restricted shares or       exercise price of        remaining available
Plan Category                             other incentive shares     outstanding options        for future issuance
- -----------------------------    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                   <C>                       <C>                      <C>
Equity compensation plans
approved by security holders                          6,005,000                 $19.31                   3,015,225

Equity compensation plans not
approved by security holders                                  0                      0                           0

Total                                                 6,005,000                 $19.31                   3,015,225
</TABLE>

      On May 15, 1981, our shareholders approved an incentive compensation plan
("ICP") intended to enable us to obtain and retain the services of employees by
providing them with incentives that may be created by the Board of Directors
Compensation Committee under the ICP. Subsequent amendments to the plan were
approved by our shareholders including an amendment on May 23, 2001 which
increased the total number of shares of our common stock which may be granted
under the plan to 4,900,000. Our 2001 Stock Option Plan and the Restricted Stock
Plan II were adopted under the ICP. In addition to the ICP, plans approved by us
include a 105,000 share Board of Director Stock Plan and an Employee Stock
Purchase Plan. The maximum number of shares which may be issued under our
Employee Stock Purchase Plan is 1,000,000, provided, however, that such amount
will be automatically increased annually beginning on August 1, 2002 in an
amount equal to the lesser of (a) 200,000 shares, or (b) two percent (2%) of the
outstanding common stock as of the last day of the prior fiscal year or
alternatively (c) such an amount as may be determined by our board of directors.
In 2003, our board of directors determined that no increase for 2003 or 2004
should be made. During 2004, the operation of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan
was suspended following an evaluation of its affiliated expense and perceived
value by employees. Of the 3,015,225 shares remaining available for future
issuance, 2,155,246 shares are attributable to our Restricted Stock Plan and our
Stock Option Plan, 812,099 shares are attributable to our Employee Stock
Purchase Plan, and 47,880 shares are attributable to our Board of Director Stock
Plan. Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains additional
information regarding our stock based compensation plans.


                                       17
<PAGE>

Item 6  Selected Financial Data (in thousands, except per share amounts)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         2005(h)(i)    2004(f)(g)     2003(e)        2002(c)        2001(d)
                                                       -------------   ----------    ---------    -------------    ---------
<S>                                                    <C>              <C>          <C>          <C>              <C>
Net sales                                              $     616,378    $ 561,298    $ 494,856    $     391,316    $ 458,010
(Loss) earnings from continuing operations before
     cumulative effect of accounting change            $     (24,428)   $   7,107    $  12,333    $     (28,644)   $   2,118
Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of
     income taxes                                               (564)          --           --          (15,738)          --
Net (loss) earnings from discontinued operations                (472)        (179)        (345)             845          666
                                                       -------------    ---------    ---------    -------------    ---------
Net (loss) earnings                                    $     (25,464)   $   6,928    $  11,988    $     (43,537)   $   2,784
                                                       =============    =========    =========    =============    =========

Basic earnings per share:
    (Loss) earnings from continuing operations
     before cumulative effect of accounting change     $       (0.61)   $    0.18    $    0.31    $       (0.77)   $    0.06

    Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of
      income taxes                                             (0.01)          --           --            (0.42)          --
    Net (loss) earnings from discontinued operations           (0.01)       (0.01)       (0.01)            0.02         0.02
                                                       -------------    ---------    ---------    -------------    ---------
    Net (loss) earnings                                $       (0.63)   $    0.17    $    0.30    $       (1.17)   $    0.08
                                                       =============    =========    =========    =============    =========

Diluted earnings per share:
    (Loss) earnings from continuing operations
    before cumulative effect of accounting change      $       (0.61)   $    0.18    $    0.31    $       (0.77)   $    0.06

    Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of
      income taxes                                             (0.01)          --           --            (0.42)          --
    Net (loss) earnings from discontinued operations           (0.01)       (0.01)       (0.01)            0.02         0.02
                                                       -------------    ---------    ---------    -------------    ---------
    Net (loss) earnings                                $       (0.63)   $    0.17    $    0.30    $       (1.17)   $    0.08
                                                       =============    =========    =========    =============    =========

Total assets                                           $     686,302    $ 636,528    $ 588,894    $     547,706    $ 525,020
Total long-term debt                                   $      83,492    $   7,255    $   6,837    $      16,348    $  89,129
Shareholders' equity                                   $     418,664    $ 464,862    $ 448,750    $     422,059    $ 329,231
     Net worth per share                               $       10.33    $   11.49    $   11.14    $       10.52    $    9.77
Working capital (a)                                    $     209,841    $ 238,898    $ 199,770    $     235,579    $ 189,257
     Current ratio                                          2.1 to 1     2.9 to 1     2.7 to 1         3.2 to 1     2.9 to 1
Number of shares outstanding:
     Weighted average, including common stock                 40,297       40,411       40,171           37,281       33,566
       equivalents
     Year end                                                 40,529       40,448       40,279           40,130       33,683
Dividends declared per share (b)                       $      0.3500           --           --               --    $  0.1350
Price range per share:
     High                                              $       19.03    $   23.28    $   24.43    $       31.40    $   57.00
     Low                                               $       12.20    $   16.10    $   13.50    $       12.66    $   19.60
</TABLE>

(a)   Includes cash and cash equivalents and current installments of long-term
      debt.

(b)   After January 25, 2002, we suspended paying regular quarterly cash
      dividends on our common stock. Our last dividend declared was in 2001. On
      February 2, 2005 we announced the restoration of the practice of paying a
      quarterly dividend, beginning with a dividend of $0.0875 per share,
      payable April 22, 2005.

(c)   During 2002, we recorded a cumulative effect of accounting change of $15.7
      million net of income tax benefit, and a $32.1 million intangible asset
      impairment, less a $12.8 million tax benefit.

(d)   During 2002, our ownership interest in a cost basis method investment
      increased from approximately 19% to 28%. The initial investment was made
      in 2001. We have adjusted 2001 to reflect the impact of a change in
      accounting for this investment from the cost basis method to the equity
      accounting method, as if this investment were accounted for as an equity
      method investment since the initial investment.

(e)   On January 9, 2003 we purchased Eldor High Tech Wire Wound Components
      S.r.L. for $83.9 million in cash.

(f)   During 2004, we recorded $18.5 million in intangible asset impairments,
      less a $2.2 million tax benefit.

(g)   On September 13, 2004 we acquired a controlling interest in Full Rise
      Electronic Co., Ltd. ("FRE"), and began consolidating FRE's results, less
      a minority interest. Our investment in FRE was previously accounted for
      under the equity method. Our ownership percentage in FRE was 57% as of
      December 30, 2005.

(h)   On September 8, 2005, we purchased LK Products Oy for $88.0 million in
      cash.

(i)   During 2005, we recorded a charge for a cumulative effect of accounting
      change of $0.6 million net of income tax benefit which is included in net
      (loss) earnings from continuing operations. Additionally, we recorded a
      $37.1 million intangible asset impairment and an $8.9 million fixed asset
      impairment, less a $0.2 million tax benefit.


                                       18
<PAGE>

Item 7  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

Introduction

      This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of
operations as well as other sections of this report, contain certain
"forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these
forward-looking statements for many reasons, including the risks faced by us
described in "Risk Factors" section of this report on page 8 through 14.

Critical Accounting Policies

      The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts
reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 1
to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 43 through 45 describes the
significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the
Consolidated Financial Statements. Estimates are used for, but not limited to,
the accounting for inventory valuation, impairment of goodwill and other
intangibles, severance and asset impairment expense, income taxes, and
contingency accruals. Actual results could differ from these estimates. The
following critical accounting policies are impacted significantly by judgments,
assumptions and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

      Inventory Valuation. We carry our inventories at lower of cost or market.
We establish inventory provisions to write down excess and obsolete inventory to
market value. We utilize historical trends and customer forecasts to estimate
expected usage of on-hand inventory. In addition, inventory purchases are based
upon future demand forecasts estimated by taking into account actual sales of
our products over recent historical periods and customer forecasts. If there is
a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products or there is a
higher risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology or
customer requirements, we may be required to write down our inventory and our
gross margin could be negatively affected. Conversely, if we were to sell or use
a significant portion of inventory already written down, our gross margin could
be positively affected.

      Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangibles. We assess the carrying cost
of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives on an annual basis and
between annual tests in certain circumstances. This assessment is based on
comparing fair value to carrying cost. Fair value is based on estimating future
cash flows using various growth assumptions and discounting based on a present
value factor. Assigning a useful life and periodically reassessing a remaining
useful life (for purposes of systematic amortization) is also predicated on
various economic assumptions. Our intangible assets are also subject to
impairment as a result of other factors such as changing technology, declines in
demand that lead to excess capacity and other factors. In addition to the
various assumptions, judgments and estimates mentioned above, we may
strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or
otherwise exiting businesses in response to changes in industry or market
conditions, which could result in an impairment of goodwill or other
intangibles.

      Severance and Asset Impairment Expense. Acquisition-related costs are
included in the allocation of the cost of the acquired business. Other
restructuring costs are expensed during the period in which we determine that we
will incur those costs, and all of the requirements for accrual are met in
accordance with the applicable accounting guidance. We record severance,
tangible asset and other restructuring charges such as lease terminations, in
response to declines in demand that lead to excess capacity, changing technology
and other factors. Restructuring costs are recorded based upon our best
estimates at the time, such as estimated residual values. Our actual
expenditures for the restructuring activities may differ from the initially
recorded costs. If this occurs, we adjust our initial estimates in future
periods. In the case of acquisition-related restructuring costs, depending on
whether the assets impacted came from the acquired entity and the timing of the
restructuring charge, such adjustment would generally require a change in value
of the goodwill appearing on our balance sheet, which may not affect our
earnings. In the case of other restructuring costs, we could be required either
to record additional expenses in future periods if our initial estimates were
too low, or reverse part of the charges that we recorded initially if our
initial estimates were too high.

      Income Taxes. We use the asset and liability method of accounting for
income taxes. Under this method, income tax expense is recognized for the amount
of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and for deferred tax
liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been
recognized in an entity's financial statements or tax returns. We must make
assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision for
income taxes and also our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation
allowance to be recorded against a deferred tax asset. Our judgments,
assumptions and estimates relative to the current provision for income tax take
into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax laws and
possible outcomes of current and future audits


                                       19
<PAGE>

conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. Changes in tax law or our
interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future tax audits
could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our
consolidated financial statements. Our assumptions, judgments and estimates
relative to the value of a deferred tax asset take in to account predictions of
the amount and category of future taxable income. Actual operating results and
the underlying amount and category of income in future years could render our
current assumptions, judgments and estimates of recoverable net deferred taxes
inaccurate. Any of the assumptions, judgments and estimates mentioned above
could cause our actual income tax obligations to differ from our estimates.

      Contingency Accruals. During the normal course of business, a variety of
issues may arise, which may result in litigation, environmental compliance and
other contingent obligations. In developing our contingency accruals we consider
both the likelihood of a loss or incurrence of a liability as well as our
ability to reasonably estimate the amount of exposure. We record contingency
accruals when a liability is probable and the amount can be reasonably
estimated. We periodically evaluate available information to assess whether
contingency accruals should be adjusted. Our evaluation includes an assessment
of legal interpretations, judicial proceedings, recent case law and specific
changes or developments regarding known claims. We could be required to record
additional expenses in future periods if our initial estimates were too low, or
reverse part of the charges that we recorded initially if our estimates were too
high.

Overview

      We are a global producer of precision-engineered electronic components and
electrical contact products and materials. We believe we are a leading global
producer of these products and materials in the primary markets we serve based
on our estimates of the size of our primary markets in annual revenues and our
share of those markets relative to our competitors.

      We operate our business in two distinct segments:

          o   the electronic components segment, which operates under the name
              Pulse, and

          o   the electrical contact products segment, which operates under the
              name AMI Doduco.

      General. We define net sales as gross sales less returns and allowances.
We sometimes refer to net sales as revenue.

      Prior to 2001, the growth in our consolidated net sales was due in large
part to the growth of electronic component markets served by Pulse. However,
beginning in late 2000, the electronics markets served by Pulse experienced a
severe global contraction. In late 2002, many of these markets began to
stabilize or increase in terms of unit sales. However, because of excess
capacity, relocation by customers from North America and Europe to Asia, and
emergence of strong competitors in Asia, the pricing environment for Pulse's
products has been and remains challenging, preventing total revenue from growing
proportionately with unit growth. Pulse has undertaken a series of
cost-reduction actions to optimize its capacity with market conditions.

      Since late 2000 and continuing through late 2003, the markets in both
North America and Europe for AMI Doduco's products were weak. The markets in
both North America and Europe began to recover in 2004 and continued at a
stronger level in 2005. Demand at AMI Doduco typically mirrors the prevailing
economic conditions in North America and Europe. This is true for electrical
contacts, and for component subassemblies for automotive applications such as
multi-function switches, motor control sensors and ignition security systems,
and for non-automotive uses such as appliance and industrial controls. AMI
Doduco continues its cost reduction actions including work force adjustments and
plant consolidations in line with demand around the world in order to optimize
efficiency.

      Historically, the gross margin at Pulse has been significantly higher than
at AMI Doduco. As a result, the mix of net sales generated by Pulse and AMI
Doduco during a period affects our consolidated gross margin. Our gross margin
is also significantly affected by capacity utilization, particularly in higher
fixed-cost operations in AMI Doduco, the Pulse Consumer Division and LK. Pulse's
markets are characterized by relatively short product life cycles compared to
AMI Doduco. As a result, significant product turnover occurs each year.
Therefore, Pulse's changes in average selling prices do not necessarily provide
a meaningful and quantifiable measure of Pulse's operations. AMI Doduco has a
relatively long-term and mature product line, with less turnover, and with less
frequent variation in the prices of product sold, relative to Pulse. Many of AMI
Doduco's products are sold under annual (or longer) purchase contracts.
Therefore, AMI Doduco's revenues historically have not been subject to
significant price fluctuations. In addition, sales growth and contraction at AMI
Doduco, Pulse's Consumer Division and LK are generally attributable to changes
in unit volume and changes in unit pricing, as well as foreign exchange rates,
especially the U.S. dollar to the euro.


                                       20
<PAGE>

      Acquisitions. Acquisitions have been an important part of our growth
strategy. In many cases, our move into new product lines and extensions of our
existing product lines or markets has been facilitated by an acquisition. Our
acquisitions continually change the mix of our net sales. Pulse made numerous
acquisitions in recent years which have increased our penetration into our
primary markets and expanded our presence in new markets. Excelsus was acquired
in August 2001 for approximately $85.9 million, net of cash acquired. Excelsus
was based in Carlsbad, California, and was a leading producer of
customer-premises digital subscriber line filters and other broadband
accessories and it is now a core part of Pulse's telecommunications product
division. Pulse acquired Eldor's consumer electronics business in January 2003
for approximately $83.9 million, and this became the Pulse Consumer Division
headquartered in Italy with production operations in Izmir, Turkey and in the
PRC. The Consumer Division is a leading supplier of flyback transformers to the
European television industry. We acquired a controlling interest in Full Rise
Electronic Co., Ltd. ("FRE") in late 2004. FRE is based in the Republic of China
(Taiwan) and manufactures connector products, including single and multiple-port
jacks, and supplies such products to Pulse under a cooperation agreement. LK
Products Oy was acquired in September 2005 for approximately $88.0 million, net
of cash acquired. LK Products Oy is based in Kempele, Finland, and is a leading
producer of internal antennas and integrated modules for mobile communications
and information devices. The purchase agreement includes a revenue-based
earn-out provision whereby we will pay the seller one euro for each euro of
revenue in excess of 85.0 million euro achieved by LK during the twelve months
ended May 31, 2006. ERA Group was acquired in January 2006 for approximately
$58.0 million. ERA Group is based in Herrenberg, Germany and is a leading
producer of electronic coils and transformers primarily for the European
automotive market. AMI Doduco has also made acquisitions over the years.
Generally, AMI Doduco's acquisitions have been driven by our strategy of
expanding our product and geographical market presence for electrical contact
products. Due to our integration of acquisitions and the interchangeable sources
of net sales between existing and acquired operations, historically we have not
separately tracked the net sales of an acquisition after the date of the
transaction.

      In the second quarter of 2005, we received approximately $6.7 million for
the sale of AMI Doduco's bimetal and metal cladding operations. We have
reflected the results of the bimetal and metal cladding operations as
discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for all
periods presented. Accordingly, historical statements of operations amounts
included in the Form 10-K have been restated to reflect the discontinued
operation.

      Technology. Our business is continually affected by changes in technology,
design, and preferences of consumers and other end users of our products, as
well as changes in regulatory requirements. We address these changes by
continuing to invest in new product development and by maintaining a diverse
product portfolio which contains both mature and emerging technologies in order
to meet customer demands.

      Management Focus. Our executives focus on a number of important factors in
evaluating our financial condition and operational performance. We use economic
profit, which we define as operating profit after tax, less our cost of capital.
Revenue growth, gross profit as a percentage of revenue, and operating profit as
a percent of revenue are also among these factors. Operating leverage or
incremental operating profit as a percentage of incremental sales is a factor
that is discussed frequently, as this is believed to reflect the benefit of
absorbing fixed overhead and operating expenses. In evaluating working capital
management, liquidity and cash flow, our executives also use performance
measures such as days sales outstanding, days payable outstanding, inventory
turnover and cash conversion efficiency. The continued success of our business
is largely dependent on meeting and exceeding our customers' expectations.
Therefore, non-financial performance measures relating to on-time delivery and
quality assist our management in monitoring customer satisfaction on an on-going
basis.

      Cost Reduction Programs. Our manufacturing model for Pulse's legacy
business has a very high variable cost component due to the labor-intensity of
many processes, which allows us to quickly change our capacity based on market
demand. The Pulse Consumer Division, however, is capital intensive and therefore
more sensitive to volume changes. AMI Doduco has a higher fixed cost component
of manufacturing activity than Pulse, as it is more capital intensive.
Therefore, AMI Doduco is unable to expand or contract its capacity as quickly as
Pulse in response to market demand, although significant actions have been taken
to align AMI Doduco's capacity with current market demand.

      As a result of our continuing focus on both economic and operating profit,
we will continue to aggressively size both Pulse and AMI Doduco so that costs
are optimally matched to current and anticipated future revenue and unit demand.
We will also continue to pursue additional growth opportunities. The amounts of
additional charges will depend on specific actions taken. The actions taken over
the past several years such as plant closures, plant relocations, asset
impairments and reduction in personnel worldwide have resulted in the
elimination of a variety of costs. The majority of these costs represent the
annual salaries and benefits of terminated employees, both those directly
related to manufacturing and those providing selling, general and administrative
services, as well as lower


                                       21
<PAGE>

overhead costs related to factory relocations to lower-cost locations. The
eliminated costs also include depreciation savings from disposed equipment. We
have implemented a succession of cost reduction initiatives and programs.

      During 2001, we announced the closure of our Pulse production facilities
in Thailand and Malaysia. The production at these two facilities was transferred
to other Pulse facilities in Asia. In addition, headcount was reduced by
approximately 12,300, net of new hires, during fiscal 2001 through voluntary
employee attrition and involuntary workforce reductions primarily at
manufacturing facilities in the People's Republic of China ("PRC"). In addition,
a charge was recorded in 2001 to writedown the value of certain Pulse fixed
assets to their disposal value.

      During 2002, we announced the closure of our production facility in the
Philippines. The production at this facility was transferred to other Pulse
facilities in Asia. We also adopted other restructuring plans during 2002 for
personnel reductions. An additional provision was recorded in 2002 related to
asset writedowns, relating to primarily Asian-based production equipment that
became idle in 2002.

      During 2003, we accrued for the elimination of certain manufacturing and
support positions located in France, the United Kingdom, Mexico, the PRC and for
other facility exit costs related to Pulse. We accrued for the shutdown of
Pulse's manufacturing facility in Mexico and to write down the carrying cost of
Pulse's facility in the Philippines which is held for sale. At AMI Doduco, we
accrued for the elimination of certain manufacturing positions principally
located in North America and Germany and to complete the shutdown of a redundant
facility in Spain that we acquired from Engelhard-CLAL in 2001.

      We began to implement lean manufacturing techniques at many Pulse and AMI
Doduco manufacturing locations during 2003. Lean, as opposed to batch-and-queue,
production best fits our environment because its main focus is throughput. Lean
is a continuous improvement method in which inputs are organized more closely
around processes, and products are made to order, resulting in smaller
inventories, less scrap and shorter lead times. It is designed to significantly
increase plant throughput with minimal incremental capital investment.

      During 2004, we accrued for the termination of personnel at AMI Doduco's
facility in Germany; for Pulse's shutdown of a facility in Carlsbad, California;
for a capacity reduction at a Pulse facility in the PRC; for the shutdown of AMI
Doduco's facility in France; and for other severance in various locations.

      During 2005, we accrued $7.0 million to streamline operations at Pulse and
AMI Doduco. We also recorded a $46.0 million impairment charge for Pulse's
consumer division.

      International Operations. As of December 30, 2005, we had manufacturing
operations in 10 countries and had no significant net sales in currencies other
than the U.S. dollar and the euro. A large percentage of our sales in recent
years have been outside of the United States. In the year ended December 30,
2005, 84% of our net sales were outside of the U.S. Changing exchange rates
often impact our financial results and our period-over-period comparisons. This
is particularly true of movements in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar
and the euro. AMI Doduco's European and Pulse's Consumer Division and LK sales
are denominated primarily in euro, and euro-denominated sales and earnings may
result in higher or lower dollar sales and net earnings upon translation for our
U.S. consolidated financial statements. We may also experience a positive or
negative translation adjustment to equity because our investments in Pulse's
Consumer Division, LK and AMI Doduco's European operations may be worth more or
less in U.S. dollars after translation for our U. S. consolidated financial
statements. Our Euro-denominated operations may incur foreign currency gains or
losses as euro-denominated transactions are remeasured to U.S. dollars for
financial reporting purposes. If a higher percentage of our sales is denominated
in non-U.S. currencies, increased exposure to currency fluctuations may result.

      In order to reduce our exposure resulting from currency fluctuations, we
may purchase currency exchange forward contracts and/or currency options. These
contracts guarantee a predetermined range of exchange rates at the time the
contract is purchased. This allows us to shift the majority of the risk of
currency fluctuations from the date of the contract to a third party for a fee.
As of December 30, 2005, we had one foreign currency forward contract
outstanding to sell forward approximately 49.9 million euros in order to hedge
intercompany loans. In determining the use of forward exchange contracts and
currency options, we consider the amount of sales, purchases and net assets or
liabilities denominated in local currencies, the type of currency, and the costs
associated with the contracts.


                                       22
<PAGE>

      Precious Metals. AMI Doduco uses silver, as well as other precious metals,
in manufacturing some of its electrical contacts, contact materials and contact
subassemblies. Historically, we have leased or held these materials through
consignment-type arrangements with our suppliers. Leasing and consignment costs
have typically been below the costs to borrow funds to purchase the metals, and
more importantly, these arrangements eliminate the effects of fluctuations in
the market price of owned precious metal and enable us to minimize our
inventories. AMI Doduco's terms of sale generally allow us to charge customers
for precious metal content based on market value of precious metal on the day
after shipment to the customer. Thus far we have been successful in managing the
costs associated with our precious metals. While limited amounts are purchased
for use in production, the majority of our precious metal inventory continues to
be leased or held on consignment. If our leasing/consignment fees increase
significantly in a short period of time, and we are unable to recover these
increased costs through higher sale prices, a negative impact on our results of
operations and liquidity may result. Leasing/consignment fee increases are
caused by increases in interest rates or volatility in the price of the
consigned material.

      Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate is affected by the proportion
of our income earned in high-tax jurisdictions such as those in Europe and the
income earned in low-tax jurisdictions, particularly Izmir, Turkey and the
People's Republic of China. This mix of income can vary significantly from one
period to another. We have benefited over recent years from favorable tax
incentives, inside and outside of the U.S. However, there is no guarantee as to
how long these benefits will continue to exist.

      In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("AJCA") was
signed into law. The AJCA contains a series of provisions, several of which are
pertinent to us. The AJCA creates a temporary incentive for U.S. multi-national
corporations to repatriate accumulated income abroad by providing an 85%
dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign
corporations. Based on this legislation and 2005 guidance by the Department of
Treasury, we repatriated $52 million of foreign earnings. A charge of $7.3
million related to the repatriation is included in income taxes (from continuing
operations) in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. Prior to
the passage of the AJCA, the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries,
with the exception of approximately $40 million, were considered to be
indefinitely reinvested, and in accordance with APB Opinion No. 23 ("APB 23"),
Accounting for Income Taxes - Special Areas, no provision for U.S. federal or
state income taxes had been provided on these undistributed earnings. The
remaining offshore earnings, with the exception of approximately $40 million,
are intended to be indefinitely invested abroad and no provision for U.S.
federal or state income taxes has been provided in accordance with APB 23.

      Except in limited circumstances, we have not provided for U.S. federal
income and foreign withholding taxes on our non-U.S. subsidiaries' undistributed
earnings as per Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 23, Accounting for
Income Taxes - Special Areas. Such earnings include pre-acquisition earnings of
foreign entities acquired through stock purchases, and are intended to be
reinvested outside of the U.S. indefinitely. We have not provided for U.S.
federal income and foreign withholding taxes on approximately $308 million of
our non-U.S. subsidiaries' undistributed earnings (as calculated for income tax
purposes) as of December 30, 2005, as per APB 23. Unrecognized deferred taxes on
these undistributed earnings are estimated to be approximately $102 million.
Where excess cash has accumulated in our non-U.S. subsidiaries and it is
advantageous for tax reasons, subsidiary earnings may be remitted.

Results of Operations

Year ended December 30, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

      Net Sales. Net sales for the year ended December 30, 2005 increased $55.1
million, or 9.8%, to $616.4 million from $561.3 million in the year ended
December 31, 2004. Our sales increase from 2004 was primarily attributable to
the inclusion of LK Products Oy ("LK") net sales from the time of acquisition in
September 2005, the inclusion of Full Rise Electronic Co., Ltd. ("FRE") net
sales from the time we acquired a controlling interest in September 2004, and to
improvement in the markets for AMI Doduco. Pulse's increase in net sales also
reflects the inclusion of LK's net sales from the time of acquisition in
September 2005 and FRE's net sales from the time we acquired a controlling
interest in September 2004. AMI Doduco's increase in net sales was primarily due
to higher prices for precious and non-precious metals, as well as stronger
economic growth and successes in AMI Doduco's efforts to increase its market
share.


                                       23
<PAGE>

      Pulse's net sales increased $41.4 million, or 12.9%, to $361.6 million for
the year ended December 30, 2005 from $320.2 million in the year ended December
31, 2004. Pulse sales benefited from the inclusion of LK's net sales from the
time of acquisition in September 2005 and FRE's net sales for twelve months of
2005. However, sales derived from the consumer division (which are denominated
in euros) were lower than in the 2004 period. Additionally, revenues from
networking, telecommunications, power conversion and military/aerospace markets
were lower overall in 2005 than in 2004.

      AMI Doduco's net sales increased $13.7 million, or 5.7%, to $254.8 million
for the year ended December 30, 2005 from $241.1 million in the year ended
December 31, 2004. The sales benefited from higher prices for precious and
non-precious metals which were passed on to customers. Sales in the 2005 period
reflect improving demand in North America and Europe, and were also favorably
affected by certain increases related to new long-term contracts with major
customers.

      Cost of Sales. Our cost of sales increased $57.5 million, or 13.8%, to
$473.5 million for the year ended December 30, 2005 from $416.0 million for the
year ended December 31, 2004 primarily due to higher net sales. Our consolidated
gross margin for the year ended December 30, 2005 was 23.2%, compared with 25.9%
in the year ended December 31, 2004. Our consolidated gross margin in 2005 was
negatively affected by:

            o   decreased gross margin on Pulse consumer division sales, which
                was negatively impacted by the continuing weak U.S. dollar
                relative to the euro and lower demand for television sets in
                Europe;

            o   increases in statutory minimum wages and social costs in China;
                and

            o   higher costs for pass through materials at AMI Doduco.

These negative impacts on gross margin were partially offset by the higher
capacity utilization at Pulse and AMI Doduco in 2005 versus 2004.

      Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and
administrative expenses for the year ended December 30, 2005 decreased $1.8
million to $106.8 million from $108.6 million for the year ended December 31,
2004. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses
was 17.3% in the year ended December 30, 2005 versus 19.3% in the comparable
period, or a decrease of 2.0% of net sales. Decreased spending was a result of
decreased variable costs such as selling expense and incentive compensation
expense, and fixed costs such as intangible amortization. These expenses were
partially offset by increased research, development and engineering expense, the
inclusion of FRE for the full year of 2005 and the inclusion of LK since the
time of acquisition in September 2005. Incentive compensation expense and
intangible amortization expense, in particular, were $2.6 million and $2.4
million lower, respectively, in 2005 versus the comparable period in 2004.

      Research, development and engineering expenses are included in selling,
general and administrative expenses. We refer to research, development and
engineering expenses as RD&E. For the year ended December 30, 2005 and December
31, 2004 respectively, RD&E by segment was as follows (dollars in thousands):

                                                      2005            2004
                                                  --------        --------
      Pulse                                       $ 21,359        $ 18,420
      Percentage of segment sales                      5.9%            5.8%

      AMI Doduco                                     4,137           4,080
      Percentage of segment sales                      1.6%            1.7%

      Higher RD&E spending in 2005 at Pulse includes additional investments in
our China Development Center, inclusion of FRE RD&E beginning in September 2004,
the inclusion of LK beginning in September 2005 and higher U.S. dollar reported
spending of RD&E expenses incurred in euros. We believe that future sales in the
electronic components markets will be driven by next-generation products. Design
and development activities with our OEM customers continued at an aggressive
pace during 2004 and into 2005.

      Severance and Asset Impairment Expense. Total severance and asset
impairment expense for the year ended December 30, 2005 increased $25.1 million,
to $53.0 million from $27.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The
increase in the 2005 period is primarily attributable to $46.0 million of asset
impairments related to the Consumer Division.


                                       24
<PAGE>

      In the year ended December 30, 2005, we accrued $7.0 million for a number
of actions to streamline operations at Pulse and AMI Doduco. These include $2.3
million related to AMI Doduco's termination of manufacturing and support
personnel at a facility in Italy, $1.0 million related to the consolidation of
factories at FRE, $0.9 million related to Pulse's termination of manufacturing
and support personnel at facilities in Italy and Turkey, $0.5 million related to
the transfer of Pulse consumer division assets from Pulse's facility in Turkey
to China, $0.4 million related to accrue the remaining future lease payments of
the unoccupied portion of AMI Doduco's facility in France, $0.3 million related
to Pulse's termination of a lease in China, $0.2 million related to AMI Doduco's
shutdown of a facility in the United Kingdom, and $1.4 million for severance and
facility closure costs at other locations. The majority of these accruals will
be paid by March 31, 2006, except for remaining lease or severance payments to
be made over a specified term. Additionally, we recorded a $46.0 million
impairment charge of Pulse consumer division assets consisting of $25.6 million
of goodwill, $11.5 million of identifiable intangibles, and $8.9 million of
property, plant, and equipment. These impairments resulted from updated cash
flow projections which reflected the shift of production by Pulse to China-based
locations, decreased average selling prices for television transformers
resulting from competition with Asian companies selling in U.S. dollars, and
weakness in the European television market for flyback transformers.

      In the year ended December 31, 2004, we accrued $9.0 million for severance
and related payments comprised of $3.1 million related to AMI Doduco's
termination of manufacturing and personnel at a facility in Germany, $2.7
million related to the termination of manufacturing and support personnel at an
AMI Doduco facility in France, $1.5 million to write-down the value of certain
Pulse fixed assets to their disposal values, $0.8 million related to Pulse's
shutdown of a facility in Carlsbad, California and $0.9 million for other
severances in various locations. The vast majority of these accruals were
utilized by the end of the second quarter of 2005. Additionally, in the quarter
ended December 31, 2004, we recorded an intangible asset impairment of $18.5
million related to Eldor and Excelsus acquired intangibles and $0.4 million of
other acquired intangibles. These intangible asset impairments resulted from
updated cash flow projections relating to technology and customer relationships,
and reflect, among other things, shifting product mixes, changes among major
customers and continuing pressures on selling prices in the consumer and
telecommunication product divisions of the Pulse segment.

      Interest. Net interest income was $1.4 million for the year ended December
30, 2005 compared to net interest expense of $0.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004. The higher average balance of invested cash in 2005 over the
comparable period in 2004, combined with a higher interest income yield,
resulted in higher interest income. Partially offsetting the increase in
interest income was an increase in interest expense related to outstanding
borrowings from our credit facility and the inclusion of FRE's interest expense.
Recurring aggregate components of interest expense, such as silver leasing fees,
interest on bank debt and bank commitment fees, approximated those of 2004.

      Other (Expense) Income. Other (expense) income was $1.7 million of expense
for the year ended December 30, 2005 versus $2.0 million of income for the year
ended December 31, 2004. The change is primarily attributable to a gain of $1.1
million related to the settlement of equity rights arising from the 2001
acquisition of the Engelhard-CLAL electrical contacts business by AMI Doduco
during the year ended December 31, 2004 and foreign exchange losses were $2.2
million higher in 2005 than in 2004.

      Equity Earnings in Minority-Owned Investments. Equity earnings in
minority-owned investments were $0.8 million for the year ended December 31,
2004. Since we acquired control of FRE in September 2004, we consolidate FRE's
results, and we no longer record equity earnings from FRE. Rather, the full
consolidation of FRE and related minority interest expense is now reflected in
our financial statements.

      Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December
30, 2005 was (36%) compared to 31% for the year ended December 31, 2004. The
2005 effective rate is based on a $6.2 million provision on a $17.3 million
loss, versus a $3.5 million provision on $11.3 million profit in 2004. The tax
rate in 2005 reflects a higher proportion of income being attributable to
high-tax jurisdictions, the impact of non-deductible restructuring expenses in
high-tax jurisdictions, a $7.3 million charge related to the Section 965
dividend and the tax effects of intangible asset impairments.

      Minority Interest. Minority interest was $0.9 million of expense for the
year ended December 30, 2005 versus $0.7 million for the year ended December 31,
2004. Since the date we acquired control of FRE on September 13, 2004, we began
consolidating FRE's results with our own.


                                       25
<PAGE>

Year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 26, 2003

      Net Sales. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $66.4
million, or 13.4%, to $561.3 million from $494.9 million in the year ended
December 26, 2003. Our sales increase from the comparable period last year was
attributable to improvement in the markets for Pulse in the first half of the
year, and for AMI Doduco throughout the year. Pulse's increase in net sales also
reflects the inclusion of FRE net sales from the time we acquired a controlling
interest in September 2004. Stronger demand in Pulse's networking, power
conversion, military/aerospace and consumer division markets was particularly
apparent in the first six months of the year. AMI Doduco's increase in net sales
was primarily due to higher prices for precious metals and favorable translation
effect of a stronger euro, as well as stronger economic growth and successes in
AMI Doduco's efforts to increase its market share.

      Pulse's net sales increased $26.1 million, or 8.9%, to $320.2 million for
the year ended December 31, 2004 from $294.1 million in the year ended December
26, 2003. Pulse sales benefited from the inclusion of FRE's net sales from the
time we acquired a controlling interest in September 2004. Pulse also
experienced revenue increases in networking, telecommunications, power
conversion, military/aerospace and consumer division markets on a worldwide
basis. However, sales derived from the consumer division (which are denominated
in euros) were lower in local currency in the 2004 period, although this was
offset by the favorable translation effect of a stronger euro in 2004, after
translating the consumer division's sales in to U.S. dollars.

      AMI Doduco's net sales increased $40.3 million, or 20.1%, to $241.1
million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $200.8 million in the year
ended December 26, 2003. The sales benefited from an increase in the average
euro-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate and higher prices for precious metals which
were passed on to customers. The higher average euro-to-U.S. dollar exchange
rate during 2004 versus the comparable period in 2003 had the effect of
increasing reported sales by approximately $17.6 million. Sales in the 2004
period reflect improving demand in North America and Europe. The sales
improvements were partially offset by price adjustments related to new long-term
contracts with major customers.

      Cost of Sales. As a result of higher net sales, our cost of sales
increased $53.6 million, or 14.8%, to $416.0 million for the year ended December
31, 2004 from $362.4 million for the year ended December 26, 2003. Our
consolidated gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2004 was 25.9%,
compared with 26.8% in the year ended December 26, 2003. Our consolidated gross
margin in 2004 was negatively affected by:

  o   AMI Doduco accounting for a higher percentage of sales relative to Pulse,
      in that AMI Doduco's products typically have a lower gross margin than
      those of Pulse,

  o   lower average selling prices for most Pulse product lines through 2004;
      and

  o   lower capacity utilization at Pulse in the second half of 2004.

These negative impacts on gross margin were partially offset by the higher
capacity utilization at Pulse and AMI Doduco in the first half of 2004 versus
the comparable period in 2003.

      Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and
administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $10.6
million to $108.6 million from $98.0 million, for the year ended December 26,
2003. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses
was 19.3% in the year ended December 31, 2004 versus 19.8% in the comparable
period, or a decrease of 0.5%. Increased spending was a result of increased
variable costs such as selling commissions and stock compensation expense due to
a higher average share price in 2004, partially offset by restructuring actions
that we took over the last year to reduce expenses and tighten spending
controls. Selling expense and stock compensation expense, in particular, were
$2.6 million and $1.1 million higher, respectively, in 2004 versus the
comparable period in 2003. European expenses that are denominated in euros were
translated to a higher level of U.S. dollars at the higher euro-to-U.S. dollar
exchange rate in 2004. Increased spending was also a result of the inclusion of
FRE expenses in our consolidated results from the time we acquired a controlling
interest in September 2004.


                                       26
<PAGE>

      Research, development and engineering expenses are included in selling,
general and administrative expenses. We refer to research, development and
engineering expenses as RD&E. For the year ended December 31, 2004 and December
26, 2003 respectively, RD&E by segment was as follows (dollars in thousands):

                                                      2004            2003
                                                  --------        --------
      Pulse                                       $ 18,420        $ 14,439
      Percentage of segment sales                      5.8%            4.9%

      AMI Doduco                                     4,080        $  3,933
      Percentage of segment sales                      1.7%            2.0%

      Higher RD&E spending in 2004 at Pulse includes additional investments in
our China Development Center, inclusion of FRE RD&E beginning in September 2004
and higher U.S. dollar reported spending of RD&E expenses incurred in euros. We
believe that future sales in the electronic components markets will be driven by
next-generation products. Design and development activities with our OEM
customers continued at an aggressive pace during 2004 and into 2005.

      Severance and Asset Impairment Expense. Total severance and asset
impairment expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased $18.8 million,
to $27.9 million from $9.1 million for the year ended December 26, 2003. The
increase in the 2004 period is primarily attributable to $18.5 million of
intangible impairments related to Eldor and Excelsus acquired intangibles and
$0.4 million of other acquired intangibles. These intangible asset impairments
resulted from updated cash flow projections relating to technology and customer
relationships, and reflect, among other things, shifting product mixes, changes
among major customers and continuing pressures on selling prices in the consumer
and telecommunication product division of the Pulse segment.

      In the year ended December 31, 2004, we accrued $9.0 million for severance
and related payments comprised of $3.1 million related to AMI Doduco's
termination of manufacturing and personnel at a facility in Germany, $2.7
million related to the termination of manufacturing and support personnel at an
AMI Doduco facility in France, $1.5 million to write-down the value of certain
Pulse fixed assets to their disposal values, $0.8 million related to Pulse's
shutdown of a facility in Carlsbad, California and $0.9 million for other
severances in various locations. The vast majority of these accruals were
utilized by the end of the second quarter in 2005.

      In the year ended December 26, 2003, we accrued $9.1 million in the
aggregate for severance and related payments and asset impairments. At Pulse, we
accrued $1.5 million for the elimination of certain manufacturing and support
positions located in France, the United Kingdom, Mexico and the PRC and $0.8
million for other facility exit costs. We additionally accrued $1.9 million for
shutdown of Pulse's manufacturing facility in Mexico and $0.5 million to
write-down the carrying cost of Pulse's facility in the Philippines which is
held for sale. At AMI Doduco, we accrued $2.9 million for the elimination of
certain manufacturing positions principally located in North America and Germany
and $1.5 million to complete the shutdown of a redundant facility in Spain that
we acquired from Engelhard-CLAL in 2001. The majority of these accruals were
utilized by the end of 2004.

      Interest. Net interest expense was $0.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 compared to net interest expense of $0.7 million for the year
ended December 26, 2003. The average higher balance of invested cash in 2004
over the comparable period in 2003, at a similar interest income yield, resulted
in slightly lower net interest expense. Recurring aggregate components of
interest expense, such as silver leasing fees, interest on bank debt and bank
commitment fees, approximated those of 2003.

      Other Income (Expense). Other income (expense) was $2.0 million of income
for the year ended December 31, 2004 versus $0.5 million of expense for the year
ended December 26, 2003. The change is attributable to a gain of $1.1 million
related to the settlement of equity rights arising from the 2001 acquisition of
the Engelhard-CLAL electrical contacts business for the year ended December 31,
2004 and $1.4 million more in foreign exchange losses during the year ended
December 26, 2003 compared to 2004.

      Equity Earnings in Minority-Owned Investments. Equity earnings in
minority-owned investments were $0.8 million of income for the year ended
December 31, 2004 versus an $8.7 million loss for the year ended December 26,
2003. The net loss in 2003 included a $9.3 million charge to the original cost
basis of our investment in FRE, offset by $0.6 million of equity method
investment earnings in 2003. Since we acquired control of FRE in September 2004,
we consolidate FRE's results, and we no longer record equity earnings from FRE.
Rather, the full consolidation of FRE and related minority interest expense is
now reflected in our financial statements.


                                       27
<PAGE>

      Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December
31, 2004 was 31% compared to 21% for the year ended December 26, 2003. The
higher tax rate in 2004 resulted from a higher proportion of income being
attributable to high-tax jurisdictions, the impact of non-deductible
restructuring expenses in high-tax jurisdictions and the tax effects of
intangible asset impairments.

      Minority Interest. Minority interest was $0.7 million of expense for the
year ended December 31, 2004. Since the date we acquired control of FRE on
September 13, 2004, we began consolidating FRE's results with our own. The net
earnings attributable to the minority interest are reflected as minority
interest expense in the year ended December 31, 2004.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

      Working capital as of December 30, 2005 was $209.8 million, compared to
$238.9 million as of December 31, 2004. This decrease of $29.1 million was
primarily due to increases in accounts payable and the current portion of
long-term debt, which was partially offset by increases in cash and cash
equivalents and trade receivables. Cash and cash equivalents, which are included
in working capital, increased from $156.0 million as of December 31, 2004 to
$173.7 million as of December 30, 2005. The working capital of LK was combined
with our working capital as of the acquisition date in September 2005.

      We present our statement of cash flows using the indirect method as
permitted under Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 95, Statement
of Cash Flows. Our management has found that investors and analysts typically
refer to changes in accounts receivable, inventory, and other components of
working capital when analyzing operating cash flows. Also, changes in working
capital are more directly related to the way we manage our business for cash
flow than are items such as cash receipts from the sale of goods, as would
appear using the direct method.

      Net cash provided by operating activities was $44.6 million for the year
ended December 30, 2005 and $36.8 million in the comparable period of 2004, an
increase of $7.8 million. This increase was attributable to improvements in the
results of operations excluding non-cash depreciation, amortization and asset
impairments in 2005 compared to 2004.

      Capital expenditures were $16.3 million during the year ended December 30,
2005 and $11.0 million in the comparable period of 2004. The increase of $5.3
million in the 2005 period compared to 2004 was due primarily to higher
expenditures at FRE. We make capital expenditures to expand production capacity
and to improve our operating efficiency. We plan to continue making such
expenditures in the future as and when necessary.

      We used $90.0 million for acquisitions during the year ended December 30,
2005 and $5.1 million for acquisitions during year ended December 31, 2004, net
of cash acquired in both years. The 2005 expenditures relate to our acquisition
of LK on September 8, 2005 for $88.0 million, net of cash acquired, and an
additional investment in FRE of $2.0 million. The 2004 expenditures related to
the acquisition by Pulse of a plastics fabrication operation in the PRC for $3.6
million and an investment in FRE of $13.2 million, net of cash acquired of $11.7
million. We may acquire other businesses or product lines to expand our breadth
and scope of operations.

      We used $10.6 million for dividend payments during the year ended December
30, 2005. On October 27, 2005 we announced a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0875
per common share, payable on January 20, 2006 to shareholders of record on
January 2, 2006. This quarterly dividend will result in a cash payment to
shareholders of approximately $3.5 million in the first quarter of 2006. We
expect to continue making quarterly dividend payments for the foreseeable
future. We did not declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock during the
year ended December 31, 2004.

      We entered into a credit agreement on October 14, 2005 providing for
$200.0 million of credit capacity. The facility consists of an aggregate U.S.
dollar-equivalent revolving line of credit in the principal amount of up to
$200.0 million, and provides for borrowings in multiple currencies including but
not limited to, U.S. dollars, euros, and Japanese yen, including individual
sub-limits of:

      --    a U.S. dollar-based swing-line loan not to exceed $20.0 million;

      --    a multicurrency facility providing for the issuance of letters of
            credit in an aggregate amount not to exceed the U.S. dollar
            equivalent of $25.0 million; and

      --    a Singapore sub-facility not to exceed the U.S. dollar equivalent of
            $50.0 million.

      The credit agreement permits us to request one or more increases in the
total commitment not to exceed $100.0 million, provided the minimum increase is
$25.0 million, subject to bank approval.


                                       28
<PAGE>

      The total amount outstanding under the credit facility may not exceed
$200.0 million, provided we do not request an increase in total commitment as
noted above.

      Outstanding borrowings are subject to two financial covenants, which are
both computed on a rolling twelve-month basis as of the most recent quarter-end.
The first is maximum debt outstanding amounting to three and one-half times our
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), as
defined by the credit agreement. The second is maximum debt service expenses
amounting to two and one-half times our cash interest expense, as defined by the
credit agreement.

      The credit agreement also contains covenants specifying capital
expenditure limitations and other customary and normal provisions. As of
December 31, 2005, we had $76.3 million outstanding borrowings under this
five-year revolving credit agreement, primarily to fund the acquisition of ERA
Group. Please refer to Note 20 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. We repaid $50 million on January 20, 2006.

      We pay a commitment fee on the unborrowed portion of the commitment, which
ranges from 0.15% to 0.25% of the total commitment, depending on our
debt-to-EBITDA ratio, as defined above. The interest rate for each currency's
borrowing will be a combination of the base rate for that currency plus a credit
margin spread. The base rate is different for each currency. The credit margin
spread is the same for each currency and is 0.60% to 1.25%, depending on our
debt-to-EBITDA ratio, as defined in the credit agreement. Each of our domestic
subsidiaries with net worth equal to or greater than $10 million has guaranteed
all obligations incurred under the credit facility.

      Simultaneously with the execution of our current credit agreement, we
terminated our previous $125.0 million credit agreement, dated June 17, 2004.

      We also have an obligation outstanding due in August 2009 under an
unsecured term loan agreement in Germany for the borrowing of approximately 5.1
million euros.

      At December 30, 2005, we included $4.2 million of outstanding debt of Full
Rise Electronic Co., Ltd. in connection with our consolidation of FRE's
financial statements. FRE has a total credit limit of approximately $6.7 million
in U.S. dollar equivalents as of December 30, 2005. Neither Technitrol, nor any
of its subsidiaries, has guaranteed or otherwise participated in the credit
facilities of FRE.

      We had three standby letters of credit outstanding at December 30, 2005 in
the aggregate amount of $1.0 million securing transactions entered into in the
ordinary course of business.

      We had commercial commitments outstanding at December 30, 2005 of
approximately $87.8 million due under precious metal consignment-type leases.
This represents an increase of $4.4 million from the $83.4 million outstanding
as of December 31, 2004 and is attributable to the transfer of approximately
$3.0 million of precious metal inventory in China to the lease, overall volume
increases and higher average silver prices during 2005.

      As of December 30, 2005, future payments related to contractual
obligations were as follows (in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         Amounts expected to be paid by period
                            Total   Less than 1 year   1 to 3 years   3 to 5 years   Thereafter
                         --------   ----------------   ------------   ------------   ----------
<S>                      <C>                <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>
      Debt               $ 86,711           $ 54,014       $    366       $ 32,331     $     --
      Operating leases     29,192              8,094         10,719          5,536        4,843
                         --------           --------       --------       --------     --------
      Total              $115,903           $ 62,108       $ 11,085       $ 37,867     $  4,843
                         ========           ========       ========       ========     ========
</TABLE>

      We believe that the combination of cash on hand, cash generated by
operations and, if necessary, borrowings under our credit agreement will be
sufficient to satisfy our operating cash requirements in the foreseeable future.
In addition, we may use internally generated funds or obtain borrowings or
additional equity offerings for acquisitions of suitable businesses or assets.

      All retained earnings are free from legal or contractual restrictions as
of December 30, 2005, with the exception of approximately $16.2 million of
retained earnings primarily in the PRC, that are restricted in accordance with
Section 58 of the PRC Foreign Investment Enterprises Law. Included in the $16.2
million is $1.8 million of retained earnings of FRE of which we own 57%. The
amount restricted in accordance with the PRC Foreign Investment Enterprise Law
is applicable to all foreign investment enterprises doing business in the PRC.
The restriction applies to 10% of our net earnings in the PRC, limited to 50% of
the total capital invested in the PRC. We have not experienced any significant
liquidity restrictions in any country in which we operate and none are foreseen.
However, foreign exchange ceilings imposed by local governments and the
sometimes lengthy approval processes which foreign governments require for
international cash transfers may delay our internal cash movements from time


                                       29
<PAGE>

to time. We expect to reinvest these earnings outside of the United States
because we anticipate that a significant portion of our opportunities for growth
in the coming years will be abroad. If these earnings were brought back to the
United States, significant tax liabilities could be incurred in the United
States as several countries in which we operate have tax rates significantly
lower than the U.S. statutory rate. Additionally, we have not accrued U.S.
income and foreign withholding taxes on foreign earnings that have been
indefinitely invested abroad.

      In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("AJCA") was
signed into law. The AJCA contains a series of provisions, several of which are
pertinent to us. The AJCA creates a temporary incentive for U.S. multi-national
corporations to repatriate accumulated income abroad by providing an 85%
dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign
corporations. Based on this legislation and 2005 guidance by the Department of
Treasury, we repatriated $52 million of foreign earnings. A charge of $7.3
million related to the repatriation is included in income taxes (from continuing
operations) in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. Prior to
the passage of the AJCA, the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries,
with the exception of approximately $40 million, were considered to be
indefinitely reinvested, and in accordance with APB Opinion No. 23 ("APB 23"),
Accounting for Income Taxes - Special Areas, no provision for U.S. federal or
state income taxes had been provided on these undistributed earnings. The
remaining offshore earnings, with the exception of approximately $40 million,
are intended to be indefinitely invested abroad and no provision for U.S.
federal or state income taxes has been provided in accordance with APB 23.

New Accounting Pronouncements

      In March 2005, the FASB issued Financial Interpretation No. 47, Accounting
for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations ("FIN 47"). FIN 47 clarifies the
term, "conditional asset retirement obligation", as used in SFAS No. 143
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which refers to a legal obligation
to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and/or method of
settlement are conditional on a future event. Uncertainty about the timing
and/or method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should
be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information
exists. FIN 47 became effective no later than the end of fiscal years ending
after December 15, 2005. Upon adoption, we recognized an expense of $0.6
million, net of income taxes, as a cumulative effect of accounting change during
the year ended December 31, 2005 in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.

      In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 123(R), Share-Based
Payment, ("SFAS 123(R)"), which amends SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation, and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees. SFAS 123(R) requires compensation expense to be recognized for all
share-based payments made to employees based on the fair value of the award at
the date of grant, eliminating the intrinsic value alternative allowed by SFAS
123. Generally, the approach to determining fair value under the original
pronouncement has not changed, however, there are revisions to the accounting
guidelines established, such as accounting for forfeitures. SFAS 123(R) becomes
effective at the beginning of our fiscal 2006. Adoption of this standard is not
expected to have a material impact on our revenue, operating results, financial
position or liquidity.

      In December 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position No. FAS 109-2 ("FAS
109-2"), Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings
Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creations Act of 2004. The
American Jobs Creation Act ("AJCA") introduces a limited time 85% dividends
received deduction on the repatriation of certain foreign earnings to a U.S.
taxpayer (repatriation provision), provided certain criteria are met. FAS 109-2
provides accounting and disclosure guidance for the repatriation provision.
Based on the AJCA legislation and 2005 guidance by the Department of Treasury,
we decided in the third quarter of 2005 to repatriate $52.0 million of foreign
earnings before the end of 2005. A charge of $7.3 million related to the planned
repatriation was accrued during the year ended December 31, 2005 and is included
in income taxes in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.

      In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 151, Inventory Costs or
Amendment of ARB No.43, Chapter 4 ("SFAS 151"). SFAS 151 provides for certain
fixed production overhead cost to be reflected as a period cost and not
capitalized as inventory. SFAS 151 is effective for the beginning of our fiscal
2006. Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our
revenue, operating results, financial position or liquidity.

Item 7a  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Interest Rate Risk

      Our financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents and
long-term debt, are exposed to changes in interest rates in both the U.S. and
abroad. We invest our excess cash in short-term, investment-grade interest-


                                       30
<PAGE>

bearing securities. We generally limit our exposure to any one financial
institution to the extent practical. Our board has adopted policies relating to
these risks and continually monitors compliance with these policies.

      Our existing credit facility has variable interest rates. Accordingly,
interest expense may increase if we borrow and if the rates associated with our
borrowings move higher. In addition, we may pursue additional or alternative
financing for growth opportunities in one or both segments. We may use interest
rate swaps or other financial derivatives in order to manage the risk associated
with changes in market interest rates. However, we have not used any of these
instruments to date.

      The table below presents principal amounts in U.S. dollars (or equivalent
U.S. dollars with respect to non-U.S. denominated debt) and related weighted
average interest rates by year of maturity for our debt obligations. The column
captioned "Approximate Fair Value" sets forth the carrying value of our
long-term debt as of December 30, 2005, which approximates our fair value at
such date after taking into consideration current rates offered to us under our
credit facility. Additionally, as the majority of our long-term debt was
borrowed in December 2005, we estimate that the carrying amount of our long-term
debt approximates fair value.

      We do not hold or issue financial instruments or derivative financial
instruments for trading purposes (dollars in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                 There-                Approx. Fair
                                           2006       2007      2008        2009        2010      after       Total           Value
                                       --------    -------     -----     -------    --------    -------    --------    ------------
<S>                                    <C>         <C>           <C>     <C>        <C>             <C>    <C>         <C>
Liabilities
Short-term debt
   Fixed rate:
      U.S. Dollar                      $  1,000         --        --          --          --         --    $  1,000    $      1,000
      Renminbi (1)                     $  1,219         --        --          --          --         --    $  1,219    $      1,219
      Weighted average interest rate       5.14%        --        --          --          --         --

   Variable rate:
      U.S. Dollar                      $  1,000         --        --          --          --         --    $  1,000    $      1,000
      Weighted average interest rate       4.72%        --        --          --          --         --

Long-term debt
   Fixed rate:
      Euro (1)                         $    125    $    39        --     $ 6,054          --         --    $  6,218    $      6,218
      U.S. Dollar                      $ 50,000         --        --          --    $  8,500         --    $ 58,500    $     58,500
      Weighted average interest rate       4.91%      8.20%       --        5.65%       5.10%        --

   Variable rate:
      Euro (1)                               --         --        --          --    $ 17,777         --    $ 17,777    $     17,777
      Renminbi (1)                     $    670    $   327        --          --          --         --    $    997    $        997
      Weighted average interest rate       3.72%      3.72%       --          --        3.08%        --
      (1) U.S. dollar equivalent
</TABLE>

Foreign Currency Risk

      As of December 30, 2005, substantially all of our cash was denominated in
U.S. dollars. However, we conduct business in various foreign currencies,
including those of emerging market countries in Asia as well as European
countries. We utilize derivative financial instruments, primarily forward
exchange contracts in connection with fair value hedges, to manage foreign
currency risks. In accordance with SFAS 133, gains and losses related to fair
value hedges are recognized in income along with adjustments of carrying amounts
of the hedged items. Therefore, all of our forward exchange contracts are
marked-to-market, and unrealized gains and losses are included in current period
net income. These contracts guarantee a predetermined rate of exchange at the
time the contract is purchased. This allows us to shift the majority of the risk
of currency fluctuations from the date of the contract to a third party for a
fee. We believe there are two potential risks of holding these instruments. The
first is that the foreign currency being hedged could move in a direction which
could create a better economic outcome than if hedging had not taken place. The
second risk is that the counterparty to a currency hedge defaults on its
obligations. We reduce the risk of counterparty default by entering into
relatively short-term hedges with well capitalized and highly rated banks. In
determining the use of forward exchange contracts, we consider the amount of
sales and purchases made in local currencies, the type of currency and the costs
associated with the contracts. As of December 30, 2005, we had one foreign
currency forward contract outstanding to sell forward 49.9 million euro in order
to hedge intercompany loans. The term of this contract was 30 days.


                                       31
<PAGE>

      The table below provides information about our other non-derivative,
non-U.S. dollar denominated financial instruments and presents the information
in equivalent U.S. dollars. Amounts set forth under "Liabilities" represent
principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year of
maturity for our foreign currency debt obligations. The column captioned
"Approximate Fair Value" sets forth the carrying value of our foreign currency
long-term debt as of December 30, 2005, which approximates our fair value at
such date after taking into consideration current rates offered to us under our
credit facility. Additionally, as the majority of our long-term debt was
borrowed in December 2005, we estimate that the carrying amount of our long-term
debt approximates fair value. (dollars in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                 There-                Approx. Fair
                                           2006       2007      2008        2009        2010      after       Total           Value
                                       --------    -------     -----     -------    --------    -------    --------    ------------
<S>                                    <C>         <C>          <C>      <C>        <C>            <C>     <C>         <C>
Assets
Cash and equivalents
   Variable rate:
      Euro (1)                         $ 69,377         --        --          --          --         --    $ 69,377    $     69,377
      Other currencies (1)             $  8,814         --        --          --          --         --    $  8,814    $      8,814

Liabilities
Short-term debt
   Fixed rate:
     Renminbi(1)                       $  1,219         --        --          --          --         --    $  1,219    $      1,219
      Weighted average interest rate       5.14%        --        --          --          --         --

Long-term debt
   Fixed rate:
      Euro (1)                         $    125    $    39        --     $ 6,054          --         --    $  6,218    $      6,218
      Weighted average interest rate       4.91%      8.20%       --        5.65%         --         --

   Variable rate:
      Euro (1)                               --         --        --          --    $ 17,777         --    $ 17,777    $     17,777
      Renminbi (1)                     $    670    $   327        --          --          --         --    $    997    $        997
      Weighted average interest rate       3.72%      3.72%       --          --        3.08%        --
      (1) U.S. dollar equivalent
</TABLE>

Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

      Information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on page 38 and from the
consolidated financial statements and supplementary schedule on pages 39 through
64.

Item 9  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
        Financial Disclosure

      None

Item 9a  Controls and Procedures

Controls and Procedures

      Based on their evaluation as of December 30, 2005, our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have concluded that our disclosure controls
and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) were effective to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified
in the Commission's rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include,
without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by an issuer in the reports that it files or submits
under the Act is accumulated and communicated to the issuer's management,
including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosure.


                                       32
<PAGE>

Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

      Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). Our management assessed the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December
30, 2005. In making this assessment, our management used the criteria set forth
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("COSO")
in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Our management has concluded that, as
of December 30, 2005, our internal control over financial reporting is effective
based on these criteria. On September 8, 2005, the Company acquired all of the
capital stock of LK Products Oy ("LK"). Management excluded from its assessment
of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting
as of December 30, 2005, LK's internal control over financial reporting, as of
and for the year ended December 30, 2005. LK's total assets and total revenues
represent 18% and 7%, respectively, of the related consolidated financial
statement amounts as of and for the year ended December 30, 2005. Our
independent registered public accounting firm's, KPMG, LLP, audit of internal
control over financial reporting also excluded an evaluation of the internal
control over financial reporting of LK. Our independent registered public
accounting firm has issued an audit report on our assessment of our internal
control over financial reporting, which is included herein.

      There were no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting
during the quarter ended December 30, 2005 that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect our internal controls over financial
reporting.

      Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our
internal controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no
matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not
absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further,
the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource
constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their
costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation
of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances
of fraud, if any, within Technitrol, Inc. have been detected.

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Technitrol, Inc.:

We have audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying
Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that
Technitrol, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 30, 2005, based on criteria
established in Internal Control--Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.


                                       33
<PAGE>

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management's assessment that the Company maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 30, 2005, is fairly
stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal
Control--Integrated Framework issued by COSO. Also, in our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 30, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal
Control--Integrated Framework issued by COSO.

On September 8, 2005, the Company acquired all of the capital stock of LK
Products Oy ("LK"), and management excluded from its assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 30, 2005, LK's internal control over financial reporting associated
with total assets of 18% and total revenues of 7% of the related consolidated
financial statement amounts of the Company as of and for the year ended December
30, 2005. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of the Company
also excluded an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of
LK.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of
Technitrol, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004,
and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows, and changes
in shareholders' equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 30, 2005, and the related financial statement schedule, and our report
dated March 7, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated
financial statements and the financial statements schedule.


/s/KPMG LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
March 7, 2006

Item 9b  Other Matters

      None


                                       34
<PAGE>

                                    Part III

Item 10  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

      The disclosure required by this item is incorporated by reference to the
sections entitled, "Directors and Executive Officers" and "Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in our definitive proxy statement to
be used in connection with our 2006 Annual Shareholders Meeting.

      We make available free of charge within the Investor Information section
of our Internet website, at www.technitrol.com, and in print to any shareholder
who requests, our Statement of Principles Policy and all of our Board and
Committee charters. Requests for copies may be directed to Investor Relations,
Technitrol, Inc., 1210 Northbrook Drive, Suite 470, Trevose, PA 19053-8406, or
telephone 215-355-2900, extension 228. We intend to disclose any amendments to
our Statement of Principles Policy, and any waiver from a provision of our
Statement of Principles Policy, on our Internet website within five business
days following such amendment or waiver. The information contained on or
connected to our Internet website is not incorporated by reference into this
Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we
file with or furnish to the SEC.

Item 11  Executive Compensation

      The disclosure required by this item is incorporated by reference to the
sections entitled, "Executive Compensation," "Retirement Plan," "Executive
Employment Arrangements," "Compensation of Non-Employee Directors," "Board Stock
Ownership," "Report of Executive Compensation Committee on Compensation
Policies," "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation," and
"Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return" in our definitive proxy
statement to be used in connection with our 2006 Annual Shareholders Meeting.

Item 12  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
         Related Stockholder Matters

      The disclosure required by this item is (i) included under Part II, Item
5, and (ii) incorporated by reference to the sections entitled, "Persons Owning
More Than Five Percent of Our Stock" and "Stock Owned by Directors and Officers"
in our definitive proxy statement to be used in connection with our 2006 Annual
Shareholders Meeting.

      Information as of December 30, 2005 concerning plans under which our
equity securities are authorized for issuance are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   Number of shares to be
                                   issued upon exercise of
                                      options, grant of        Weighted average exercise    Number of securities
                                    restricted shares or         price of outstanding       remaining available
Plan Category                      other incentive shares               options             for future issuance
- -------------                      -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>                            <C>                     <C>
Equity compensation plans
approved by security holders               6,005,000                      $19.31                  3,015,225

Equity compensation plans not
approved by security holders                       0                           0                          0

Total                                      6,005,000                      $19.31                  3,015,225
</TABLE>

      On May 15, 1981, our shareholders approved an incentive compensation plan
(ICP) intended to enable us to obtain and retain the services of employees by
providing them with incentives that may be created by the Board of Directors
Compensation Committee under the ICP. Subsequent amendments to the plan were
approved by our shareholders including an amendment on May 23, 2001 which
increased the total number of shares of our common stock which may be granted
under the plan to 4,900,000 shares. Our 2001 Stock Option Plan and the
Restricted Stock Plan II were adopted under the ICP. In addition to the ICP,
plans approved by us include a 105,000 share Board of Director Stock Plan and an
Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The maximum number of shares which may be issued
under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan is 1,000,000 shares, provided, however,
that such amount will be automatically increased annually beginning on August 1,
2002 in an amount equal to the lesser of (a) 200,000 shares or, (b) two percent
(2%) of the outstanding common stock as of the last day of the prior fiscal year
or alternatively (c) such an amount as may be determined by our board of
directors. In 2003, our board of directors determined that no increase for 2003
or 2004 should be made. During 2004, the operation of the ESPP was suspended
following an


                                       35
<PAGE>

evaluation of its affiliated expense and perceived value by employees. Of the
3,015,225 shares remaining available for future issuance, 2,155,246 shares are
attributable to our Restricted Stock Plan and our Stock Option Plan, 812,099
shares are attributable to our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and 47,880 shares
are attributable to our Board of Director Stock Plan. Note 11 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements contains additional information regarding our
stock based compensation plans.

Item 13  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

      None

Item 14  Principal Accountant Fees and Services

      The disclosure required by this item is incorporated by reference to the
section entitled "Audit and Other Fees Paid to Independent Accountants" in our
definitive proxy statement to be used in connection with our 2006 Annual
Shareholders Meeting.


                                       36
<PAGE>

                                     Part IV

Item 15  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule

     (a) Documents filed as part of this report

            Financial Statements

      Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

      Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004

      Consolidated Statements of Operations - Years ended December 30, 2005,
        December 31, 2004 and December 26, 2003

      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - Years ended December 30, 2005,
        December 31, 2004 and December 26, 2003

      Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity - Years ended
        December 30, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 26, 2003

      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

            Financial Statement Schedule

            Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

     (b) Exhibits

      Information required by this item is contained in the "Exhibit Index"
      found on page 65 through 68 of this report.


                                       37
<PAGE>

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Technitrol, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Technitrol, Inc.
and subsidiaries  (the "Company") as of December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004,
and the related consolidated  statements of operations,  cash flows, and changes
in  shareholders'  equity for each of the years in the  three-year  period ended
December 30, 2005. In connection with our audits of the  consolidated  financial
statements,  we also have audited financial statement Schedule II, Valuation and
Qualifying Accounts.  These consolidated  financial statements and the financial
statement  schedule are the  responsibility  of the  Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  financial
statements and the financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant  estimates  made by  management,  as well as evaluating  the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Technitrol, Inc. and
subsidiaries  as of December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004,  and the results of
their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the years in the  three-year
period ended  December 30, 2005,  in  conformity  with U.S.  generally  accepted
accounting  principles.  Also, in our opinion,  the related financial  statement
schedule,  when  considered  in  relation  to the basic  consolidated  financial
statements taken as a whole,  presents  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the
information set forth therein.

We have also  audited,  in accordance  with the standards of the Public  Company
Accounting  Oversight Board (United  States),  the  effectiveness of Technitrol,
Inc.'s internal control over financial  reporting as of December 30, 2005, based
on criteria established in Internal  Control-Integrated  Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our
report dated March 7, 2006  expressed  an  unqualified  opinion on  management's
assessment of, and the effective  operation of, internal  control over financial
reporting.

As discussed in Note 19 to the consolidated  financial statements,  in 2005, the
Company  adopted  Financial  Interpretation  No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional
Asset Retirement Obligations.


/s/KPMG LLP

Philadelphia, PA
March 7, 2006


                                       38
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                           Consolidated Balance Sheets

                     December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004
                       In thousands, except per share data

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      Assets                                              2005         2004
                                                                                     ---------    ---------
<S>                                                                                  <C>          <C>
Current assets:
      Cash and cash equivalents                                                      $ 173,664    $ 155,952
      Trade receivables, net                                                           136,115      109,652
      Inventories                                                                       73,598       77,481
      Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                         20,174       21,883
                                                                                     ---------    ---------
             Total current assets                                                      403,551      364,968

Property, plant and equipment                                                          212,390      233,563
      Less accumulated depreciation                                                    119,492      131,387
                                                                                     ---------    ---------
             Net property, plant and equipment                                          92,898      102,176
Deferred income taxes                                                                   13,079       17,873
Goodwill, net                                                                          142,881      126,178
Other intangibles, net                                                                  31,648       22,685
Other assets                                                                             2,245        2,648
                                                                                     ---------    ---------
                                                                                     $ 686,302    $ 636,528
                                                                                     =========    =========

                       Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity
Current liabilities:
      Current installments of long-term debt                                         $  50,795    $     130
      Short-term debt                                                                    3,219        6,717
      Accounts payable                                                                  67,929       48,655
      Accrued expenses and other current liabilities                                    71,767       70,568
                                                                                     ---------    ---------
             Total current liabilities                                                 193,710      126,070

Long-term liabilities:
      Long-term debt, excluding current installments                                    32,697        7,125
      Deferred income taxes                                                             13,925        8,975
      Other long-term liabilities                                                       14,680       14,766

Commitments and contingencies (Note 7)
Minority interest                                                                       12,626       14,730
Shareholders' equity:
      Common stock: 175,000,000 shares authorized; 40,529,151 and 40,447,955
        outstanding in 2005 and 2004, respectively; $0.125 par value per share and
        additional paid-in capital                                                     215,560      213,694
      Retained earnings                                                                200,108      239,752
      Deferred compensation                                                             (1,234)      (1,968)
      Other comprehensive income                                                         4,230       13,384
                                                                                     ---------    ---------
             Total shareholders' equity                                                418,664      464,862
                                                                                     ---------    ---------
                                                                                     $ 686,302    $ 636,528
                                                                                     =========    =========
</TABLE>

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                       39
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                      Consolidated Statements of Operations

     Years ended December 30, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 26, 2003
                       In thousands, except per share data

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              2005         2004         2003
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>          <C>
Net sales                                                $ 616,378    $ 561,298    $ 494,856
Cost of sales                                              473,535      415,966      362,356
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
   Gross profit                                            142,843      145,332      132,500
Selling, general and administrative expenses               106,797      108,618       98,030
Severance and asset impairment expense                      53,036       27,851        9,051
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
   Operating (loss) profit                                 (16,990)       8,863       25,419
Other (expense) income:
   Interest income                                           3,480        1,550        1,134
   Interest expense                                         (2,128)      (1,888)      (1,873)
   Other, net                                               (1,690)       1,979         (493)
   Equity method investment earnings (loss)                     --          787       (8,660)
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
(Loss) earnings from continuing operations before
   income taxes, minority interest, and cumulative
   effect of  accounting change                            (17,328)      11,291       15,527
Income taxes                                                 6,161        3,529        3,194
Minority interest expense                                      939          655           --
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
(Loss) earnings from continuing operations
    before cumulative effect of accounting change          (24,428)       7,107       12,333
Cumulative effect of accounting
    change, net of income taxes                               (564)          --           --
Net (loss) from discontinued operations                       (472)        (179)        (345)
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------

Net (loss) earnings                                      $ (25,464)   $   6,928    $  11,988
                                                         =========    =========    =========

Per share data:
   Basic (loss) earnings per share:
     (Loss) earnings from continuing operations before
      cumulative effect of accounting change             $   (0.61)   $    0.18    $    0.31
     Cumulative effect of accounting
      change, net of income taxes                            (0.01)          --           --
                                                                      ---------    ---------
     Net (loss) from discontinued operations                 (0.01)       (0.01)       (0.01)
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
     Net (loss) earnings                                 $   (0.63)   $    0.17    $    0.30
                                                         =========    =========    =========

   Diluted (loss) earnings per share:
     (Loss) earnings from continuing operations before
      cumulative effect of accounting change             $   (0.61)   $    0.18    $    0.31
     Cumulative effect of accounting
      change, net of income taxes                            (0.01)          --           --
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
     Net (loss) from discontinued operations                 (0.01)       (0.01)       (0.01)
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
     Net (loss) earnings                                 $   (0.63)   $    0.17    $    0.30
                                                         =========    =========    =========
</TABLE>

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                       40
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

     Years ended December 30, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 26, 2003
                                  In thousands

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                  2005         2004         2003
                                                                                             ---------    ---------    ---------
<S>                                                                                          <C>          <C>          <C>
Cash flows from operating activities-continuing operations:
   Net (loss) earnings                                                                       $ (25,464)   $   6,928    $  11,988
   Adjustments to reconcile net (loss) earnings to net cash provided by operating
     activities:
       Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes                                             472          179          345
       Depreciation and amortization                                                            22,158       23,945       23,355
       Tax effect of stock compensation                                                            (37)        (117)        (123)
       Amortization of stock incentive plan expense                                              3,562        3,482        2,114
       Minority interest in net earnings of consolidated subsidiary                                939          655           --
       Loss on disposal or sale of assets                                                       10,660          941        1,882
       Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes                                 564           --           --
       Intangible asset impairment, net of income taxes                                         37,047       16,301           --
       Deferred taxes                                                                            7,749       (2,553)      (1,950)
       Severance and asset impairment expense, net of cash payments (excluding loss on
         disposal of assets and intangible asset impairments, net of taxes)                      1,137        1,881        1,841
       Equity method investment (earnings) loss                                                     --         (787)       8,660
       Inventory write-downs                                                                     5,334        6,106        5,936
       Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effect of acquisitions and divestitures:
           Trade receivables                                                                   (19,381)       5,861          183
           Inventories                                                                          (2,787)      (9,449)       3,913
           Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                             1,592         (238)       2,310
           Accounts payable                                                                     18,277       (8,895)         648
           Accrued expenses                                                                    (14,798)      (5,143)      (5,718)
       Other, net                                                                               (2,455)      (2,319)        (708)
                                                                                             ---------    ---------    ---------
           Net cash provided by operating activities                                            44,569       36,778       54,676
                                                                                             ---------    ---------    ---------
Cash flows from investing activities-continuing operations:
   Acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $357, $11,700 and $2,000 in 2005, 2004 and
      2003, respectively                                                                       (90,012)      (5,088)     (83,860)
   Proceeds from sale of business                                                                6,724           --           --
   Capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions                                                (16,253)     (10,945)      (7,742)
   Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment                                           2,009        1,001          482
   Foreign currency impact on intercompany lending                                               8,868       (6,407)     (12,235)
                                                                                             ---------    ---------    ---------
       Net cash used in investing activities                                                   (88,664)     (21,439)    (103,355)
Cash flows from financing activities-continuing operations:
   Principal payments on short-term debt, net                                                   (3,498)        (152)     (11,688)
   Long-term borrowings                                                                         77,119           39           --
   Dividends paid                                                                              (10,634)          --           --
   Exercise of stock options                                                                        --           23           88
   Sale of stock through employee stock purchase plan                                               --          652          951
                                                                                             ---------    ---------    ---------
       Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities                                      62,987          562      (10,649)
                                                                                             ---------    ---------    ---------
Net effect of exchange rate changes on cash                                                     (1,101)         123       (2,773)
                                                                                             ---------    ---------    ---------
Cash flows of discontinued operations:
   Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities                                             (72)      (3,473)         483
   Net cash (used in) investing activities                                                          (7)         (47)          (9)
                                                                                             ---------    ---------    ---------
       Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations           (79)      (3,520)         474
                                                                                             ---------    ---------    ---------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                            17,712       12,504      (61,627)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year                                                 155,952      143,448      205,075
                                                                                             ---------    ---------    ---------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year                                                     $ 173,664    $ 155,952    $ 143,448
                                                                                             =========    =========    =========
</TABLE>

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                       41
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

           Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity

     Years ended December 30, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 26, 2003
                       In thousands, except per share data

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                  Other
                                                                                         -----------------------
                                                                                                         Accumu-
                                                                                                     lated other
                                                     Common stock and                                    compre-      Compre-
                                                     paid-in capital                     Deferred        hensive      hensive
                                                  ----------------------     Retained     compen-         income       income
                                                    Shares       Amount      earnings      sation         (loss)       (loss)
                                                  ---------    ---------    ---------    --------    -----------    ---------
<S>                                                  <C>       <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>            <C>
Balance at December 27, 2002                         40,130    $ 207,033    $ 220,836    $ (1,177)   $    (4,315)
Stock options, awards and related compensation           79        1,906           --        (165)            --
Tax effect of stock compensation                         --         (123)          --          --             --
Stock issued under employee stock purchase plan          70          952           --          --             --
Currency translation adjustments                         --           --           --          --         11,815    $  11,815
Net earnings                                             --           --       11,988          --             --       11,988
                                                                                                                    ---------
Comprehensive income                                                                                                $  23,803
                                                  ---------    ---------    ---------    --------    -----------    =========
Balance at December 26, 2003                         40,279    $ 209,768    $ 232,824    $ (1,342)   $     7,500
                                                  =========    =========    =========    ========    ===========
Stock options, awards and related compensation          124    $   3,351    $      --    $   (626)   $        --
Tax effect of stock compensation                         --         (117)          --          --             --
Stock issued under employee stock purchase plan          45          692           --          --             --
Currency translation adjustments                         --           --           --          --          6,039    $   6,039
Minimum pension liability adjustment                     --           --           --          --           (158)        (158)
Unrealized holding gains on securities                   --           --           --          --              3            3
Net earnings                                             --           --        6,928          --             --        6,928
                                                                                                                    ---------
Comprehensive income                                                                                                $  12,812
                                                  ---------    ---------    ---------    --------    -----------    =========
Balance at December 31, 2004                         40,448    $ 213,694    $ 239,752    $ (1,968)   $    13,384
                                                  =========    =========    =========    ========    ===========
Stock options, awards and related compensation           81    $   1,903    $      --    $    734    $        --
Tax effect of stock compensation                         --          (37)          --                         --           --
Currency translation adjustments                         --           --           --          --         (9,156)   $  (9,156)
Unrealized holding gains on securities                   --           --           --          --              2            2
Net loss                                                 --           --      (25,464)                        --      (25,464)
                                                                                                                    ---------
Comprehensive loss                                                                                                  $ (34,618)
                                                                                                                    =========
Dividends declared ($0.35 per share)                     --           --      (14,180)         --             --
                                                  ---------    ---------    ---------    --------    -----------
Balance at December 30, 2005                         40,529    $ 215,560    $ 200,108    $ (1,234)   $     4,230
                                                  =========    =========    =========    ========    ===========
</TABLE>

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                                       42
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(1)   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

      The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Technitrol,
Inc. and all of our subsidiaries. We sometimes refer to Technitrol as "we" or
"our". All material intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in
consolidation.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

      Cash and cash equivalents include funds invested in a variety of liquid
short-term investments with an original maturity of three months or less.

Inventories

      Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined
by the first-in, first-out method. We establish inventory provisions to
write-down excess and obsolete inventory to market value. Inventory that is
written down to market in the ordinary course of business is not written back up
after a write-down. Inventory provisions are utilized when the actual inventory
is physically disposed. Cash flows from the sale of inventory are recorded in
operating cash flows. The provisions are determined by comparing quantities
on-hand to historical usage and forecasted demand. Inventory reserves at
December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004 were $11.5 million and $11.1 million,
respectively.

Property, Plant and Equipment

      Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is based
upon the estimated useful life of the assets on both the accelerated and the
straight-line methods. Estimated useful lives of assets range from 5 to 30 years
for buildings and improvements and from 3 to 10 years for machinery and
equipment. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as
incurred, and major renewals and betterments are capitalized. Upon sale or
retirement, the cost of the asset and related accumulated depreciation are
removed from our balance sheet, and any resulting gains or losses are included
in earnings.

Goodwill and Other Intangibles

      SFAS 142 requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite
useful lives be tested for impairment at least annually. SFAS 142 also requires
that other intangible assets with definite useful lives be amortized over their
respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and
reviewed for impairment in accordance with SFAS 144. We amortize other
intangibles, except those with indefinite lives, on a straight-line basis over 4
to 10 years. See Note 2 and Note 16 for additional information regarding
goodwill and other intangible assets.

Revenue Recognition

      Revenue is recognized upon shipment of product and passage of title
without right of return, after all performance factors have been met. We are not
subject to any significant customer acceptance provisions. All product returns
are deducted from net sales and are accrued for based on historical experience
and Financial Accounting Standard No. 48, "Revenue Recognition When Right of
Return Exists." Warranties are limited to rework, replacement of products and
other normal remedies. We record an allowance for doubtful receivables. Accounts
receivable allowances at December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004 were $1.7
million and $1.7 million, respectively.

Stock-based Compensation

      We currently sponsor a stock option plan and a restricted stock award
plan. We adopted SFAS 123, as amended by SFAS 148, at the beginning of the 2003
fiscal year. We implemented SFAS 123 under the prospective method approach per
SFAS 148, whereby compensation expense was recorded for all awards subsequent to
adoption. As permitted by the provisions of SFAS 123, we applied Accounting
Principles Board Opinion 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and
related interpretations in accounting for our stock option and purchase plans
prior to adoption of SFAS 123 in fiscal 2003. Accordingly, no compensation cost
was recognized for our stock option and employee purchase plans prior to fiscal
2003 as all stock options granted under the plan had an exercise price equal to
the fair value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. The value of
restricted stock has always been and continues to be recorded as compensation
expense over the restricted period, and such expense is included in the results
of operations for all years presented.


                                       43
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(1)   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, continued

      If compensation cost for issuances under our stock option plan and stock
purchase plan had been determined based on the fair value as required by SFAS
123 for all awards, our pro forma net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per
basic and diluted share would have been as follows (in thousands, except per
share amounts):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        2005         2004          2003
                                                                  ----------    ---------    ----------
<S>                                                               <C>           <C>          <C>
Net (loss) earnings, as reported                                  $  (25,464)   $   6,928    $   11,988
Add: Stock-based compensation expense included in reported net
    income (loss), net of taxes                                        1,924        1,944         1,269
Deduct: Total stock-based compensation expense determined under
    fair value based method for all awards, net of taxes              (2,494)      (2,764)       (2,124)
                                                                  ----------    ---------    ----------
Net (loss) earnings adjusted                                      $  (26,034)   $   6,108    $   11,133

Basic net income (loss) - as reported                             $    (0.63)   $    0.17    $     0.30
Basic net income (loss) - adjusted                                $    (0.65)   $    0.15    $     0.28
Diluted net income (loss) - as reported                           $    (0.63)   $    0.17    $     0.30
Diluted net income (loss) - adjusted                              $    (0.65)   $    0.15    $     0.28
</TABLE>

      At December 30, 2005, we had approximately 475,000 options outstanding,
representing approximately 1% of our outstanding shares of common stock.

Foreign Currency Translation

      Certain of our foreign subsidiaries use the U.S. dollar as a functional
currency and others use a local currency. For subsidiaries using the U.S. dollar
as the functional currency, non-U.S. dollar monetary assets and liabilities are
remeasured at year-end exchange rates while non-monetary items are remeasured at
historical rates. Income and expense accounts are remeasured at the average
rates in effect during the year, except for depreciation that is remeasured at
historical rates. Gains or losses from changes in exchange rates are recognized
in earnings in the period of occurrence. For subsidiaries using a local currency
as the functional currency, net assets are translated at year-end rates while
income and expense accounts are translated at average exchange rates.
Adjustments resulting from these translations are reflected as currency
translation adjustments in shareholders' equity.

Financial Instruments and Derivative Financial Instruments

      The carrying value of our cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable,
short-term borrowings, accounts payable and accrued expenses are a reasonable
estimate of their fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
The carrying value of our long-term debt approximates our fair value after
taking into consideration current rates offered to us under our credit facility.
Additionally, as the majority of our long-term debt was borrowed in December
2005, we estimate that the carrying amount of our long-term debt approximates
fair value. We do not hold or issue financial instruments or derivative
financial instruments for trading purposes.

      We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign
currency exchange rates and precious metal prices. To mitigate the risk from
these changes, we periodically enter into hedging transactions which have been
authorized pursuant to our policies and procedures. In accordance with SFAS 133,
gains and losses related to fair value hedges are recognized in income along
with adjustments of carrying amounts of the hedged item. Therefore, all of our
forward exchange contracts are marked-to-market, and unrealized gains and losses
are included in current-period net income. At December 30, 2005 we had one
foreign currency forward contract outstanding to sell forward 49.9 million of
euro in order to hedge intercompany loans. At December 31, 2004, we had one
foreign exchange contract in place to sell forward approximately 58.8 million of
euro in connection with hedging intercompany loans.

Precious Metal Consignment-type Leases

      We had custody of inventories under consignment-type leases from suppliers
of $87.8 million at December 30, 2005 and $83.4 million at December 31, 2004.
The increase is the result of the transfer of approximately $3.0 million of
precious metal inventory in China to the lease, overall volume increases and
higher silver prices at December 30, 2005 than at December 31, 2004. We have
four consignment-type leases in place for sourcing all precious metals and the
related inventory and liability are not recorded on our balance sheet. The
agreements are generally one-year in duration and can be extended with annual
renewals and either party can terminate the agreements with 30 days written
notice. The primary covenant in each of the agreements is a prohibition against
us creating security interests in the consigned


                                       44
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(1)   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, continued

metals. Included in interest expense for the year ended December 30, 2005 were
consignment fees of $1.1 million. These consignment fees were $1.0 million and
$0.8 million in the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 26, 2003,
respectively.

Estimates

      Our preparation of financial statements is in conformity with what
generally accepted accounting principles require and we make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ significantly from those
estimates.

Reclassifications

      Certain amounts in the prior-year financial statements have been
reclassified to conform with the current-year presentation. Also refer to Note
15 "Equity Method Investment" and Note 18 "Discontinued Operations."

(2)   Acquisitions

      LK Products OY: On September 8, 2005, we acquired all of the capital stock
of LK Products OY ("LK"), headquartered in Kempele, Finland with production
operations in Finland, China and Hungary as well as offices in South Korea and
San Diego. The results of LK's operations have been included in our consolidated
financial statements since that date. LK produces antennas and integrated
modules for mobile communications and information devices and will be the
cornerstone of Pulse's antenna products division. The purchase price was
approximately $88.0 million, net of cash acquired of $0.4 million, and including
acquisition costs of approximately $2.2 million. The purchase price was funded
with cash on hand. The purchase agreement also includes a revenue-based earnout
provision whereby we will pay the seller one euro for each euro of revenue in
excess of (euro)85.0 million achieved by LK during the twelve months ended May
31, 2006. This payment will be included as goodwill, when and if paid. The
preliminary fair value of the net tangible assets acquired approximated $18.4
million. In addition to the fair value of assets acquired, preliminary purchase
price allocations included $15.7 million for customer relationships, $7.3
million for trademarks, $1.4 million for technology and $45.6 million allocated
to goodwill. Each of the definite-lived identifiable intangibles are being
amortized, with useful lives of 5 years for technology and 10 years for customer
relationships. We consider the trademark intangible to have an indefinite life,
and therefore, it is not being amortized. These fair values are preliminary and
subject to adjustment. LK will be treated as a separate reporting unit for
purposes of SFAS 142. The following table summarizes the preliminary fair values
of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition (in
millions):

                     Current assets                   $ 28.1
                     Property, plant & equipment        17.8
                     Identifiable intangibles           24.4
                     Goodwill                           45.6
                                                      ------
                          Total assets acquired       $115.9

                     Current liabilities              $ 22.1
                     Long-term liabilities               5.4
                                                      ------
                          Total liabilities assumed     27.5

                          Net assets acquired         $ 88.4
                                                      ======

      Had the acquisition of LK occurred on December 27, 2003, our unaudited pro
forma results would have been as follows (in millions, except per share
amounts):

      <TABLE>
      <CAPTION>
                                                                           2005       2004
                                                                        -------    -------
      <S>                                                               <C>        <C>
      Net sales                                                         $ 679.5    $ 653.3
      Net (loss) earnings from continuing operations                      (23.3)      15.7
      Net (loss) earnings from continuing operations per common share
           Basic                                                          (0.58)      0.39
           Diluted                                                        (0.58)      0.39
      </TABLE>


                                       45
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(2)   Acquisitions, continued

      The pro forma results reflect adjustments for the increased amortization
and the reduction in interest income attributable to the acquisition. Potential
cost savings, however, from combining LK with our operations are not reflected.
For this and other reasons, the pro forma results are not indicative of the
results that would have occurred had the acquisition actually been consummated
on December 27, 2003, and are not intended to be a projection of future results
or trends.

      Full Rise Electronic Co., Ltd. (FRE): FRE is based in the Republic of
China (Taiwan) and manufactures connector products, including single and
multiple-port jacks, and supplies products to us under a cooperation agreement.
In April 2001, we made a minority investment in the common stock of FRE, which
was accounted for by the cost-basis method of accounting. On July 27, 2002, we
made an additional investment in FRE of $6.7 million which increased the total
investment to $20.9 million. As a result of the increased ownership percentage
to approximately 29%, we began to account for the investment under the equity
method of accounting beginning in the three months ended September 27, 2002.
Shares of FRE began trading on the Taiwan Stock Exchange in January 2003, and
they experienced considerable price volatility. In the three months ended
December 26, 2003, we recorded an $8.7 million net loss to adjust our original
cost basis of the investment to market value. In July 2004, we purchased an
additional 9.0 million shares of common stock in FRE for $10.5 million. On
September 13, 2004, we acquired an additional 2.4 million shares of common stock
in FRE for $2.5 million, bringing our ownership percentage up to 51%.
Accordingly, FRE's operating results were consolidated with our own beginning
September 13, 2004. Our net earnings therefore reflect FRE's net earnings, after
deducting the minority interest due to the minority shareholders. During the
year ended December 30, 2005, we acquired an additional 2.8 million shares of
common stock in FRE for $2.0 million, bringing our ownership percentage up to
57%. Additional purchases of common stock in FRE are allocated, on a pro rata
basis, to goodwill, identifiable intangible assets, and property, plant, and
equipment according to amounts recorded as of September 13, 2004. The fair value
of the net tangible assets acquired through September 13, 2004 approximated
$28.8 million, less a minority interest of $14.0 million. Based on the fair
value of net tangible assets acquired and our current ownership percentage, the
allocation of the investment to intangibles includes $0.5 million for
technology, $0.6 million for trademarks, $2.1 million for customer relationships
and $10.7 million of goodwill. All of the separately identifiable intangibles
are being amortized, with useful lives of 4 years for technology and customer
relationships.

(3)   Financial Statement Details

      The following provides details for certain financial statement captions at
December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004 (in thousands):

                                                             2005          2004
                                                         --------      --------
Inventories:
      Finished goods                                     $ 29,113      $ 27,394
      Work in progress                                     19,130        20,312
      Raw materials and supplies                           25,355        29,775
                                                         --------      --------
                                                         $ 73,598      $ 77,481
                                                         ========      ========
Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
      Land                                               $  4,313      $  4,771
      Buildings and improvements                           43,990        44,492
      Machinery and equipment                             164,087       184,300
                                                         --------      --------
                                                         $212,390      $233,563
                                                         ========      ========
Accrued expenses:
      Income taxes payable                               $ 20,217      $ 29,826
      Accrued compensation                                 18,358        15,610
      Other accrued expenses                               33,192        25,132
                                                         --------      --------
                                                         $ 71,767      $ 70,568
                                                         ========      ========


                                       46
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(4)   Debt

      At December 30, 2005, short-term and long-term debt was as follows (in
thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Short-term Debt

   Bank Loans                                                                                          2005
                                                                                                  ---------
<S>                                                                                               <C>
   Fixed-rate, (5.12%) unsecured debt in China (denominated in Renminbi) due 2006                 $     617
   Fixed-rate, (5.20 %) unsecured debt in China (denominated in Renminbi) due 2006                      602
   Fixed-rate, (4.88%) unsecured debt in China (denominated in US Dollars) due 2006                     500
   Fixed-rate, (5.33%) unsecured debt in China (denominated in US Dollars) due 2006                     500
   Variable-rate, (4.72%) unsecured debt in China (denominated in US Dollars) due 2006                1,000
                                                                                                  ---------
   Total short-term debt                                                                          $   3,219
                                                                                                  =========
Long-term Debt

Bank Loans
   Variable-rate, (3.72%) unsecured debt in China (denominated in Renminbi) due 2007              $     997
   Variable-rate, (3.08 %) unsecured debt in Germany (denominated in euros) due 2010                 17,777
   Fixed-rate, (5.65%) unsecured debt in Germany (denominated in euros) due 2009                      6,054
   Fixed-rate, (5.10%) unsecured debt in Hong Kong (denominated in US Dollars) due 2010               8,500
   Fixed-rate, (4.97%) unsecured debt in Hong Kong (denominated in US Dollars) due 2010              50,000

Mortgage Notes
   8.20% - 10.32% mortgage notes, due in monthly installments until 2007                                164
                                                                                                  ---------
   Total long-term debt                                                                              83,492
   Less current installments                                                                         50,795
                                                                                                  ---------
   Long-term debt excluding current installments                                                  $  32,697
                                                                                                  =========
</TABLE>

       At December 31, 2004, short-term and long-term debt was as follows
(in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Short-term Debt

  Bank Loans                                                                                           2004
                                                                                                  ---------
<S>                                                                                               <C>
    Fixed-rate, (2.10%) secured debt in China (denominated in US Dollars) due 2005                $   1,000
    Fixed-rate, (4.79%) unsecured debt in China (denominated in US Dollars) due 2005                    870
    Fixed-rate, (1.92%) unsecured debt in China (denominated in US Dollars) due 2005                    823
    Fixed-rate, (5.54%) unsecured debt in China (denominated in Renminbi) due 2005                    1,850
    Fixed-rate, (1.90%) unsecured debt in Taiwan (denominated in New Taiwan Dollars) due 2005           932
    Fixed-rate, (5.84%) unsecured debt in China (denominated in Renminbi) due 2005                      242
    Variable-rate, (1.92%) unsecured debt in China (denominated in US Dollars) due 2005               1,000
                                                                                                  ---------
    Total short-term debt                                                                         $   6,717
                                                                                                  =========

Long-term Debt

  Bank Loans
    Fixed-rate, (5.65%) unsecured debt in Germany (denominated in euros) due August 2, 2009       $   6,937

  Mortgage Notes, secured by mortgages on land, buildings, and certain equipment:
    8.20% - 10.32% mortgage notes, due in monthly installments until 2007                               318
                                                                                                  ---------
    Total long-term debt                                                                              7,255
    Less current installments                                                                           130
                                                                                                  ---------
    Long-term debt excluding current installments                                                 $   7,125
                                                                                                  =========
</TABLE>


                                       47
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(4)   Debt, continued

      We entered into a credit agreement on October 14, 2005 providing for
$200.0 million of credit capacity. The facility consists of an aggregate U.S.
dollar-equivalent revolving line of credit in the principal amount of up to
$200.0 million, and provides for borrowings in multiple currencies including but
not limited to, U.S. dollars, euros, and Japanese yen, including individual
sub-limits of:

      --    a U.S. dollar-based swing-line loan not to exceed $20.0 million;

      --    a multicurrency facility providing for the issuance of letters of
            credit in an aggregate amount not to exceed the U.S. dollar
            equivalent of $25.0 million; and

      --    a Singapore sub-facility not to exceed the U.S. dollar equivalent of
            $50.0 million.

      The credit agreement permits us to request one or more increases in the
total commitment not to exceed $100.0 million, provided the minimum increase is
$25.0 million, subject to bank approval.

      The total amount outstanding under the credit facility may not exceed
$200.0 million, provided we do not request an increase in total commitment as
noted above.

      Outstanding borrowings are subject to two financial covenants, which are
both computed on a rolling twelve-month basis as of the most recent quarter-end.
The first is maximum debt outstanding amounting to three and one-half times our
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), as
defined by the credit agreement. The second is maximum debt service expenses
amounting to two and one-half times our cash interest expense, as defined by the
credit agreement.

      The credit agreement also contains covenants specifying capital
expenditure limitations and other customary and normal provisions. As of
December 31, 2005, we had $76.3 million outstanding borrowings under this
five-year revolving credit agreement. We repaid $50 million in January 2006.

      We pay a commitment fee on the unborrowed portion of the commitment, which
ranges from 0.15% to 0.25% of the total commitment, depending on our
debt-to-EBITDA ratio, as defined above. The interest rate for each currency's
borrowing will be a combination of the base rate for that currency plus a credit
margin spread. The base rate is different for each currency. The credit margin
spread is the same for each currency and is 0.60% to 1.25%, depending on our
debt-to-EBITDA ratio, as defined in the credit agreement. Each of our domestic
subsidiaries with net worth equal to or greater than $10 million has guaranteed
all obligations incurred under the credit facility.

      Simultaneously with the execution of our current credit agreement, we
terminated our previous $125.0 million credit agreement, dated June 17, 2004.

      Our German subsidiary, AMI Doduco GmbH, has an obligation outstanding
under a term loan agreement of approximately 5.1 million euro and the obligation
is due in August 2009. We, including several of our subsidiaries, have
guaranteed the obligations arising under this term loan agreement.

      At December 30, 2005, we included $4.2 million of outstanding debt of FRE
in connection with our consolidation of FRE's financial statements. FRE has a
total credit limit of approximately $6.7 million in U.S. dollar equivalents as
of December 30, 2005. Neither Technitrol, nor any of its subsidiaries, has
guaranteed or otherwise participated in the credit facilities of FRE.

      Principal payments due within the next five years, including $50 million
which is reported as current because we repaid the amount in January 2006, based
on terms of our debt arrangements, are as follows (in thousands):

                           2006         $54,014
                           2007             366
                           2008              --
                           2009           6,054
                           2010          26,277
                           Thereafter        --
                                        -------
                                        $86,711
                                        =======


                                       48
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(5)   Research, Development and Engineering Expenses

      Research, development and engineering expenses are included in selling,
general and administrative expenses and were $25.5 million, $22.5 million and
$18.4 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. RD&E includes costs
associated with new product development, product and process improvement,
engineering follow-through during early stages of production, design of tools
and dies, and the adaptation of existing technology to specific situations and
customer requirements. The research and development component of RD&E, which
generally includes only those costs associated with new technology, new products
or significant changes to current products or processes, was $20.9 million,
$16.5 million and $13.2 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

(6)   Income Taxes

      (Loss) earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, minority
interest and cumulative effect of accounting change were as follows (in
thousands):

                                       2005          2004          2003
                                   --------      --------      --------
Domestic                           $ (5,722)     $ (7,319)     $ (6,920)
Non-U.S.                            (11,606)       18,610        22,447
                                   --------      --------      --------
      Total                        $(17,328)     $ 11,291      $ 15,527
                                   ========      ========      ========

      Income tax expense was as follows (in thousands):

Current:                               2005          2004          2003
                                   --------      --------      --------
      Federal                       $(2,188)      $ 1,691       $(3,191)
      State and local                   248          (196)         (821)
      Non-U.S.                          352         5,212         8,531
                                   --------      --------      --------
                                     (1,588)        6,082         5,144
Deferred tax expense (benefit)        7,749        (2,553)       (1,950)
                                   --------      --------      --------

Net tax expense                     $ 6,161       $ 3,529       $ 3,194
                                   ========      ========      ========

      A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate with the
effective income tax rate was as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                2005   2004    2003
                                                                ----   ----    ----
<S>                                                              <C>    <C>     <C>
Statutory federal income tax rate                                 35%    35%     35%
Increase (decrease) resulting from:
      Tax-exempt earnings of subsidiary in Puerto Rico            --     (4)     (4)
      State and local income taxes, net of federal tax effect     (1)    (2)     (2)
      Non-deductible expenses and other                           20      7      --
      Section 965 dividend                                       (41)    --      --
      Non-U.S. income subject to U.S. income tax                  (8)    16      17
      Foreign                                                    (40)   (21)    (13)
      Research and development and other tax credits              (1)    --     (12)
                                                                ----   ----    ----
Effective tax rate                                               (36%)   31%     21%
                                                                ====   ====    ====
</TABLE>

      Several of our foreign subsidiaries continue to operate under separate tax
holiday arrangements as granted by certain foreign jurisdictions. The nature and
extent of such arrangements vary, and the benefits of such arrangements may
phase out in future according to the specific terms and schedules as set forth
by the particular tax authorities having jurisdiction over the arrangements. In
2005, 2004 and 2003 taxes on foreign earnings were favorably impacted by tax
holidays in certain foreign jurisdictions of $0.9 million, $3.4 million and $3.1
million, respectively.


                                       49
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(6)   Income Taxes, continued

      Deferred tax assets and liabilities included the following (in thousands):

                                                               2005        2004
                                                           --------    --------
Assets:
      Inventories                                          $    644    $  1,096
      Plant and equipment                                     3,480       1,706
      Vacation pay and other compensation                       372         462
      Pension expense                                         2,664       2,657
      Stock awards                                              148          45
      Accrued liabilities                                     1,483       3,075
      Net operating losses - state and foreign               11,125      10,929
      Tax credits                                            18,750      19,285
      Other                                                   1,672       1,207
                                                           --------    --------
            Total deferred tax assets                        40,338      40,462
            Valuation allowance                             (12,625)     (7,608)
                                                           --------    --------
            Net deferred tax assets                        $ 27,713    $ 32,854
                                                           --------    --------

Liabilities:
      Foreign earnings not permanently invested            $ 19,203    $ 16,829
      Acquired intangibles                                    7,056       3,036
                                                           --------    --------
            Total deferred tax liabilities                   26,259      19,865
                                                           --------    --------
            Net deferred taxes                             $  1,454    $ 12,989
                                                           ========    ========

            Short-term deferred tax assets                 $  3,029    $  5,057
            Short-term deferred tax liabilities                (729)       (966)
            Long-term deferred tax assets                    13,079      17,873
            Long-term deferred tax liabilities              (13,925)     (8,975)
                                                           --------    --------
                 Net deferred tax assets                   $  1,454    $ 12,989
                                                           ========    ========

      The valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset increased $5.0 million
primarily due to additional net operating losses that were incurred in certain
jurisdictions in which the tax benefit of those losses will not be realized.
Based on our history of taxable income and our projection of future earnings, we
believe that it is more likely than not that sufficient taxable income will be
generated in the foreseeable future to realize the net deferred tax assets.
Unless utilized, net operating losses will expire in fiscal years 2006 through
2025. Foreign tax credit carryforwards will start to expire in 2010. Research
and development credit carryforwards will start to expire 2019.

      In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("AJCA") was
signed into law. The AJCA contains a series of provisions, several of which are
pertinent to us. The AJCA creates a temporary incentive for U.S. multi-national
corporations to repatriate accumulated income abroad by providing an 85%
dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign
corporations. Based on this legislation and 2005 guidance by the Department of
Treasury, we repatriated $52 million of foreign earnings. A charge of $7.3
million related to the repatriation is included in income taxes (from continuing
operations) in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. Prior to
the passage of the AJCA, the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries,
with the exception of approximately $40 million, were considered to be
indefinitely reinvested, and in accordance with APB Opinion No. 23 ("APB 23"),
Accounting for Income Taxes - Special Areas, no provision for U.S. federal or
state income taxes had been provided on these undistributed earnings. The
remaining offshore earnings, with the exception of approximately $40 million,
are intended to be indefinitely invested abroad and no provision for U.S.
federal or state income taxes has been provided in accordance with APB 23.

      We have not provided for U.S. federal and state income and foreign
withholding taxes on approximately $308 million of non-U.S. subsidiaries'
undistributed earnings (as calculated for income tax purposes) as of December
30, 2005. Such earnings include pre-acquisition earnings of foreign entities
acquired through stock purchases and are intended to be reinvested outside of
the U.S. indefinitely. Unrecognized deferred taxes on these undistributed
earnings were estimated to be approximately $102 million. Where excess cash has
accumulated in our non-U.S. subsidiaries and it is advantageous for tax reasons,
subsidiary earnings may be remitted.


                                       50
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(7)   Commitments and Contingencies

      We conduct a portion of our operations from leased premises and also lease
certain equipment under operating leases. Total rental expense amounts for the
years ended December 30, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 26, 2003 were $7.6
million, $7.6 million and $6.6 million, respectively.

      The aggregate minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable leases in
effect at December 30, 2005 were as follows (in thousands):

                  Year Ending
                  -----------
                      2006             $ 8,094
                      2007               6,493
                      2008               4,226
                      2009               3,288
                      2010               2,248
                   Thereafter            4,843
                                       -------
                                       $29,192
                                       =======

      The aggregate minimum rental commitments schedule does not include $87.8
million due under precious metal consignment-type leases. We expect to make
payments under such leases as the precious metal is purchased in 2006 upon sale
of the precious metal to customers.

      We had three standby letters of credit outstanding at December 30, 2005 in
the aggregate amount of $1.0 million securing transactions entered into in the
ordinary course of business. We had commercial commitments outstanding at
December 30, 2005 of approximately $87.8 million due under precious metal
consignment-type leases. We had no other off-balance-sheet financing
arrangements.

      We are aware of contamination at two locations. In Sinsheim, Germany,
there is a shallow groundwater and soil contamination that is naturally
decreasing over time. The German environmental authorities have not required
corrective action to date. In addition, property in Leesburg, Indiana, which was
acquired with our acquisition of GTI in 1998, is the subject of a 1994
Corrective Action Order to GTI by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management (IDEM). Although we sold the property in early 2005, we retained the
responsibility for existing environmental issues at the site. The order requires
us to investigate and take corrective actions. Substantially all of the
corrective actions relating to impacted soil have been taken and IDEM has issued
us "no further action" letters for most of the remediated areas. We expect a
final "no further action" letter on this area upon IDEM's final review of our
closure report. We anticipate making additional environmental expenditures in
the future to continue our environmental studies, analysis and remediation
activities with respect to this site. Based on current knowledge, we do not
believe that any future expenses or liabilities associated with environmental
remediation will have a material impact on our operations or our consolidated
financial position, liquidity or operating results; however, we may be subject
to additional costs and liabilities if the scope of the contamination or the
cost of remediation exceeds our current expectations.

      We accrue costs associated with environmental and legal matters when they
become probable and reasonably estimable. Accruals are established based on the
estimated undiscounted cash flows to settle the obligations and are not reduced
by any potential recoveries from insurance or other indemnification claims. We
believe that any ultimate liability with respect to these actions in excess of
amounts provided will not materially affect our operations or consolidated
financial position, liquidity or operating results.

      We are also subject to various lawsuits, claims and proceedings which
arise in the ordinary course of our business. These actions include routine tax
audits and assessments occurring throughout numerous jurisdictions on a
worldwide basis. We do not believe that the outcome of any of these actions will
have a material adverse effect on our financial results.

(8)   Shareholders' Equity

      All retained earnings are free from legal or contractual restrictions as
of December 30, 2005, with the exception of approximately $16.2 million of
retained earnings, primarily in the PRC that are restricted in accordance with
Section 58 of the PRC Foreign Investment Enterprises Law. Included in the $16.2
million is $1.8 million of retained earnings of FRE of which we own 57%. The
restriction applies to 10% of our net earnings in the PRC, limited to 50% of the
total capital invested in the PRC.


                                       51
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(8)   Shareholders' Equity, continued

      Effective August 1, 2001 we adopted a new qualified, non-compensatory
employee stock purchase plan that provides substantially all employees an
opportunity to purchase common stock. The purchase price is equal to 85% of the
fair value of the common stock on either the first day of the offering period or
the last day of the purchase period, whichever is lower. The offering periods
and purchase periods are defined by the plan, but are each currently six months
in duration. In connection with this plan, 1,000,000 shares of common stock are
reserved for issuance under the plan. In 2004 and 2003, employees purchased
approximately 45,000 and 70,000 shares, respectively, under the plan. During
2004, the operation of the ESPP was suspended following an evaluation of its
related expense and perceived value by employees.

      We have a Shareholder Rights Plan. The Rights are currently not
exercisable, and automatically trade with our common shares. However, after a
person or group has acquired 15% or more of our common shares, the Rights will
become exercisable, and separate certificates representing the Rights will be
distributed. In the event that any person or group acquires 15% of our common
shares, each holder of two Rights (other than the Rights of the acquiring
person) will have the right to receive, for $135, that number of common shares
having a market value equal to two times the exercise price of the Rights.
Alternatively, in the event that, at any time following the date in which a
person or group acquires ownership of 15% or more of our common shares, and we
are acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction, or 50% or
more of our consolidated assets or earning power is sold, each holder of two
Rights (other than the Rights of such acquiring person or group) will thereafter
have the right to receive, upon exercise, that number of shares of common stock
of the acquiring entity having a then market value equal to two times the
exercise price of the Rights. The Rights may be redeemed by us at a price of
$.005 per Right at any time prior to becoming exercisable. Rights that are not
redeemed or exercised will expire on September 9, 2006.

(9)   Earnings (Loss) Per Share

      Basic earnings (loss) per share were calculated by dividing earnings
(loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the
year (excluding restricted shares which are considered to be contingently
issuable). We had restricted shares outstanding of approximately 197,000,
220,000 and 199,000 as of December 30, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 26,
2003 respectively, which generally vest over a three-year term. For calculating
diluted earnings per share, common share equivalents and restricted stock
outstanding were added to the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding. Common share equivalents result from outstanding options to
purchase common stock and the amount of compensation cost attributable to future
services not yet recognized as calculated using the treasury stock method.
However, in years when we have a net loss, or the exercise price of stock
options, by grant, are greater than the actual stock price as of the end of the
year, those stock options will be excluded from the calculation of common share
equivalents. Therefore, as we had a net loss for the year ended December 30,
2005, we did not include any common share equivalents in the calculation of
earnings per share. For the year ended December 31, 2004, we included
approximately 19,000 common stock equivalents and excluded approximately 282,000
stock options from the calculation of earnings per share. For the year ended
December 26, 2003, we did not include any common stock equivalents and excluded
approximately 484,000 stock options from the calculation of earnings per share.

Earnings per share calculations were as follows (in thousands, except per share
amounts):

                                                      2005      2004       2003
                                                  --------   -------    -------
(Loss) earnings from continuing operations
 before cumulative effect of accounting change    $(24,428)  $ 7,107    $12,333
Cumulative effect of accounting change                (564)       --         --
Net (loss) from discontinued operations               (472)     (179)      (345)
                                                  --------   -------    -------
Net (loss) earnings                               $(25,464)  $ 6,928    $11,988
                                                  ========   =======    =======

 Basic (loss) earnings per share:
    Shares                                          40,297    40,178     40,032
    Continuing operations                         $  (0.61)  $  0.18    $  0.31
    Change in accounting principle                   (0.01)       --         --
    Discontinued operations                          (0.01)    (0.01)     (0.01)
                                                  --------   -------    -------
    Per share amount                              $  (0.63)  $  0.17    $  0.30
                                                  ========   =======    =======


                                       52
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(9)   Earnings (Loss) Per Share, continued

    Diluted (loss) earnings per share:
      Shares                                       40,297     40,411     40,171
      Continuing operations                       $ (0.61)   $  0.18    $  0.31
      Change in accounting principle                (0.01)        --         --
      Discontinued operations                       (0.01)     (0.01)     (0.01)
                                                  --------   -------    -------
      Per share amount                            $ (0.63)   $  0.17    $  0.30
                                                  ========   =======    =======

(10)  Employee Benefit Plans

      We maintain defined benefit pension plans for certain of our U.S.
employees. Certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries have varying types of retirement
plans providing benefits for substantially all of their employees. Benefits are
based on years of service and average final compensation. In 2005, we began to
aggregate the retirement plan of LK. For U.S. plans we fund at least the minimum
amount required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
Depending on the investment performance of plan assets and other factors, the
funding amount in any given year may be zero.

Pension expense was as follows (in thousands):

                                                      2005      2004       2003
                                                  --------   -------    -------
Principal defined benefit plans                   $     30   $ 1,426    $ 1,910
Other employee benefit plans                         1,191       410        638
                                                  --------   -------    -------
                                                  $  1,221   $ 1,836    $ 2,548
                                                  ========   =======    =======

      Pension  expense  for the year ended  December  30,  2005  includes a $1.1
million pension  curtailment  gain as a result of the reduced  estimated  future
service period of the severed personnel of the discontinued operations.

      The net expense for the principal  defined  benefit pension plans included
the following components (in thousands):

                                                      2005      2004       2003
                                                  --------   -------    -------
Service cost                                      $  1,585   $ 1,481    $ 1,471
Interest cost                                        2,161     2,073      1,976
Expected return on plan assets                      (2,354)   (2,239)    (1,880)
Amortization of transition obligation                   13        17         18
Amortization of prior service cost                     271       270        269
Recognized actuarial (gain) loss                    (1,646)     (176)        56
                                                  --------   -------    -------
      Net periodic pension cost                   $     30   $ 1,426    $ 1,910
                                                  ========   =======    =======

      The financial status of the principal defined benefit plans at December
30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, was as follows (in thousands):

                                                                2005       2004
                                                            --------   --------
Change in benefit obligation:

    Projected benefit obligation at beginning of year       $ 38,969   $ 34,514
         Service cost                                          1,585      1,481
         Interest cost                                         2,161      2,073
         Plan amendments                                      (1,654)      (101)
         Actuarial loss                                        1,031      1,338
         Plans not previously aggregated                         761        872
         Benefits paid                                        (1,252)    (1,208)
                                                            --------   --------
     Projected benefit obligation at end of year            $ 41,601   $ 38,969
                                                            ========   ========


                                       53
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(10)  Employee Benefit Plans, continued

Change in plan assets:
     Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year      $ 30,504    $ 28,418

         Actual return on plan assets                       2,049       2,899
         Employer contributions                               104         111
         Plans not previously aggregated                       19         284
         Benefits paid                                     (1,252)     (1,208)
                                                         --------    --------
     Fair value of plan assets at end of year            $ 31,424    $ 30,504
                                                         ========    ========

Funded status                                            $(10,177)   $ (8,465)
                                                         ========    ========

         Unrecognized actuarial gains                        (347)     (1,620)
         Unrecognized prior service cost                    2,618       2,889
         Unrecognized transition obligation                    95         136
         Intangible asset                                      (3)         (2)
                                                         --------    --------
Accrued pension costs at the end of the year             $ (7,814)   $ (7,062)
                                                         ========    ========

Accumulated benefit obligation                           $ 34,935    $ 32,294
                                                         ========    ========

      The aggregate benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair
value of plan assets for plans with benefit obligations in excess of plan
assets, as of the measurement date of each statement of financial position
presented, is as follows (in thousands):

                                                          2005            2004
                                                       -------         -------
Benefit obligation                                     $41,601         $ 9,128
Accumulated benefit obligation                         $34,935         $ 7,082
Plan assets                                            $31,424         $   343

      The principal defined benefit plan weighted-average asset allocations at
December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004 were as follows:

Asset Category                                            2005             2004
- --------------                                            ----             ----
   Equity securities                                        70%              66%
   Debt securities                                          29%              33%
   Other                                                     1%               1%
                                                           ---              ---
   Total                                                   100%             100%
                                                           ===              ===

      Our asset allocation policy for our primary benefit plans is for a target
investment of 65% to 75% equity securities and 25% to 35% fixed income
securities. The goal of our asset investment policy is to achieve a return in
excess of the rate of inflation with acceptable levels of volatility. We utilize
professionally managed mutual funds to invest our assets. Our pension assets are
invested in a variety of small and large capitalization domestic and
international mutual stock funds and a bond fund.

      To develop the expected long-term rate-of-return on assets assumption, we
considered historical returns and the future expectations for returns for each
asset class, weighted by the target asset allocations. This resulted in the
selection of the 8.0% long-term rate of return on assets assumption.

      Assumptions used to develop data were as follows:

                                                              2005     2004
                                                              ----     ----
          Discount rate                                       5.50%    5.75%
          Annual compensation increases                       4.25%    4.25%
          Expected long-term rates of return on plan assets   8.00%    8.00%

      Our measurement date is the last day of the year.


                                       54
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(10)  Employee Benefit Plans, continued

      We expect to contribute approximately $0.2 million to the principal
defined benefit plans in 2006. Additionally, we expect to make benefit payments
in 2006 of approximately $1.6 million from our principal defined benefit plans.
The following table shows expected benefit payments for the next five fiscal
years and the aggregate five years thereafter from the principal defined benefit
plans (in millions):

         Year
        Ending
        ------
         2006            1.6
         2007            1.7
         2008            1.9
         2009            2.1
         2010            2.3
      Thereafter        15.5

      We maintain defined contribution 401(k) plans covering substantially all
U.S. employees not affected by certain collective bargaining agreements. Under
our 401(k) plans, we contributed a matching amount equal to $1.00 for each $1.00
of the participant's contribution, not in excess of a maximum of 4% to 6% of the
participant's annual wages, depending on the plan. The total contribution
expense under the 401(k) plans for employees of continuing operations was
$979,000, $1,414,000, and $1,438,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively.

      We do not provide any post-retirement benefits outside of the U.S. except
as may be required by certain jurisdictions.

(11)  Stock-Based Compensation

      We have an incentive compensation plan for our employees. One component of
this plan is restricted stock, which grants the recipient the right of ownership
of our common stock, conditional on the achievement of performance objectives
and/or continued employment.

      Stock options are also granted under this plan. A summary of the shares
under the incentive compensation plan is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   2005          2004          2003
                                                             ----------    ----------    ----------
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>           <C>
Shares available to be granted                                2,165,738     2,320,290     2,505,426
New authorized shares                                                --            --            --
Restricted stock and options awarded, net of cancellations      (10,492)     (154,552)     (185,136)
                                                             ----------    ----------    ----------
Balance available at the end of the year                      2,155,246     2,165,738     2,320,290
                                                             ==========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

      During the years ended December 30, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December
26, 2003, we issued to employees, net of cancellations, restricted stock having
an approximate fair value at date of issue of $976,000, $2,303,000 and
$1,091,000, respectively. The fair value of the restricted stock is based on
fair market price of the stock at the award date and is recorded as deferred
compensation. Compensation is recognized over the vesting period which is
generally three years. Shares are held by us until the continued employment
requirement and/or performance criteria have been attained. For shares subject
to continued employment requirements, the market value of the shares at the date
of grant is charged to expense during the vesting period on a straight-line
basis. For shares subject to performance criteria, the expense varies with the
market value of the shares until the performance criteria are met or are deemed
to be unachievable. Cash awards, which accompany shares released under the
incentive compensation plan and are intended to assist recipients with their
resulting personal tax liability, are based on the market value of the shares
and are accrued over the vesting period. The expense related to the cash award
is fixed based on the value of the awarded stock on the grant date if the
recipient makes an election under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code. If
the recipient does not make the election under Section 83(b), the expense
related to the cash award is variable based on the current market value of the
shares. Amounts charged to expense as a result of the restricted stock plan and
related expenses were approximately $2,555,000 in 2005, $2,461,000 in 2004 and
$1,601,000 in 2003.


                                       55
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(11)  Stock-Based Compensation, continued

      We also have a stock award plan for non-employee directors. The Board of
Directors Stock Plan was approved in 1998 to assist us in attracting and
retaining highly qualified persons to serve on our board of directors. Under the
terms of the plan, 105,000 shares of our common stock are available for grant.
On an annual basis, shares amounting to a dollar value predetermined by the plan
are issued to non-employee directors and are recorded as an expense at issuance.
In 2005, 2004 and 2003, we issued 11,754, 7,570 and 10,206 shares, respectively,
(including those deferred at the directors' election) under the plan. A total of
47,880 shares remain available for issuance under the plan.

      In February 2001, our Board of Directors Compensation Committee adopted a
stock option plan. All U.S. employees and designated employees of subsidiaries
are eligible to participate in the stock option plan. Except as limited by the
terms of the option plan, the committee has discretion to select the persons to
receive options and to determine the terms and conditions of the option,
including the number of shares underlying the option, the exercise price, the
vesting schedule and term. The options are granted at no cost to the employee
and cannot be granted with an exercise price less than the fair market value at
the date of grant. There were no options granted in 2005. The options granted in
2004 and 2003 vest equally over four years and expire in seven years from the
date of grant. During 2004 and 2003 a total of approximately 100,700 and 159,100
options, respectively, were awarded to employees at a weighted average strike
price of $16.55 and $18.41 per share, respectively. As of December 31, 2005, 25%
of the shares granted in 2004 and 50% of the shares granted in 2003 were vested.

      We adopted SFAS 123, as amended by SFAS 148, at the  beginning of the 2003
fiscal year. We implemented  SFAS 123 under the prospective  method approach per
SFAS 148, whereby compensation expense was recorded for all awards subsequent to
adoption.  As permitted  by the  provisions  of SFAS 123, we applied  Accounting
Principles  Board Opinion 25,  "Accounting  for Stock Issued to  Employees"  and
related  interpretations  in accounting  for our stock option and purchase plans
prior to adoption of SFAS 123 in fiscal 2003. Accordingly,  no compensation cost
was recognized for our stock option and employee  purchase plans prior to fiscal
2003 as all stock options  granted under the plan had an exercise price equal to
the fair value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. The value of
restricted  stock has always been and  continues to be recorded as  compensation
expense over the restricted  period, and such expense is included in the results
of operations for all years presented.

      If compensation cost for issuances under our stock option plan and stock
purchase plan had been determined based on the fair value as required by SFAS
123 for all awards, our pro forma net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per
basic and diluted share would have been as follows (in thousands, except per
share amounts):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        2005          2004          2003
                                                                  ----------    ----------    ----------
<S>                                                               <C>           <C>           <C>
Net (loss) earnings, as reported                                  $  (25,464)   $    6,928    $   11,988
Add: Stock-based compensation expense included in reported net
    income (loss), net of taxes                                        1,924         1,944         1,269
Deduct: Total stock-based compensation expense determined under
    fair value based method for all awards, net of taxes              (2,494)       (2,764)       (2,124)
                                                                  ----------    ----------    ----------
Net (loss) earnings adjusted                                      $  (26,034)   $    6,108    $   11,133

Basic net income (loss) - as reported                             $    (0.63)   $     0.17    $     0.30
Basic net income (loss) - adjusted                                $    (0.65)   $     0.15    $     0.28
Diluted net income (loss) - as reported                           $    (0.63)   $     0.17    $     0.30
Diluted net income (loss) - adjusted                              $    (0.65)   $     0.15    $     0.28
</TABLE>

      We did not issue any stock options in 2005. The per share weighted average
fair value of stock options granted during 2004 and 2003 is calculated as $9.81
and $10.18, respectively, on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model. The weighted average assumptions based on the date of
grant are as follows:

                                                      2004         2003
                                                      ----         ----
            Dividend yield                             0.0%         0.0%
            Volatility                                65.0%        64.0%
            Risk-free interest rate                    4.1%         3.0%
            Expected life (years)                      4.0          4.0


                                       56
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(11)  Stock-Based Compensation, continued

      At December 30, 2005, we had approximately 475,000 options outstanding,
representing approximately 1% of our outstanding shares of common stock, of
which approximately 319,000 are exercisable as of December 30, 2005. There were
0, 84,900 and 126,650 granted, net of cancellations, for the years ended
December 30, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 26, 2003, respectively. The
exercise prices of the options outstanding as of December 30, 2005 range from
$16.55 per share to $30.48 per share. The weighted average remaining life of all
475,000 is approximately 4 years.

(12)  Severance and Asset Impairment Expense

      We implemented numerous restructuring initiatives during 2005, 2004 and
2003 in order to reduce our cost structure and capacity in response to a global
recession in the electronics industry in 2002 and 2001 and an increasingly
competitive environment in both the electronics and electrical markets which
followed.

      In the year ended December 30, 2005, we accrued $7.0 million for a number
of actions to streamline operations at Pulse and AMI Doduco. These include $2.3
million related to AMI Doduco's termination of manufacturing and support
personnel at a facility in Italy, $1.0 related to the consolidation of factories
at FRE, $0.9 million related to Pulse's termination of manufacturing and support
personnel at facilities in Italy and Turkey, $0.5 million related to the
transfer of Pulse consumer division assets from Pulse's facility in Turkey to
China, $0.4 million related to accrual the remaining future lease payments of
the unoccupied portion of AMI Doduco's facility in France, $0.3 million related
to Pulse's termination of a lease in China, $0.2 million related to AMI Doduco's
shutdown of a facility in the United Kingdom, and $1.4 million for severance and
facility closure costs at other locations. The majority of these accruals will
be paid by March 31, 2006, except for remaining lease or severance payments to
be made over a specified term. Additionally, in the three months ended July 1,
2005, we recorded a $46.0 million impairment charge of Pulse consumer division
assets consisting of $25.6 million of goodwill, $11.5 million of identifiable
intangibles, and $8.9 million of property, plant, and equipment. These
impairments resulted from updated cash flow projections which reflect the shift
of production by Pulse to China-based locations, decreasing average selling
prices for television transformers resulting from competition with Asian
companies selling in U.S. dollars, and the recent weakness in the European
television market for flyback transformers.

      In the year ended December 31, 2004, we accrued $9.0 million for severance
and related payments comprised of $3.1 million related to AMI Doduco's
termination of manufacturing and personnel at a facility in Germany, $2.7
million related to the termination of manufacturing and support personnel at an
AMI Doduco facility in France, $1.5 million to writedown the value of certain
Pulse fixed assets to their disposal values, $0.8 million related to Pulse's
shutdown of a facility in Carlsbad, California and $0.9 million for other
severances in various locations. The vast majority of these accruals were
utilized by the end of the second quarter in 2005. Additionally, in the quarter
ended December 30, 2004, we recorded an intangible asset impairment of $18.5
million related to Eldor and Excelsus acquired intangibles and $0.4 million of
other acquired intangibles. These intangible asset impairments resulted from
updated cash flow projections relating to technology and customer relationships,
and reflect, among other things, shifting product mixes, changes among major
customers and continuing pressures on selling prices in the consumer and
telecommunication product divisions of the Pulse segment.

      In the year ended December 26, 2003, we accrued $9.1 million for
severance, severance related payments and asset impairments. At Pulse, we
accrued $1.5 million for the elimination of certain manufacturing and support
positions located in France, the United Kingdom, Mexico and China and $0.8
million for other facility exit costs. We additionally accrued $1.9 million for
shutdown of Pulse's manufacturing facility in Mexico and $0.5 million to
write-down the carrying cost of Pulse's facility in the Philippines which is
held for sale. At AMI Doduco, we accrued $2.9 million for the elimination of
certain manufacturing positions principally located in North America and Germany
and $1.5 million to complete the shutdown of a redundant facility in Spain that
we acquired from Engelhard-CLAL in 2001. The majority of these accruals were
utilized by the end of 2004.

      As a result of our continuing focus on both economic and operating profit,
we will continue to aggressively size both Pulse and AMI Doduco so that costs
are optimally matched to current and anticipated future revenue and unit demand,
and as we pursue additional growth opportunities. The amounts of additional
charges will depend on specific actions taken. The actions taken over the past
three years such as plant closures, plant relocations, asset impairments and


                                       57
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(12)  Severance and Asset Impairment Expense, continued

reduction in personnel worldwide have resulted in the elimination of a variety
of costs. The majority of these costs represent the annual salaries and benefits
of terminated employees, both those directly related to manufacturing and
those providing selling, general and administrative services. The eliminated
costs also include depreciation savings from disposed equipment.

      Our restructuring charges are summarized for 2005 as follows (in
thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            AMI Doduco         Pulse         Total
                                                           -----------        ------        ------
<S>                                                              <C>          <C>           <C>
      Balance accrued at December 31, 2004                       $ 1.8        $  1.2        $  3.0
      Accrued during the twelve months ended December 30,
        2005                                                       3.4          49.6          53.0
      Severance and other cash payments                           (2.8)         (3.0)         (5.8)
      Non-cash asset disposals                                    (0.8)        (46.2)        (47.0)
                                                                 -----        ------        ------
      Balance accrued at December 30, 2005                       $ 1.6        $  1.6        $  3.2
                                                                 =====        ======        ======
</TABLE>

(13)  Supplementary Information

      The following amounts were charged directly to costs and expenses (in
thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             2005           2004           2003
                                                          -------        -------        -------
<S>                                                       <C>            <C>            <C>
           Depreciation                                   $20,105        $19,468        $19,320
           Amortization of intangible assets                2,053          4,477          4,035
           Advertising                                        265            376            202
           Repairs and maintenance                         15,554         13,376          7,959
           Bad debt expense                                   334            544            427

      Cash payments made:
           Income taxes                                   $ 5,435        $ 4,063        $ 3,816
           Interest                                         2,041          1,975          1,868
</TABLE>

      Accumulated other comprehensive income as disclosed in the Consolidated
Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity consists principally of foreign
currency translation items.

(14)  Segment and Geographical Information

      We operate our business in two segments: the Electronic Components
Segment, which operates under the name Pulse, and the Electrical Contact
Products Segment, which operates under the name AMI Doduco. We refer to these
segments as ECS or Pulse, and ECPS or AMI Doduco, respectively. Each segment is
managed by a President, or Regional Managing Director, who reports to our Chief
Executive Officer.

      Pulse designs and manufactures a wide variety of highly-customized
electronic components. Passive magnetics-based components manage and regulate
electronic signals and power for use in a variety of devices by filtering out
radio frequency interference and adjusting and ensuring proper current and
voltage. The passive magnetics-based products are often referred to as chokes,
inductors, filters and transformers. Wireless antennas and antenna modules
capture communications signals in handsets and a variety of other mobile and
portable devices. Pulse sells its products to multinational original equipment
manufacturers, contract manufacturers and distributors. Through a majority-owned
subsidiary, Pulse also supplies a variety of electronic connectors, modules,
wireless antennas and other accessories.

      AMI Doduco is a global manufacturer of a full range of electrical contact
products, from contact materials to completed contact subassemblies. Contact
products complete or interrupt electrical circuits in virtually every electrical
device. AMI Doduco provides its customers with a broad array of highly
engineered products and tools designed to meet unique customer needs.


                                       58
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(14)  Segment and Geographical Information, continued

Amounts are in thousands and exclude discontinued operations:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              2005         2004         2003
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>          <C>
Net sales
     Pulse                                               $ 361,552    $ 320,154    $ 294,092
     AMI Doduco                                            254,826      241,144      200,764
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
         Total                                           $ 616,378    $ 561,298    $ 494,856
                                                         =========    =========    =========
Operating (loss) profit before income taxes
     Pulse                                               $ (20,218)   $   9,485    $  27,197
     AMI Doduco                                              3,228         (622)      (1,778)
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
         Total operating profit                            (16,990)       8,863       25,419
     Items not included in segment profit (1)                 (338)       2,428       (9,892)
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
     (Loss) earnings from continuing operations before
       income taxes, minority interest and cumulative
       effect of accounting change                       $ (17,328)   $  11,291    $  15,527
                                                         =========    =========    =========
Assets at end of year
     Pulse                                               $ 388,394    $ 326,131    $ 302,261
     AMI Doduco                                            101,854      126,733      109,390
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
         Segment assets                                    490,248      452,864      411,651
     Assets not included in Segment assets (2)             196,054      183,664      177,243
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
         Total                                           $ 686,302    $ 636,528    $ 588,894
                                                         =========    =========    =========
Capital expenditures (3)
     Pulse                                                  29,686    $  27,962    $  29,078
     AMI Doduco                                              4,365        4,172        4,538
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
         Total                                           $  34,051    $  32,134    $  33,616
                                                         =========    =========    =========
Depreciation and amortization
     Pulse                                               $  16,440    $  17,281    $  16,048
     AMI Doduco                                              5,718        6,664        7,307
                                                         ---------    ---------    ---------
         Total                                           $  22,158    $  23,945    $  23,355
                                                         =========    =========    =========
</TABLE>

(1)   Includes interest income, interest expense and other non-operating items
      disclosed in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We exclude these
      items when measuring segment operating profit.

(2)   Cash and cash equivalents are the primary corporate assets. We exclude
      cash and cash equivalents, net deferred tax assets, and intercompany
      receivables when measuring segment assets.

(3)   During the past three years, we have acquired several companies and
      majority interests. We have included acquired property, plant and
      equipment in these capital expenditure amounts.

      We have no significant intercompany revenue between our segments. We do
not use income taxes when measuring segment results; however, we allocate income
taxes to our segments to determine certain performance measures. These
performance measures include economic profit. The following pro forma disclosure
of segment income tax expense is based on simplified assumptions and includes
allocations of corporate tax items. These allocations are based on the
proportionate share of total tax expense for each segment, obtained by
multiplying our respective segment's operating profit by the relevant estimated
effective tax rates for the year. The allocated tax (benefit) expense amounts,
including the tax effect of discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of
accounting change, for Pulse were, in thousands, $(6,107), $3,014, and $4,437 in
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. For AMI Doduco, they were, in thousands,
$517, $418 and $(1,429) in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.


                                       59
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(14)  Segment and Geographical Information, continued

      We sell our products to customers throughout the world. The following
table summarizes our sales to customers in the United States and Germany, where
sales are significant. Other countries in which our sales are not significant
are grouped into regions. We attribute customer sales to the country addressed
in the sales invoice. The product is usually shipped to the same country.
Amounts are in thousands:

                                                    2005       2004       2003
                                                --------   --------   --------
Sales to customers in:
Europe, other than Germany                      $209,174   $170,541   $178,396
Asia                                             181,723    166,032    108,024
United States                                    100,207    115,244    116,468
Germany                                           87,328     84,284     72,374
Other                                             37,946     25,197     19,594
                                                --------   --------   --------
         Total                                  $616,378   $561,298   $494,856
                                                ========   ========   ========

      The following table includes net property, plant and equipment located in
China, Turkey, Germany and the United States where assets are significant. Other
countries in which such assets are not significant are grouped into regions.
Property, plant and equipment represent all of the relevant assets that have
long useful lives. Amounts are in thousands:

                                                    2005       2004       2003
                                                --------   --------   --------
Net property, plant and equipment located in:
China                                           $ 32,652   $ 26,802   $ 12,545
Europe, other than Turkey and Germany             17,487      8,258     11,338
Germany                                           15,726     18,894     18,026
Turkey                                            14,434     31,491     31,091
United States                                      6,155     10,230     12,831
Asia, other than Turkey and China                  4,710      5,598      1,114
Other                                              1,734        903      1,104
                                                --------   --------   --------
         Total                                  $ 92,898   $102,176   $ 88,049
                                                ========   ========   ========

(15)  Equity Method Investment

      In April 2001, we made a minority investment in the common stock of FRE,
which was accounted for by the cost-basis method of accounting. On July 27,
2002, we made an additional investment in FRE of $6.7 million which increased
our total investment to $20.9 million. As a result of the increased ownership
percentage to approximately 29%, we began to account for the investment under
the equity method beginning in the three months ended September 27, 2002. In
2003, we recorded an $8.7 million net charge for our equity method investment in
FRE. The net loss in 2003 resulted from a $9.3 million charge to adjust the
original cost basis of our investment to market value, offset by $0.6 million of
equity method investment earnings in 2003. Shares of FRE began trading on the
Taiwan Stock Exchange in January of 2003, and they have experienced considerable
price volatility. In July 2004, we purchased an additional 9.0 million shares of
common stock in FRE for $10.5 million. On September 13, 2004, we acquired an
additional 2.4 million shares of common stock in FRE for $2.5 million, bringing
our total investment percentage up to 51%. Accordingly, FRE's operating results
are consolidated with our own beginning September 13, 2004. In 2004, we recorded
$0.8 million of equity earnings which reflects our proportionate share of
earnings for the period prior to September 13, 2004.

(16)  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

      In July 2001, the FASB issued Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets ("SFAS 142"). SFAS 142 requires that goodwill and intangible
assets with indefinite useful lives no longer be amortized, but instead be
tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of
SFAS 142. SFAS 142 also requires that other intangible assets with definite
useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives to their
estimated


                                       60
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(16)  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, continued

residual values, and reviewed for impairment in accordance with Statement No.
144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.

      In the year ended December 30, 2005, we recorded a $37.1 million
impairment charge relating to Pulse Consumer Division assets consisting of $25.6
million of goodwill and $11.5 million of identifiable intangible assets. These
impairments resulted from updated cash flow projections which reflect the shift
of production by Pulse to China-based locations, decreasing average selling
prices for television transactions, and the overall decline in the European
television market for flyback transformers.

      The changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill for the years ended
December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004 were as follows (in thousands):

             Balance at December 26, 2003                      $ 112,908

             Goodwill acquired during the year                    11,379
             Purchase price allocation and other adjustments        (450)
             Currency translation adjustment                       2,341
                                                               ---------

             Balance at December 31, 2004                      $ 126,178
                                                               =========

             Goodwill acquired during the year                    45,659
             Purchase price allocation and other adjustment        1,622
             Impairment adjustment                               (25,614)
             Currency translation adjustment                      (4,964)
                                                               ---------

             Balance at December 30, 2005                      $ 142,881
                                                               =========

      The majority of our goodwill and other intangibles relate to our Pulse
segment.

      Other intangible assets were as follows (in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                December 30,    December 31,
                                                                        2005            2004
                                                                ------------    ------------
<S>                                                                 <C>             <C>
Intangible assets subject to amortization (definite lives):
    Technology                                                      $  8,600        $  7,233
    Customer relationships                                            17,092           4,904
    Manufacturing know-how                                                --          14,571
    Tradename / trademark                                                 --           1,811
    Other                                                              1,590           1,355
                                                                    --------        --------
       Total                                                        $ 27,282        $ 29,874

Accumulated amortization:
    Technology                                                      $ (5,939)       $ (5,497)
    Customer relationships                                            (1,012)         (1,881)
    Manufacturing know-how                                                --          (2,293)
    Tradename / trademark                                                 --          (1,776)
    Other                                                               (327)           (333)
                                                                    --------        --------
       Total                                                        $ (7,278)       $(11,780)
                                                                    --------        --------

       Net tangible assets subject to amortization                  $ 20,004        $ 18,094

Intangible assets not subject to amortization (indefinite lives):
     Tradename                                                      $ 11,644        $  4,591
                                                                    --------        --------

     Other intangibles, net                                         $ 31,648        $ 22,685
                                                                    ========        ========
</TABLE>


                                       61
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(16)  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, continued

      Amortization expense was $2,053,000, $4,477,000 and $4,035,000 for the
years ended December 30, 2005, December 31, 2004 and December 26, 2003,
respectively. Estimated annual amortization expense for each of the next five
years is as follows (in thousands):

            Year Ending
            -----------
               2006                 2,853
               2007                 2,853
               2008                 2,782
               2009                 2,204
               2010                 1,858

(17)  Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

      Quarterly results of operations (unaudited) for 2005 and 2004 are
summarized as follows (in thousands, except per share data):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                       Quarter Ended
                                                                                       -------------
2005:                                                                   April 1      July 1     Sept. 30      Dec. 30
                                                                      ---------   ---------    ---------    ---------
<S>                                                                   <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
    Net sales                                                         $ 141,391   $ 143,305    $ 147,217    $ 184,465
    Gross profit                                                         33,969      32,539       34,006       42,329
    Earnings (loss) from continuing operations before taxes,
       minority interest, and cumulative effect of accounting change      7,245     (42,164)       7,168       10,423
    Net earnings (loss)                                                   5,109     (42,914)       4,589        7,752
    Basic                                                                  0.13       (1.06)        0.11         0.19
    Diluted                                                                0.13       (1.06)        0.11         0.19

<CAPTION>

2004:                                                                   Mar. 26     June 25       Oct. 1      Dec. 31
                                                                      ---------   ---------    ---------    ---------
<S>                                                                   <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
    Net sales                                                         $ 135,290   $ 141,301    $ 140,606    $ 144,101
    Gross profit                                                         37,711      39,241       34,657       33,723
    Earnings (loss) from continuing operations before taxes,
       minority interest, and cumulative effect of accounting change      6,716      11,014        5,898      (12,337)
    Net earnings (loss)                                                   5,765       9,274        4,438      (12,549)
    Basic                                                             $    0.14   $    0.23    $    0.11    $   (0.31)

    Diluted                                                           $    0.14   $    0.23    $    0.11    $   (0.31)
</TABLE>

(18)  Discontinued Operations

      In the second quarter of 2005, we received approximately $6.7 million for
the sale of AMI Doduco's bimetal and metal cladding operations. We realized a
gain of approximately $1.4 million from the sale of approximately $5.1 million
of inventory and $0.2 million of machinery and equipment. During 2005, we
accrued $1.3 million for severance and related payments resulting from the
announcement to terminate manufacturing and support personnel and incurred other
expenses related to the shutdown of operations. The majority of this accrual was
paid by December 30, 2005. Additionally, we realized a $1.1 million pension
curtailment gain as a result of the reduced estimated future service period of
the severed personnel. We have reflected the results of the bimetal and metal
cladding operations as discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statements of
Operations for all periods presented.

      Summary results of operations for the bimetal and metal cladding
operations were as follows (in thousands):

                                 2005        2004        2003
                             --------    --------    --------

Net sales                    $  9,020    $ 21,016    $ 14,391
(Loss) before income taxes       (726)       (276)       (530)


                                       62
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued

(18)  Discontinued Operations, continued

      The net book value of the land and building was approximately $1.4 million
at December 30, 2005. These assets are included in other current assets on the
consolidated balance sheets as the assets are held for sale.

(19)  Asset Retirement Obligations

      We adopted Financial Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional
Asset Retirement Obligations ("FIN 47") as of December 20, 2005. FIN 47
clarifies the term, "conditional asset retirement obligation", as used in SFAS
No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which refers to a legal
obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and/or
method of settlement are conditional on a future event. SFAS No. 143 requires
that the fair value of a legal liability for an asset retirement obligation be
recorded in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair
value can be made. Upon recognition of a liability, the asset retirement cost is
recorded as an increase in the carrying value of the related long-lived asset
and then depreciated over the life of the asset. Our asset retirement
obligations arise primarily from legal requirements to decontaminate buildings,
machinery and equipment at the time we dispose of or replace them. We also have
leased facilities where we have asset retirement obligations from contractual
commitments to remove leasehold improvements and return the property to a
specified condition when the lease terminates. As a result of our evaluation of
our asset retirement obligations, we recorded a $1.0 million non-current
liability for asset retirement obligations and a $0.3 million increase in the
carrying value of the related assets, net of $0.3 million of accumulated
depreciation as of December 30, 2005. The cumulative effect recorded in the
fourth quarter of 2005 upon the adoption of this interpretation was $0.6
million, net of taxes of $0.3 million.

      The following table presents our liability for asset retirement
obligations as if this interpretation had been adopted on January 1, 2003 (in
thousands):

           Balance, January 1, 2003                  $    643
           Balance, December 26, 2003                $    860
           Balance, December 31, 2004                $  1,003
           Balance, December 30, 2005                $    960

      The following table presents our net (loss) income and basic and diluted
earnings per share as if the provisions of FIN 47 had been adopted on January 1,
2003 (in thousands, except per share amounts):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                2005          2004          2003
                                                            --------    ----------    ----------
<S>                                                         <C>         <C>           <C>
Net (loss) earnings - as reported                           $(25,464)   $    6,928    $   11,988
Adjustments:
    Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income
      taxes - as reported                                        564            --            --
    Pro forma earnings effects, net of income taxes              (82)          (80)          (69)
                                                            --------    ----------    ----------
    Net adjustments                                              482           (80)          (69)

Net earnings (loss) - adjusted                              $(24,982)   $    6,848    $   11,919
                                                            ========    ==========    ==========

Basic net income (loss) per share - as reported             $  (0.63)   $     0.17    $     0.30
Basic net income (loss) per share - adjusted                $  (0.62)   $     0.17    $     0.30
Diluted net income (loss) per share - as reported           $  (0.63)   $     0.17    $     0.30
Diluted net income (loss) per share - adjusted              $  (0.62)   $     0.17    $     0.30
</TABLE>

(20)  Subsequent Event

      We filed a Form 8-K on January 10, 2006 regarding our completed
acquisition of ERA Group for $58 million in cash, plus related costs and
expenses. ERA is based in Herrenberg, Germany with production operations in
Germany, Tunisia and China. ERA will form the cornerstone of a newly formed
automotive products division at Pulse.


                                       63
<PAGE>

                        Technitrol, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                         Financial Statement Schedule II

                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                                  In thousands

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      Additions (Deductions)
                                                      ---------------------
                                                     Charged to   Write-offs
                                           Opening    costs and          and      Ending
Description                                Balance     expenses     payments     Balance
- -----------                               --------   ----------   ----------    --------
<S>                                       <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>
Year ended December 30, 2005:
Provisions for obsolete and slow-moving
    inventory                             $ 11,097     $  5,334     $ (4,932)   $ 11,499
                                          ========     ========     ========    ========
Allowances for doubtful accounts          $  1,715     $    334     $   (386)   $  1,663
                                          ========     ========     ========    ========

Year ended December 31, 2004:
Provisions for obsolete and slow-moving
    inventory                             $ 10,410     $  6,106     $ (5,419)   $ 11,097
                                          ========     ========     ========    ========
Allowances for doubtful accounts          $  2,881     $    544     $ (1,710)   $  1,715
                                          ========     ========     ========    ========

Year ended December 26, 2003:
Provisions for obsolete and slow-moving
    inventory                             $ 15,564     $  5,936     $(11,090)   $ 10,410
                                          ========     ========     ========    ========
Allowances for doubtful accounts          $  3,255     $    427     $   (801)   $  2,881
                                          ========     ========     ========    ========
</TABLE>

      Provision for obsolete and slow-moving inventory as of December 30, 2005
includes approximately $0.3 million as a reduction of the amount charged to
costs and expenses to reflect the removal of inventory provisions of the
discontinued operations.


                                       64
<PAGE>

                                  Exhibit Index

2.1       Share Purchase Agreement, dated as of January 9, 2003, by Pulse
          Electronics (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. and Forfin Holdings B.V. that are
          signatories thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to our
          Form 8-K dated January 10, 2003).

3.1       Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 3.1 to our Form 10-K for the year ended December
          26, 2003)

3.3       By-laws (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to our Form 10-K for
          the year ended December 27, 2002).

4.1       Rights Agreement, dated as of August 30, 1996, between Technitrol,
          Inc. and Registrar and Transfer Company, as Rights Agent (incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 3 to our Registration Statement on Form 8-A
          dated October 24, 1996).

4.2       Amendment No. 1 to the Rights Agreement, dated March 25, 1998, between
          Technitrol, Inc. and Registrar and Transfer Company, as Rights Agent
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to our Registration Statement
          on Form 8-A/A dated April 10, 1998).

4.3       Amendment No. 2 to the Rights Agreement, dated June 15, 2000, between
          Technitrol, Inc. and Registrar and Transfer Company, as Rights Agent
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 5 to our Registration Statement
          on Form 8-A/A dated July 5, 2000).

10.1      Technitrol, Inc. 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 4.1 to our Registration Statement on Form S-8
          dated June 28, 2001, File Number 333-64060).

10.1(1)   Form of Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
          10.1 (1) to our Form 10-Q for the three months ended October 1, 2004).

10.2      Technitrol, Inc. Restricted Stock Plan II, as amended and restated as
          of January 1, 2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit C, to our
          Definitive Proxy on Schedule 14A dated March 28, 2001).

10.3      Technitrol, Inc. 2001 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 4.1 to our Registration Statement on Form S-8 dated June 28,
          2001, File Number 333-64068).

10.4      Technitrol, Inc. Board of Directors Stock Plan, as amended
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to our Form 8-K dated May 18,
          2005).

10.5      Credit Agreement, by and among Technitrol, Inc. and certain of its
          subsidiaries, Bank of America N.A. as Administrative Agent and Lender,
          and certain other Lenders that are signatories thereto, dated as of
          October 14, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our
          Form 8-K dated October 20, 2005).

10.6      Lease Agreement, dated October 15, 1991, between Ridilla-Delmont and
          AMI Doduco, Inc. (formerly known as Advanced Metallurgy Incorporated),
          as amended September 21, 2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
          10.6 to the Company's Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on
          Form S-3 dated February 28, 2002, File Number 333-81286).

10.7      Incentive Compensation Plan of Technitrol, Inc. (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Amendment No. 1 to our Registration
          Statement on Form S-3 filed on February 28, 2002, File Number
          333-81286).

10.8      Technitrol, Inc. Supplemental Retirement Plan, amended and restated
          January 1, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to
          Amendment No. 1 to our Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on
          February 28, 2002, File Number 333-81286).


                                       65
<PAGE>

                            Exhibit Index, continued

10.9      Agreement between Technitrol, Inc. and James M. Papada, III, dated
          July 1, 1999, as amended April 23, 2001, relating to the Technitrol,
          Inc. Supplemental Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.9 to Amendment No. 1 to our Registration Statement on Form
          S-3 filed on February 28, 2002, File Number 333-81286).

10.10     Letter Agreement between Technitrol, Inc. and James M. Papada, III,
          dated April 16, 1999, as amended October 18, 2000 (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Amendment No. 1 to our Registration
          Statement on Form S-3 filed on February 28, 2002, File Number
          333-81286).

10.10(1)  Letter Agreement between Technitrol, Inc. and James M. Papada, III
          dated December 16, 2005.

10.11     Form of Indemnity Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
          10.11 to our Form 10-K for the year ended December 27, 2002).

10.12     Technitrol Inc. Supplemental Savings Plan (incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10.15 to our Form 10-Q for the three months ended September
          26, 2003).

10.13     Technitrol, Inc. 401(K) Retirement Savings Plan, as amended
          (incorporated by reference to post-effective Amendment No. 1, to our
          Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed on October 31, 2003, File
          Number 033-35334) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to our
          Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 26, 2003).

10.14     Pulse Engineering, Inc. 401(K) Plan as amended (incorporated by
          reference to post-effective Amendment No. 1, to our Registration
          Statement on Form S-8 filed on October 31, 2003, File Number
          033-94073) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to our Form
          10-Q for the three months ended March 26, 2003).

10.15     Amended and Restated Short-Term Incentive Plan.

10.16     Amended and Restated Consignment Agreement, Dated May 27, 1997, by and
          among Rhode Island Hospital Trust National Bank, Doduco GmbH, Doduco
          Espana, S.A. and Technitrol, Inc. (incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.16 to our Form 10-Q for the three months ended October 1,
          2004).

10.16(1)  First Amendment to Amended and Restated Consignment Agreement, Dated
          May 27, 1997, by and among Rhode Island Hospital Trust National Bank,
          Doduco GmbH, Doduco Espana, S.A. and Technitrol, Inc. (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.16 to our Form 10-Q for the three months ended
          October 1, 2004).

10.16(2)  Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Consignment Agreement, Dated
          May 27, 1997, by and among Rhode Island Hospital Trust National Bank,
          Doduco GmbH, Doduco Espana, S.A. and Technitrol, Inc. (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.16(2) to our Form 10-Q for the three months
          ended October 1, 2004).

10.16(3)  Third Amendment to Amended and Restated Consignment Agreement, Dated
          May 27, 1997, by and among Rhode Island Hospital Trust National Bank,
          Doduco GmbH, Doduco Espana, S.A. and Technitrol, Inc. (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.16(3) to our Form 10-Q for the three months
          ended October 1, 2004).

10.17     Amended and Restated Consignment Agreement dated July 29, 2005, among
          Fleet Precious Metals Inc. d/b/a Bank of America Precious Metals,
          Technitrol, Inc. and AMI Doduco, Inc. (incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.1 to our Form 8-K dated August 2, 2005).


                                       66
<PAGE>

                            Exhibit Index, continued

10.18     Silver Lease Agreement dated April 9, 1996 between Standard Chartered
          Bank Mocatta Bullion - New York and Advanced Metallurgy, Inc. and
          Guarantee dated April 29, 1996 by Technitrol, Inc. (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.18 to our Form 10-Q for the three months ended
          October 1, 2004).

10.18(1)  Letter Agreement dated April 9, 1996 between Standard Chartered Bank
          Mocatta Bullion - New York and Advanced Metallurgy, Inc. (incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10.18(1) to our Form 10-Q for the three months
          ended October 1, 2004).

10.18(2)  Amendment to Silver Lease Agreement dated February 14, 1997 between
          Standard Chartered Bank Mocatta Bullion - New York and Advanced
          Metallurgy Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18(2) to our
          Form 10-Q for the three months ended October 1, 2004).

10.18(3)  Amendment to Silver Lease Agreement dated November 3, 1997 between
          Standard Chartered Bank Mocatta Bullion - New York and Advanced
          Metallurgy Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18(3) to our
          Form 10-Q for the three months ended October 1, 2004).

10.18(4)  Amendment to Silver Lease Agreement dated May 21, 2003 between
          Standard Chartered Bank Mocatta Bullion - New York and AMI Doduco,
          Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18(4) to our Form 10-Q
          for the three months ended October 1, 2004).

10.19     Consignment Agreement dated September 24, 2004 between Mitsui & Co.
          Precious Metals Inc., and AMI Doduco, Inc. (incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10.19 to our Form 10-Q for the three months ended October
          1, 2004).

10.20     Unlimited Guaranty dated December 16, 1996 by Technitrol, Inc. in
          favor of Rhode Island Hospital Trust National Bank (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.20 to our Form 10-Q for the three months ended
          October 1, 2004).

10.21     Corporate Guaranty dated November 1, 2004 by Technitrol, Inc. in favor
          of Mitsui & Co. Precious Metals, Inc. (incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10.21 to our Form 10-Q for the three months ended October 1,
          2004).

10.22     Separation Agreement between Technitrol, Inc. and Albert Thorp, III
          dated June 29, 2005. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to
          our Form 10-Q for the three months ended July 1, 2005).

10.23     Share Purchase Agreement dated August 8, 2005 among Pulse Electronics
          (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., as Purchaser, and Filtronic Plc and Filtronic
          Comtek Oy, as Sellers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
          our Form 8-K dated August 11. 2005).

10.24     Sale and Transfer Agreement dated November 28, 2005 among era GmbH &
          Co. KG, Pulse GmbH, CST Electronics Co., Ltd., and certain other
          parties named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
          our Form 8-K dated December 2, 2005).

10.25     CEO Annual and Long-Term Equity Incentive Process.

10.30     Schedule of Board of Director and Committee Fees (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.30 to our Form 10-K for the year ended
          December 31, 2004).

31.1      Certification of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Section
          302(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2      Certification of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Section
          302(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


                                       67
<PAGE>

                            Exhibit Index, continued

32.1      Certification of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
          Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
          Act of 2002.

32.2      Certification of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
          Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
          Act of 2002.

99.1      Unaudited financial information of Full Rise Electronic Co., Ltd. for
          the eight months ended August 31, 2004.

99.2      Audited Combined Statements of Income, Combined Balance Sheets and
          Combined Statements of Cash Flows of LK Products Oy as of December 31,
          2003 and December 31, 2004, and report of KPMG Oy Ab, Independent
          Auditors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to our Form 8-K/A
          dated November 25, 2005).

99.3      Unaudited pro forma financial results for the year ended December 31,
          2004 and nine months ended September 30, 2005, giving the effect of LK
          Products Oy (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to our Form
          8-K/A dated November 25, 2005).


                                       68
<PAGE>


                                   Signatures

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

TECHNITROL, INC.

By    /s/James M. Papada, III
     ---------------------------------------------------
      James M. Papada, III
      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Date  March 7, 2006

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

<TABLE>
<S>                                                         <C>
By    /s/Alan E. Barton                                     By    /s/Edward M. Mazze
     -------------------------------------------------           -----------------------------------------------
      Alan E. Barton                                              Edward M. Mazze
      Director                                                    Director

Date  March 7, 2006                                         Date  March 7, 2006

By    /s/John E. Burrows, Jr.                               By    /s/ C. Mark Melliar-Smith
     -------------------------------------------------           -----------------------------------------------
      John E. Burrows, Jr.                                        C. Mark Melliar-Smith
      Director                                                    Director

Date  March 7, 2006                                         Date  March 7, 2006

By    /s/Jeffrey A. Graves                                  By    /s/James M. Papada, III
     -------------------------------------------------           -----------------------------------------------
      Jeffrey A. Graves                                           James M. Papada, III
      Director                                                    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
                                                                  (Principal Executive Officer)
Date  March 7, 2006
                                                            Date  March 7, 2006
By    /s/David H. Hofmann
     -------------------------------------------------
      David H. Hofmann                                      By    /s/Drew A. Moyer
      Director                                                   -----------------------------------------------
                                                                  Drew A. Moyer
                                                                  Senior Vice President
Date  March 7, 2006                                               and Chief Financial Officer
                                                                  (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
By    /s/Dennis J. Horowitz
     -------------------------------------------------
      Dennis J. Horowitz                                    Date  March 7, 2006
      Director

Date  March 7, 2006
</TABLE>


                                       69
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.10(1)
<SEQUENCE>2
<FILENAME>d67336_ex10-10.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LETTER AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

Exhibit 10.10(1)


December 16, 2005


Mr. James M. Papada, III
[Address Omitted]


Dear Jim:

This letter will serve as an agreement between you and Technitrol,  Inc. ("TNL")
regarding, among other things, what constitutes a termination of your employment
at TNL and  setting  forth the  rights  and  obligations  of each of us upon the
occurrence of such a termination. We intend that this letter constitutes a legal
and  binding   agreement  between  us  and  we  acknowledge  good  and  valuable
consideration for our joint promises in this letter.  This agreement  supersedes
the letter between you and TNL dated July 1, 2004.

      1.    Reaffirmation of Past Agreements

      We are parties to the letter agreements dated April 16, 1999,  October 18,
2000, April 23, 2001 and this letter (collectively the "Letter  Agreement"),  as
well as the Technitrol, Inc. Supplemental Retirement Plan dated January 1, 1994,
which was  amended on July l, 1999 and April 20,  2001 and which was amended and
restated in its entirety on January 1, 2002 (the  "SERP") (the Letter  Agreement
and the SERP are collectively the "Related Agreements").  All terms,  conditions
and provisions of the Related  Agreements shall continue to apply and be in full
force and effect as though set forth in full in their entirety.

      2.    Termination of Employment

      Your employment with TNL shall terminate on December 31, 2010, or upon the
earlier occurrence of any of the following events to be effective from and after
the date of such event:

            A.    your death;

            B.    you become totally disabled;

            C.    TNL terminates your employment for "cause" (as defined below);

            D.    TNL  terminates  your  employment  for any  reason  other than
                  "cause" (as defined below);

            E.    you terminate  your  employment  for "good reason" (as defined
                  below); or


<PAGE>

            F.    you terminate your  employment for any reason other than "good
                  reason", including your voluntary retirement.

      3.    Definitions

            A.    "Cause" means any of the following:

                  o     (a)  the  occurrence  of  gross  negligence  or  willful
                        misconduct  which  is  materially  injurious  to TNL and
                        which,  if  susceptible  of cure,  is not  cured  within
                        thirty  (30) days after  notice to you which  cites with
                        reasonable   particularity   the  actions  or  omissions
                        believed to constitute such gross  negligence or willful
                        misconduct; (b) conviction of or the entry of a pleading
                        of guilty or nolo  contendere to any felony,  unless the
                        Board of Directors  of TNL  concludes in good faith that
                        such event  does not  render  you unable to  effectively
                        manage TNL or  materially  and  adversely  affect  TNL's
                        reputation  or  ongoing  business  activities;   or  (c)
                        misappropriation  of TNL's  funds  or  other  dishonesty
                        which  in  the  good  faith  opinion  of  the  Board  of
                        Directors  of TNL,  renders  you  unable to  effectively
                        manage TNL or  materially  and  adversely  affects TNL's
                        reputation or ongoing business activities; or

                  o     your  continued and willful  refusal to carry out in all
                        material  respects  a lawful  written  directive  of the
                        Board  of  Directors  of TNL;  provided  that  prior  to
                        termination for cause on this ground the Board will give
                        you written  notice of the acts or omissions  alleged to
                        constitute   cause,   stating   them   with   reasonable
                        particularity,  and will  give you  twenty  (20) days to
                        cure  such  acts or  omissions  such  that  grounds  for
                        termination for cause no longer exist at the end of such
                        twenty (20) day period.

            B.    "Change in Control" means any of the following:

                  (A) any one  "person"  or any  "group"  as  defined in Section
                  3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3), respectively, of the Securities Exchange
                  Act of  1934,  as  amended  (the  "Act"),  is or  becomes  the
                  "beneficial  owner" (as  defined in Rule  13(d)-3 of the Act),
                  directly or indirectly, of securities of TNL representing more
                  than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of TNL's
                  then outstanding securities, or

                  (B) more than fifty percent (50%) of the assets of TNL and its
                  subsidiaries,  which are used to generate more than 50% of the
                  earnings  of TNL and its  subsidiaries  in any one of the last
                  three fiscal years,  are disposed of,  directly or indirectly,
                  by TNL (including stock or assets of a


<PAGE>

                  subsidiary(ies)) in a sale, exchange,  merger,  reorganization
                  or similar transaction.

            C.    "Disability"  or "complete  disability" or "total  disability"
                  shall  mean that you are  unable to engage in any  substantial
                  gainful  activity  by  reason  of any  medically  determinable
                  physical or mental  impairment which can be expected to result
                  in death or can be  expected to last for a  continuous  period
                  not less than 12 months.

            D.    "Good Reason" means:

                  o     a  material   change  in  your   authority,   duties  or
                        responsibilities  so as to be inconsistent with the role
                        of the Chief  Executive  Officer of TNL as they exist on
                        the  date  of  this   letter   (unless   you   otherwise
                        voluntarily agree to such change); or

                  o     TNL's   continued   failure  to  perform  its   material
                        obligations  under the Letter  Agreement  which have not
                        been cured within twenty (20) days after written  notice
                        from you setting forth the acts or omissions  alleged to
                        constitute such a failure with reasonable particularity.

            E.    "Sec. 409A" means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of
                  1986, as amended,  and the rules and  regulations  promulgated
                  thereunder.

      4.    Effect of Termination

                  (i)   Death or  Retirement:  Upon  termination  of the  Letter
                        Agreement   due  to  your  death,   or  your   voluntary
                        retirement after the age of 62, then (in addition to the
                        benefits  referred  to in  Sections  6(b) and (c) of the
                        Letter  Agreement  relating  to vesting of the PBRS upon
                        death), TNL will pay you or your estate a sum equal to:

                              a.    The  unpaid  portion  of  your  base  salary
                                    through  the  end  of  the  month  in  which
                                    termination occurs;

                              b.    any bonus  (commensurate  with those paid to
                                    other  executives)  for the six month  bonus
                                    period in which termination occurs pro rated
                                    to the date of termination; and

                              c.    any other ordinary  course benefits to which
                                    you  were  entitled  as an  employee  of TNL
                                    and/or  pursuant  to  the  Letter  Agreement
                                    which  were then due but  unpaid at the date
                                    of your death, such as


<PAGE>

                                    reimbursement  for expenses not yet paid and
                                    incurred in accordance with TNL's policy.

                              d.    all  of the  benefits  referred  to in  this
                                    Section 4(i)  (including  those contained in
                                    Sections   6(b)   and  (c)  of  the   Letter
                                    Agreement)  will  be  paid  not  later  than
                                    thirty  (30)  days  after  the  date of your
                                    death or retirement.

                  (ii)  Total   Disability:   Upon  termination  of  the  Letter
                        Agreement  due to your  complete  disability,  then  (in
                        addition to providing to you the benefits referred to in
                        Sections 6(b) and (c) of the Letter  Agreement  relating
                        to vesting of the PBRS upon  disability)TNL will pay you
                        a sum equal to:

                              a.    The  unpaid  portion  of  your  base  salary
                                    through  the  end  of  the  month  in  which
                                    termination is determined to have occurred;

                              b.    any bonus  (commensurate  with those paid to
                                    other  executives)  for the six month  bonus
                                    period in which termination is determined to
                                    have  occurred,  pro  rated  to the  date of
                                    termination;

                              c.    any other ordinary  course benefits to which
                                    you  were  entitled  as an  employee  of TNL
                                    and/or  pursuant  to  the  Letter  Agreement
                                    which  were then due but  unpaid at the date
                                    of your  disability,  such as  reimbursement
                                    for  expenses  not yet paid and  incurred in
                                    accordance with TNL's policy; and

                              d.    the benefits  payable under TNL's  long-term
                                    disability plan.

                              e.    the  benefits  set forth in  subsections  a.
                                    thru c. above and the  benefits  referred to
                                    in  Sections  6(b)  and  (c) of  the  Letter
                                    Agreement will be paid not later than thirty
                                    (30)  days  after  the  date on  which  your
                                    complete disability is deemed to commence.

                  (iii) By TNL for Cause or by You  Without  Good  Reason:  Upon
                        termination of the Letter  Agreement by TNL for Cause or
                        by you without  Good  Reason,  TNL will pay you,  within
                        thirty (30) days after the date of your  termination,  a
                        sum equal to:


<PAGE>

                              a.    The  unpaid  portion  of  your  base  salary
                                    through the effective  date of  termination;
                                    and

                              b.    any other ordinary  course benefits to which
                                    you  were  entitled  as an  employee  of TNL
                                    and/or  pursuant  to  the  Letter  Agreement
                                    which  were then due but  unpaid at the date
                                    of termination,  such as  reimbursement  for
                                    expenses   not  yet  paid  and  incurred  in
                                    accordance with TNL's policy.

                  (iv)  By TNL  Without  Cause or by You for Good  Reason:  Upon
                        termination of the Letter Agreement by TNL without Cause
                        or by you for Good  Reason,  you will receive all of the
                        benefits set forth in Section 8 of the Letter  Agreement
                        as though a Change in Control had occurred, with respect
                        to any  shares of  restricted  stock  held by you on the
                        date of such  termination  which  have not yet vested or
                        which are subject to additional  holding  period(s).  In
                        addition,  TNL will pay you a sum  equal to (in the case
                        of the  payments  due  under  Section  8 of  the  Letter
                        Agreement or  subsections  (a), (c) and (d) below,  such
                        payment  shall be made in a lump sum within  thirty (30)
                        days from the date of your termination or, if necessary,
                        in the  opinion of  counsel,  to ensure that this Letter
                        Agreement is in compliance  with Sec.  409A, on the date
                        that  is  six   months   after   your   termination   of
                        employment):

                              a.    The  unpaid  portion  of  your  base  salary
                                    through the date of termination;

                              b.    any bonus  (commensurate  with those paid to
                                    other executives) for the twelve month bonus
                                    period in which  termination  occurred,  pro
                                    rated  to the date of  termination  (without
                                    duplication  with  payments made pursuant to
                                    subsection  d. below) and paid within  2-1/2
                                    months  after  the end of the  year in which
                                    your termination occurs or, if necessary, in
                                    the opinion of counsel,  to ensure that this
                                    Letter  Agreement is in compliance with Sec.
                                    409A,  on the date that is six months  after
                                    your termination of employment;

                              c.    any other ordinary  course benefits to which
                                    you  were  entitled  as an  employee  of TNL
                                    and/or  pursuant  to  the  Letter  Agreement
                                    which  were then due but  unpaid at the date
                                    of termination,  such as  reimbursement  for
                                    expenses   not  yet  paid  and  incurred  in
                                    accordance with TNL's policy; and


<PAGE>

                              d.    the amount set forth in subsections 8(a) and
                                    (b) of the Letter Agreement, except that (1)
                                    such   amount   shall  not  be   payable  if
                                    termination  occurs  at  any  time  after  a
                                    Change   in   Control,   and   (2)  if  such
                                    termination  occurs at any time after August
                                    21, 2008, you will be entitled to one year's
                                    base salary  (instead of two) and six months
                                    of bonus  (commensurate  with  those paid to
                                    other executives) (instead of one year); and

                              e.    health and life  insurance  benefits on your
                                    behalf  as you  were  receiving  them on the
                                    date of  termination  along with your health
                                    club  membership,   in  each  case  for  the
                                    applicable time period  corresponding to the
                                    salary  severance  period (that is, one year
                                    or two years)  provided in  subsection  d(2)
                                    above.   TNL  will  continue  to  pay  these
                                    expenses  on your  behalf  when  due for the
                                    period indicated in the preceding  sentence.
                                    However, if it is necessary,  in the opinion
                                    of  counsel,  to  ensure  that  this  Letter
                                    Agreement is in compliance  with Sec.  409A,
                                    you  may pay  any or all of  these  expenses
                                    when due until  the date that is six  months
                                    after  the  date  of  your   termination  of
                                    employment  and TNL will  reimburse  you for
                                    such expenses that you have paid on the date
                                    which is six months  after your  termination
                                    date.

                  (v)   General.

                              a.    Any  indemnification  obligations  of TNL to
                                    which  you  are   entitled  as  a  director,
                                    officer  and  employee  of TNL,  whether  by
                                    contract  or  pursuant  to TNL's  charter or
                                    by-laws,  relating  to the  period  prior to
                                    termination,  shall survive such termination
                                    but no payment  relating to such obligations
                                    shall be paid to you  after  termination  of
                                    your employment  until the date which is six
                                    months  after  the date of your  termination
                                    and shall  thereafter  be paid to you as and
                                    when due in accordance  with  applicable law
                                    and the constituent documents of TNL.

                              b.    The  obligations  of TNL in this  Section  4
                                    (together  with  TNL's  obligations  to  you
                                    under the SERP,  TNL's Restricted Stock Plan
                                    (or  any   substitute   therefor)   and  the
                                    "Technitrol, Inc. Retirement


<PAGE>

                                    Plan")   shall  be  in  lieu  of  any  other
                                    damages,  compensation  or benefits to which
                                    you   might   be   entitled,   directly   or
                                    indirectly,  in connection  with the Related
                                    Agreements.

                              c.    The payments due to you under this Section 4
                                    are expressly conditioned upon the execution
                                    and  delivery  by you and/or  your  personal
                                    representatives  of a valid general release,
                                    not revoked, rescinded or withdrawn, in form
                                    and content reasonably acceptable to you and
                                    TNL, pursuant to which you shall release TNL
                                    from all claims  relating to your employment
                                    or   otherwise,   except  TNL's   continuing
                                    obligations under subsection 4(v) a. above.

      5.    Participation in Restricted Stock Plan

            From and after  December 31,  2004,  you will  participate  in TNL's
Restricted Stock Plan (or any substitute therefor) in accordance with its terms.
Your awards will be  determined by the Board of Directors in the same fashion as
awards are determined for other participants.

      6.    Capacity and Duties.

            You shall  devote your full  working  time,  energy,  skill and best
efforts to the performance of your duties set forth in the Letter Agreement,  in
a manner which will faithfully and diligently further the business and interests
of TNL and its  subsidiaries,  and shall not be employed by, or  participate  or
engage in, or be a part of in any manner,  the  management  or  operation of any
other business  enterprise without the prior written consent of the Board, which
consent may be granted or withheld in its sole discretion.

      7.    Confidentiality.

            You acknowledge a duty of confidentiality owed to TNL and shall not,
at any time during or after your  employment  by TNL,  retain in  writing,  use,
divulge,   furnish,   or  make   accessible  to  anyone,   without  the  express
authorization  of  the  Board,   any  trade  secret,   private  or  confidential
information or knowledge of TNL or any of its subsidiaries  obtained or acquired
while so employed. All computer software,  customer lists, price lists, contract
forms,  catalogs,  books,  records,  and files and  know-how  acquired  while an
employee of TNL,  are  acknowledged  to be the  property of TNL and shall not be
duplicated,  removed from TNL's possession, or made use of other than in pursuit
of TNL's business; and, upon termination of employment for any reason, you shall
promptly  deliver to TNL,  without further demand,  all copies thereof which are
then in your possession or control.


<PAGE>

      8.    Inventions and Improvements.

            During the term of your employment,  you shall promptly  communicate
to TNL all ideas,  discoveries and inventions  which are or may be useful to TNL
or its business. You acknowledge that all ideas,  discoveries,  inventions,  and
improvements which are made, conceived,  or reduced to practice by you and every
item of knowledge  relating to TNL's  business  interests  (including  potential
business  interests)  gained by you during your  employment  are the property of
TNL,  and you  irrevocably  assign  all  such  ideas,  discoveries,  inventions,
improvements,  and  knowledge  to TNL for its  sole  use  and  benefit,  without
additional compensation. The provisions of this Section shall apply whether such
ideas, discoveries, inventions, improvements or knowledge are conceived, made or
gained by you alone or with others, whether during or after usual working hours,
whether on or off the job, whether  applicable to matters directly or indirectly
related to TNL's business interests  (including  potential business  interests),
and  whether  or not  within  the  specific  realm of your  duties.  It shall be
conclusively presumed that ideas, inventions, and improvements relating to TNL's
business  interests or potential  business  interests  conceived  during the six
month period  following  termination of employment are, for the purposes of this
Agreement, conceived prior to termination of employment. You shall, upon request
of TNL,  at any  time  during  or  after  your  employment  with  TNL,  sign all
instruments and documents  requested by TNL and otherwise  cooperate with TNL to
protect  its right to such ideas,  discoveries,  inventions,  improvements,  and
knowledge,   including  applying  for,  obtaining,  and  enforcing  patents  and
copyrights thereon in any and all countries.

      9.    Noncompetition.

            During the term of your  employment  and for two (2) years after any
termination of employment, you shall not directly or indirectly:

                  (i)   engage,  directly or indirectly,  anywhere in the world,
                        in the manufacture,  assembly,  design,  distribution or
                        marketing  of any  product  or  equipment  substantially
                        similar  to  or  in  competition  with  any  product  or
                        equipment  which  at any  time  during  the term of such
                        employment  or the  immediately  preceding  twelve month
                        period has been manufactured, sold or distributed by TNL
                        or any subsidiary or any product or equipment  which TNL
                        or any subsidiary was developing  during such period for
                        future manufacture, sale or distribution;

                  (ii)  be or become a  stockholder,  partner,  owner,  officer,
                        director or employee or agent of, or a consultant  to or
                        give  financial  or other  assistance  to, any person or
                        entity considering engaging in any such activities or so
                        engaged;

                  (iii) seek in competition  with the business of TNL to procure
                        orders from or do business with any customer of TNL;


<PAGE>

                  (iv)  solicit,  or contact  with a view to the  engagement  or
                        employment by, any person or entity of any person who is
                        an employee of TNL;

                  (v)   seek to  contract  with or  engage  (in such a way as to
                        adversely  affect or interfere with the business of TNL)
                        any  person or entity  who has been  contracted  with or
                        engaged  to  manufacture,  assemble,  supply or  deliver
                        products, goods, materials or services to TNL; or

                  engage in or participate in any effort or act to induce any of
                  the customers, associates, consultants, or employees of TNL or
                  any of its  affiliates  to take  any  action  which  might  be
                  disadvantageous  to TNL or any of its affiliates;  except that
                  nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit you from owning, as a
                  passive  investor,  in the  aggregate  not more than 5% of the
                  outstanding  publicly  traded  stock  of  any  corporation  so
                  engaged.  The  duration  of your  covenants  set forth in this
                  Section  shall be  extended  by a period of time  equal to the
                  number of days,  if any,  during which you are in violation of
                  the provisions contained in this Agreement.

      10.   Certain Change in Control Payment Timing Issues.

            If a Change  in  Control  occurs  and you are  entitled  to  payment
pursuant to Section 8 of the Letter  Agreement for that reason,  then (a) if the
Change in Control event is one which is described in Sec. 409A, all benefits due
you shall be paid to you  immediately  upon the Change in Control and (b) if the
Change in Control event is not one which is described in Sec. 409A, the benefits
due to you shall be paid on the date which is six months  after the  termination
of your employment.

      11.   Injunctive and Other Relief.

            A.    You acknowledge that the covenants contained in this Agreement
                  are fair and  reasonable  in light of the  consideration  paid
                  under this  Agreement,  and that damages alone shall not be an
                  adequate remedy for any breach by you of such  covenants,  and
                  accordingly  expressly  agree  that,  in addition to any other
                  remedies  which  TNL  may  have,  TNL  shall  be  entitled  to
                  injunctive  relief in any court of competent  jurisdiction for
                  any breach or threatened  breach of any such covenants by you.
                  Nothing contained in this Agreement shall prevent or delay TNL
                  from seeking, in any court of competent jurisdiction, specific
                  performance  or other  equitable  remedies in the event of any
                  breach or  intended  breach by you of any of your  obligations
                  under this Agreement.

            B.    Notwithstanding the equitable relief available to TNL, you, in
                  the event of a breach of your covenants  contained in Sections
                  7,  8  and  9  of  this   Agreement,   understand   that   the
                  uncertainties  and delays  inherent in the legal process would
                  result in a continuing breach for some period of time,


<PAGE>

                  and therefore,  continuing  injury to TNL until and unless TNL
                  can obtain such equitable  relief.  Therefore,  in addition to
                  such  equitable  relief,  TNL shall be  entitled  to  monetary
                  damages for any such period of breach until the termination of
                  such  breach,  in an  amount  deemed  reasonable  to cover all
                  actual and consequential  losses,  plus all monies received by
                  you as a result of said  breach  and all costs and  attorneys'
                  fees  incurred  by TNL in  enforcing  this  Agreement.  If you
                  should  use or  reveal  to any  other  person  or  entity  any
                  confidential information, this will be considered a continuing
                  violation  on a daily  basis  for so long a period  of time as
                  such  confidential  information  is made  use of by you or any
                  such other person or entity.

      12.   Miscellaneous Provisions

            A.    Neither you nor TNL will assign the Letter  Agreement  without
                  the prior written consent of the other.  The Letter  Agreement
                  will bind any successors to TNL by merger or stock purchase.

            B.    Notices shall be as set forth in the Related Agreements.

            C.    The Related  Agreements  are the entire  agreement  between us
                  regarding the subject matter to which it relates and supersede
                  all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written. They
                  cannot be  amended,  changed or  modified  except in a writing
                  signed by both parties.

            D.    The  Letter  Agreement  will  be  governed  and  construed  in
                  accordance with Pennsylvania law.


              [THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK]


<PAGE>

            E.    The invalidity or unenforceability of any particular provision
                  or part of any  provision  of the Letter  Agreement  shall not
                  affect the other provisions or parts of the Letter  Agreement.
                  If any  provision of the Letter  Agreement is determined to be
                  invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction,
                  such provision  shall be interpreted to provide  protection as
                  nearly equivalent to that found to be invalid or unenforceable
                  and if any such provision shall be so determined to be invalid
                  or  unenforceable  by reason of the  duration or  geographical
                  scope  of the  covenants  contained  in this  Agreement,  such
                  duration or geographical  scope, or both,  shall be considered
                  to be  reduced  to a  duration  or  geographical  scope to the
                  extent necessary to cure such invalidity.


If the foregoing meets with your approval, please sign where indicated below and
return a signed copy to me.


                                        Sincerely,

                                        TECHNITROL, INC.


                                        /s/ David W. Lacey
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        David W. Lacey
                                        Vice President, Human Resources


                                        ACCEPTED AND AGREED


Witness:

/s/ David W. Lacey                      /s/ James M. Papada, III
- ------------------------------          --------------------------------------
David W. Lacey                          James M. Papada, III
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.15
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>d67336_ex10-15.txt
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED AND RESTATED SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
<TEXT>

Exhibit 10.15


                 Amended and Restated Short-Term Incentive Plan

A.    Purpose

      Establish and reinforce an entrepreneurial culture which values smart
      risk-taking and continuous innovation to maximize operating results and
      shareholder value. This executive compensation philosophy is best
      described as "high risk, high reward".

B.    Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP)

      1.  Targets for any or all of Economic Profit (EP), Net Operating Profit
          (NOP) and Earnings Per Share (EPS) are established annually as part of
          the Company's semi-annual planning cycle. Targets must be achieved
          after payment of STIP and charges for restricted stock and stock
          options.

      2.  STIP has one funding pool.

      3.  The amount of the STIP funding pool is based on business performance,
          specific incentive targets for each executive and individual executive
          performance. The intention of the Compensation Committee is to award
          the entire pool, once earned; but it (the Compensation Committee)
          retains the discretion to raise or lower the pool total, as dictated
          by overall business performance. STIP, if earned, is paid twice a year
          as follows:

          a.  Less than 85% of Target, no STIP payout.

          b.  Greater than 85%, STIP payout in accordance with percentage of net
              operating profit as determined by Compensation Committee.

      4.  Compensation Committee can award a STIP even if not earned pursuant to
          the formula above to reward significant performance improvements on
          other operating achievements which may be outside the targeted
          metrics.

      5.  Targets for EP, NOP and EPS vary semi-annually. Payouts for the first
          half of each year are tied to the projections for that period prepared
          in the Fall of the preceding year, STIP awards, if earned, for the
          second half of each year are tied to projections prepared in the
          Spring of the year in questions.

      6.  The Compensation Committee approves the pool total, when earned and
          calculated.

      7.  The CEO recommends to the Committee and the Committee approves awards
          for the corporate officers. The Compensation Committee reviews and
          recommends to the Board the STIP awards for the CEO.

      8.  The President of each Segment allocates the pool for his executives
          based on their targets and performance, in consultation with the CEO.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.25
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>d67336_ex10-25.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CEO ANNUAL AND LONG-TERM EQUITY INCENTIVE PROCESS
<TEXT>

Exhibit 10.25


                CEO ANNUAL AND LONG-TERM EQUITY INCENTIVE PROCESS

A.    Overview

              1.  The CEO's equity incentive will be paid in TNL restricted
                  stock which will be issued and governed by Restricted Stock
                  Plan II, except as otherwise provided in this document.

              2.  The CEO's equity incentive will have two parts:

                      a.  An annual equity incentive which will be determined by
                          the degree to which the CEO achieves his/her annual,
                          non-financial goals as agreed upon by the Board and
                          the CEO.

                      b.  A long-term equity incentive which will be determined
                          by the degree to which the Board determines that the
                          CEO has, through his leadership and guidance, created
                          long-term value for the various constituents of the
                          Company. It is recognized that the Board's
                          determination will be both quantitative and
                          qualitative, but will not necessarily be based on
                          specific goals or targets.

              3.  All determinations by the Board regarding the degree to which
                  the CEO has earned annual or long-term equity incentive will
                  be final and absolute.

B.    Process

              1.  Annual Equity Incentive

                      a.  The number of shares comprising the CEO's annual
                          equity incentive will be determined each year by the
                          Compensation Committee and approved by the Board at
                          the January meeting. (Note: for 2005, the CEO's equity
                          incentive will be a maximum of 15,000 shares of TNL
                          stock).

                      b.  Not later that January 10 each year, the CEO will
                          circulate to the Board his/her evaluation of his/her
                          performance against his prior year's goals and other
                          matters which the CEO believes are relevant and
                          germane to an understanding of his/her performance
                          against these goals.

                      c.  Not later than January 10 of each year, each Board
                          member will submit to the Chair of the Compensation
                          Committee his/her evaluation of the CEO's past year's
                          performance using the then standard TNL rating
                          assessment form as may be modified by the Compensation
                          Committee specifically for the CEO from time to time.

                      d.  At the private session after the January board meeting
                          each year, the Board and CEO will meet for the annual
                          CEO evaluation discussion. At this meeting, they will
                          discuss the CEO's performance against his/her annual
                          non-financial goals and the assessment forms earlier
                          submitted by the Board (which will have been tallied
                          and summarized by the Chairman of the Compensation
                          Committee). As a result of that process, the Board
                          will determine to what degree the CEO has earned his
                          annual equity incentive


<PAGE>

                          award (from zero to 100%). The restricted shares
                          granted as a result will be issued by the Company as
                          soon as possible thereafter and will have a one-year
                          vesting period from the date of grant.

              2.  Long-Term Equity Award

                      a.  Every three years the Board will review the CEO's
                          overall long-term performance to determine his/her
                          contribution to building long-term value for the
                          Company and all of its constituents.

                      b.  The Board and CEO recognize the inherent difficulty in
                          constructing three-year plans, goals or specific,
                          objective performance criteria due to changing
                          circumstances, shifting priorities, external and
                          internal events as well as the shifting nature of the
                          businesses in which the Company is engaged.

                      c.  Accordingly, the CEO's long-term equity award will be
                          based on the Board's subjective judgment (into which
                          account will be taken the CEO's views and opinions on
                          his/her long-term performance) regarding how the
                          Company has progressed over rolling three-year periods
                          (the first period will end on December 31, 2007, the
                          second on December 31, 2010, and so on until otherwise
                          determined by the Board).

                      d.  The criteria the Board may look at in determining the
                          CEO's long-term performance will include, but not be
                          limited to, total shareholder return for the period,
                          performance against the Company's identified peer
                          group in the various metrics the Company periodically
                          measures, performance against the indices the Company
                          utilizes in its proxy disclosure, changes in revenues,
                          changes in operating profit (both in dollars and
                          percentage of revenues), changes in economic profit,
                          acquisitions and divestitures, geographic changes in
                          operations; changes in markets addressed; changes in
                          analysts' coverage of the Company; succession
                          planning; talent development and any other metrics
                          which the Board determines are relevant to assessing
                          the overall long-term performance of the Company
                          taking into account both internal and external
                          circumstances during the period.

                      e.  The CEO's long-term equity incentive award will be set
                          at the beginning of each three-year period. (For the
                          initial period ended December 31, 2007, the maximum
                          equity incentive award will be 25,000 shares).
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>d67336_ex21.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
<TEXT>

Exhibit 21

                         Subsidiaries of the Registrant

     Technitrol, Inc., which has no parent, has the following subsidiaries:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Name                                                                  Incorporation                  Percent Owned
- ----                                                                  -------------                  -------------
<S>                                                                   <C>                                 <C>
AMI Doduco Components B.V. (Netherlands)                              Netherlands                         100%
AMI Doduco (DE), LLC                                                  Delaware                            100%
AMI Doduco Espana, S. L.                                              Spain                               100%
AMI Doduco (France) S. A. S.                                          France                              100%
AMI Doduco GmbH                                                       Germany                             100%
AMI Doduco Hungary Kft.                                               Hungary                             100%
AMI Doduco Holding GmbH                                               Germany                             100%
AMI Doduco, Inc.                                                      Pennsylvania                        100%
AMI Doduco Investors (DE), LLC                                        Delaware                            100%
AMI Doduco Italia Holdings S.r.l.                                     Italy                               100%
AMI Doduco Italia S.r.l.                                              Italy                               100%
AMI Doduco (Mexico), S. de R. L. de C. V.                             Mexico                              100%
AMI Doduco (NC), Inc.                                                 Delaware                            100%
AMI Doduco Nederland B.V.                                             Netherlands                         100%
AMI Doduco (PR), LLC                                                  Delaware                            100%
AMI Doduco Singapore Holding Pte. Ltd.                                Singapore                           100%
AMI Doduco (Tianjin) Electrical Contacts Manufacturing Co. Ltd.       People's Republic of China          100%
AMI Doduco (UK) Ltd.                                                  United Kingdom                      100%
Boothbay Pte. Ltd.                                                    Singapore                           100%
Changshu Full Rise Electronic Co, Ltd.                                Peoples Republic of China            57%
CST Electronics Co., Ltd.                                             Hong Kong                           100%
Dongguan Pulse Electronics Co., Ltd.                                  People's Republic of China          100%
Electro Componentes Mexicana S. A. de C. V.                           Mexico                              100%
Electro Corporacion Mexicana S. A. de C. V.                           Mexico                              100%
Everelite Developments Ltd.                                           West Samoa                           57%
Excelsus Technologies Limited                                         Hong Kong                           100%
Full Rich (Ning Bo) Electronic co., Ltd.                              Peoples Republic of China            57%
Full Rise Electronic Co., Ltd. (Fuliwang)                             Peoples Republic of China            57%
Full Rise Electronic Co., Ltd. (Hong Kong)                            Hong Kong                            57%
Full Rise Electronics Pte. Ltd. (Singapore)                           Singapore                            57%
Full Rise Electronic Co., Ltd. (Taiwan)                               Taiwan                               57%
Krantz Computer, Inc.                                                 Delaware                            100%
LK Products (Overseas Holdings)                                       United Kingdom                      100%
LK Products Oy                                                        Finland                             100%
LK Products Hungary Industrial Ltd. (Hungary)                         Hungary                             100%
LK Products (Suzhou) Telecommunication Components Co. Ltd. (PRC)      Peoples Republic of China           100%
Maxtop Profits Limited                                                Samoa                                57%
Maxtop (Ning Bo) Telecom Electronic Co, Ltd.                          Peoples Republic of China            57%
MCS Holdings, Inc.                                                    Delaware                            100%
Pulse Canada Ltd.                                                     Canada                              100%
Pulse Components Ltd. (Hong Kong)                                     Hong Kong                           100%
Pulse Elektronik Sanay Ticaret L.S.                                   Turkey                              100%
Pulse Electronics (Europe) Ltd.                                       United Kingdom                      100%
Pulse Electronics Ltd. (Hong Kong)                                    Hong Kong                           100%
Pulse Electronics (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.                               Singapore                           100%
Pulse Engineering, Inc.                                               Delaware                            100%
Pulse GmbH                                                            Germany                             100%
Pulse Italy S.r.L.                                                    Italy                               100%
Pulse S.A.S.                                                          France                              100%
Samoa Glory Profit Trading, Ltd.                                      West Samoa                           57%
Smart Jumbo Industries Limited                                        Hong Kong                           100%
Technitrol Delaware, Inc.                                             Delaware                            100%
Technitrol Singapore Holdings Pte. Ltd.                               Singapore                           100%
TNL Singapore Components Holdings Pte. Ltd.                           Singapore                           100%
</TABLE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>d67336_ex23.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
<TEXT>

Exhibit 23

            Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors
Technitrol, Inc.:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statement (Nos.
033-35334, 033-63203, 333-55751, 333-94073, 333-64068, 333-64060, and
333-130013) on Form S-8 of Technitrol, Inc. of our reports dated March 7, 2006,
with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Technitrol, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, cash flows, and changes in shareholders'
equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 30, 2005,
and the related financial statement schedule, management's assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 30,
2005 and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of
December 30, 2005, which reports appear in the December 30, 2005 annual report
on Form 10-K of Technitrol, Inc. Our report refers to the Company's adoption of
Financial Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations in 2005.


/s/KPMG LLP


Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
March 7, 2006
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>d67336_ex31-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS
<TEXT>

Exhibit 31.1

                  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                      pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)

I, James M. Papada, III, certify that:

      1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Technitrol;

      2.  Based on my  knowledge,  this  report  does  not  contain  any  untrue
          statement  of a  material  fact  or  omit to  state  a  material  fact
          necessary to make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances
          under which such  statements were made, not misleading with respect to
          the period covered by this report;

      3.  Based on my knowledge,  the financial statements,  and other financial
          information  included in this  Annual  Report,  fairly  present in all
          material respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and
          cash flows of registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
          report;

      4.  The registrant's  other  certifying  officer and I are responsible for
          establishing  and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as
          defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(e) and  15d-15(e))  and internal
          control  over  financial  reporting  (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
          13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

              a)  designed such disclosure  controls and  procedures,  or caused
                  such  disclosure  controls and procedures to be designed under
                  our supervision,  to ensure that material information relating
                  to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
                  made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
                  during the period in which this report is being prepared; and

              b)  designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
                  caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
                  designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
                  assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
                  the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
                  in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
                  and

              c)  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure
                  controls and procedures and presented in this report our
                  conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
                  and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
                  report based on such evaluation; and

              d)  disclosed  in  this  report  any  change  in the  registrant's
                  internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
                  the   registrant's   most  recent  fiscal   quarter  that  has
                  materially  affected,  or is  reasonably  likely to materially
                  affect,  the  registrant's  internal  control  over  financial
                  reporting.

      5.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed,  based
          on our most recent  evaluation  of  internal  control  over  financial
          reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the
          registrant's  board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
          function):

              a)  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
                  design or operation of internal control over financial
                  reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
                  registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
                  financial information; and

              b)  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
                  or other employees who have a significant role in the
                  registrant's internal control over financial reporting.


Date: March 7, 2006                         /s/ James M. Papada, III
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            James M. Papada, III
                                            Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
                                            (Principal Executive Officer)

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31.2
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>d67336_ex31-2.txt
<DESCRIPTION>RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS
<TEXT>

Exhibit 31.2

                  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER
                      pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)

I, Drew A. Moyer, certify that:

      1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Technitrol;

      2.  Based on my  knowledge,  this  report  does  not  contain  any  untrue
          statement  of a  material  fact  or  omit to  state  a  material  fact
          necessary to make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances
          under which such  statements were made, not misleading with respect to
          the period covered by this report;

      3.  Based on my knowledge,  the financial statements,  and other financial
          information  included in this  Annual  Report,  fairly  present in all
          material respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and
          cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods  presented in
          this report;

      4.  The registrant's  other  certifying  officer and I are responsible for
          establishing  and maintaining  disclosure  controls and procedures (as
          defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(e) and  15d-15(e))  and internal
          control  over  financial  reporting  (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
          13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

              a)  designed such disclosure  controls and  procedures,  or caused
                  such  disclosure  controls and procedures to be designed under
                  our supervision,  to ensure that material information relating
                  to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
                  made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
                  during the period in which this report is being prepared; and

              b)  designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
                  caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
                  designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
                  assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
                  the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
                  in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
                  and

              c)  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure
                  controls and procedures and presented in this report our
                  conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
                  and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
                  report based on such evaluation; and

              d)  disclosed  in  this  report  any  change  in the  registrant's
                  internal control over financial reporting that occurred during
                  the registrant's  most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
                  fourth  fiscal  quarter in the case of an annual  report) that
                  has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
                  affect,  the  registrant's  internal  control  over  financial
                  reporting.

      5.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed,  based
          on our most recent  evaluation  of  internal  control  over  financial
          reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the
          registrant's  board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
          function):

              a)  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
                  design or operation of internal control over financial
                  reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
                  registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report
                  financial information; and

              b)  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
                  or other employees who have a significant role in the
                  registrant's internal control over financial reporting.


Date: March 7, 2006                 /s/ Drew A. Moyer
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                    Drew A. Moyer
                                    Senior Vice President and
                                    Chief Financial Officer
                                    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32.1
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>d67336_ex32-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS
<TEXT>

Exhibit 32.1

                  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER
  pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code

I, James M. Papada, III, Chief Executive Officer of Technitrol, Inc., certify,
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1)   the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2005
      (the "Periodic Report"), which this statement accompanies, fully complies
      with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
      Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)); and

(2)   information contained in the Periodic Report fairly presents, in all
      material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of
      Technitrol, Inc.


Dated: March 7, 2006

                                             /s/ James M. Papada, III
                                             ------------------------
                                             James M. Papada, III


A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has been provided to Technitrol, Inc., and will be
retained by Technitrol, Inc., and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.

This certification accompanies the Form 10-K to which it relates, is not deemed
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not to be incorporated
by reference into any filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933
or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (whether made before or after the date of
the Form 10-K), irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in
such filing.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32.2
<SEQUENCE>10
<FILENAME>d67336_ex32-2.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS
<TEXT>

Exhibit 32.2

                  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER
  pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code

I, Drew A. Moyer, Chief Financial Officer of Technitrol, Inc., certify, pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

(1)   the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2005
      (the "Periodic Report"), which this statement accompanies, fully complies
      with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
      Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)); and

(2)   information contained in the Periodic Report fairly presents, in all
      material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of
      Technitrol, Inc.


Dated: March 7, 2006

                                             /s/ Drew A. Moyer
                                             -----------------
                                             Drew A. Moyer


A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has been provided to Technitrol, Inc., and will be
retained by Technitrol, Inc., and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.

This certification accompanies the Form 10-K to which it relates, is not deemed
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not to be incorporated
by reference into any filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933
or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (whether made before or after the date of
the Form 10-K), irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in
such filing.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>11
<FILENAME>d67336_ex99-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>UNAUDITED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
<TEXT>

Exhibit 99.1

                       Full Rise Electronics Company Ltd.
                     Consolidated Balance Sheet - Unaudited
                                 August 31, 2004
                         (In Thousands of U.S. Dollars)

Assets
Cash & Cash Equivalents                                            $     11,748
Trade Receivables - Net                                                  10,278
Other Receivables                                                           407
Raw Materials - Net                                                         764
Work in Process - Net                                                     3,119
Finished Goods - Net                                                      1,420
                                                                   ------------
   Inventory - Net                                                        5,303
                                                                   ------------
Prepaid & Other Current Assets                                            1,404
Deferred Taxes - Short Term                                                 122
                                                                   ------------
     Total Current Assets                                                29,262
                                                                   ------------
Intercompany Receivables                                                  2,502
Land                                                                        918
Building                                                                  5,577
Machinery & Equipment                                                    11,976
Office Furniture & Fixture                                                  934
Automobiles                                                                 329
Construction in Process                                                   1,476
Others                                                                    1,616
Leasehold Improvements                                                        0
                                                                   ------------
   Fixed Assets - Gross                                                  22,826
                                                                   ------------
   Accumulated Depreciation                                              (4,245)
                                                                   ------------
   Total Fixed Assets - Net                                              18,581
Goodwill & Intangibles - Gross                                            1,719
Total Accum. Amortization Goodwill & Intangibles                              0
                                                                   ------------
   Goodwill & Intangibles - Net                                           1,719
                                                                   ------------
Minority Owned Investment                                                     0
                                                                   ------------
   Total Long Term Assets                                                22,909
                                                                   ------------
     Total Assets                                                  $     52,171
                                                                   ============

Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                                   $      6,113
Notes Payable to Banks                                                    2,482
Current Portion of L/T Debt                                                 104
Short-term loans                                                          5,538
Accrued expenses                                                          2,596
Accrued Income Taxes                                                        702
Other Current Liabilities                                                    75
Other Accrued Liabilities                                                   731
                                                                   ------------
   Total Current Liabilities                                             18,341
                                                                   ------------
Accrued Pension Liabilities                                                 384
Other Long Term Liabilities                                               3,908
Long Term Debt                                                            1,036
                                                                   ------------
     Total Liabilities                                             $     23,669
                                                                   ============

Stockholders' Equity
Common Stock                                                       $     13,432
APIC                                                                     27,271
Retained Earnings - Beginning Balance                                   (10,165)
Dividends                                                                (5,695)
Current Year Earnings                                                     2,703
Cumulated translation adjustment                                            956
                                                                   ------------
Retained Earnings - Ending Balance                                      (13,157)
                                                                   ------------
     Total Equity                                                        28,502
                                                                   ------------
     Total Liabilities & Equity                                    $     52,171
                                                                   ============


<PAGE>

Exhibit 99.1 - continued

                       Full Rise Electronics Company Ltd.
                  Consolidated Statement of Income - Unaudited
                       Eight Months Ended August 31, 2004
                         (In Thousands of U.S. Dollars)

Nonprecious Metal                                                  $     29,067
Precious Metal                                                                0
                                                                   ------------
   Net Sales                                                             29,067

Labor                                                                     2,407
Materials - Non-Precious Metals                                          13,184
Materials - Precious Metals                                                   0
Overhead                                                                  6,067
Inventory (Increase) Decrease                                            (1,887)
Intercompany Profit Elimination                                               0
                                                                   ------------
   Cost of Goods Sold                                                    19,771
                                                                   ------------

Gross Profit                                                              9,296
Gross Profit % of Sales                                                   31.98%

R & D, Engineering                                                        1,179
General and Administrative Expense                                        2,182
Intangible Amortization                                                     189
Selling Expense                                                           1,687
Interest on Consigned Metal                                                   0
Corporate Charge                                                              0
                                                                   ------------
Total                                                                     5,237
                                                                   ------------

Operating Profit Before Incentives                                        4,059

Segment Incentives                                                            0
Stock Plan Expenses                                                           0
                                                                   ------------

Net Operating Profit                                                      4,059
NOP % of Sales                                                            13.96%

Corporate Charge Variance (Income) Expense                                    0
Interest (Income)                                                           (23)
Interest Expense                                                            164
Foreign Currency (Gain) Loss                                                (10)
Other (Income) Expense                                                     (104)
                                                                   ------------

Net Profit Before Tax                                                     4,032
Estimated Taxes                                                           1,329
                                                                   ------------
Effective Tax Rate                                                        32.96%

Net Income                                                         $      2,703
Net Income % of Sales                                                      9.30%


<PAGE>

Exhibit 99.1 - continued

                       Full Rise Electronics Company Ltd.
                       Statement of Cash Flows - Unaudited
                       Eight Months Ended August 31, 2004
                         (In Thousands of U.S. Dollars)

<TABLE>
<S>                                                                                   <C>
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:

Net Profit (Loss) after State Taxes                                                   $     2,703
Plus Depreciation of Fixed Assets                                                           1,212
Gain on disposal of property, plant, and equipment                                             --
Plus Amortization of Intangibles                                                              189
Plus Amortization of Restricted Stock Plan                                                     --
Plus employee stock bonus                                                                   1,154
Plus Other Amortization (specify)                                                              --
(Increase) Decrease in Total (Net) Accounts Receivable
       (Excluding Intercompany)                                                            (1,205)
(Increase) Decrease in Inventories                                                           (636)
(Increase) Decrease in Prepaid Income Taxes                                                    --
(Increase) Decrease in Prepaid & Other Current Assets
       (Excluding Marketable Securities)                                                    1,100
(Increase) Decrease in Other Non-Current Assets                                               884
(Increase) Decrease in Intercompany Receivables                                              (642)
Increase (Decrease) in Accounts Payable
       (Excluding Intercompany)                                                             1,926
Increase (Decrease) in Accrued Expenses other than Income Taxes                            (2,180)
Increase (Decrease) in Current Income Taxes Payable                                           464
Increase (Decrease) in Intercompany Payables                                                   --
Increase (Decrease) in Other Current Liabilities                                             (305)
Increase (Decrease) in Deferred Income Taxes Payable                                        1,368
Increase (Decrease) in Other Long-Term Liabilities                                             59
Other Cash Changes caused by Operating Activities:
       - (Gain) Loss on Sales of Property, Plant or Equipment to outside
          parties                                                                               3
       - (Gain) Loss on Sales of Property, Plant or Equipment to Intercompanies                --
                                                                                      -----------
Net Cash Change caused by Operating Activities                                              6,094
                                                                                      -----------

CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:

       Net (increase) decrease in Marketable Securities                                       682
       Capital Expenditures                                                                (3,791)
       Proceeds of sale of Property, Plant & Equipment to outside                              --
          parties                                                                             188
       Increase in Goodwill & Intangibles                                                  (1,217)
       Proceeds of sale of Property, Plant & Equipment to Intercompanies                       --
                                                                                      -----------
Net Cash Change caused by Investing Activities                                             (4,138)
                                                                                      -----------


CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:

Proceeds from Long-Term Debt
Principal Payments of Long-Term Debt                                                         (315)
Net Borrowings (Repayment) of Short-Term Debt                                               1,193
Dividends paid                                                                             (1,519)
Proceeds from capital contribution                                                          5,326
                                                                                      -----------
Net Cash Change caused by Financing Activities                                              4,685
                                                                                      -----------

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash                                                      (127)
                                                                                      -----------

Net Increase (decrease) in Cash & C/D's                                                     6,514
                                                                                      -----------

Cash & C/D's at Beginning of Year                                                           5,234
                                                                                      -----------

Cash & C/D's at End of Year                                                           $    11,748
                                                                                      ===========

</TABLE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
