-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 UZjGwfsHlKuWRqDVRGubSHXjsZxgaedEvy8NzCXLAA34bRIQlDOsmm3ViWbyPXab
 r4BdMY21JNbv6jXn65hfeQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950124-02-001099.txt : 20020415
<SEC-HEADER>0000950124-02-001099.hdr.sgml : 20020415
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950124-02-001099
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		22
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20011231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20020329

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SUN COMMUNITIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000912593
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS [6798]
		IRS NUMBER:				382730780
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MD
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	333-72461
		FILM NUMBER:		02592876

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		31700 MIDDLEBELT RD
		STREET 2:		STE 145
		CITY:			FARMINGTON HILLS
		STATE:			MI
		ZIP:			48334
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2489323100

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		31700 MIDDLEBELT RD
		STREET 2:		STE 145
		CITY:			FARMINGTON HILLS
		STATE:			MI
		ZIP:			48334
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>k68295e10-k.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED 12/31/01
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                    FORM 10-K
                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

(Mark One)

[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001

                                       OR

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                           Commission File No. 1-12616

                              SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

STATE OF MARYLAND                                                     38-2730780
State of Incorporation                                  I.R.S. Employer I.D. No.

                              31700 MIDDLEBELT ROAD
                                    SUITE 145
                        FARMINGTON HILLS, MICHIGAN 48334
                                 (248) 932-3100
          (Address of principal executive offices and telephone number)

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                     COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.01 PER SHARE

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      NONE

      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

                                       [ ]

      Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                                 Yes  X   No
                                     ---     ---
      As of March 4, 2002, the aggregate market value of the Registrant's voting
stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $627,003,494.
As of March 4, 2002, there were 17,579,451 shares of the Registrant's common
stock issued and outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

      Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed for
its 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this Report.
<PAGE>
      As used in this report, "Company", "Us", "We", "Our" and similar terms
means Sun Communities, Inc., a Maryland corporation, and one or more of its
subsidiaries (including the Operating Partnership (as defined below)).

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

      We are a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust,
or REIT. We own, operate and finance manufactured housing communities
concentrated in the midwestern and southeastern United States. We are a fully
integrated real estate company which, together with our affiliates and
predecessors, have been in the business of acquiring, operating and expanding
manufactured housing communities since 1975. As of December 31, 2001, we owned
and operated or financed a portfolio of 116 developed properties located in 15
states (the "Properties"), including 105 manufactured housing communities, 5
recreational vehicle communities, and 6 properties containing both manufactured
housing and recreational vehicle sites. As of December 31, 2001, the Properties
contained an aggregate of 40,544 developed sites comprised of 35,390 developed
manufactured home sites and 5,154 recreational vehicle sites and an additional
4,385 manufactured home sites suitable for development. In order to enhance
property performance and cash flow, the Company, through Sun SHS, Inc., a
Michigan corporation ("SHS"), actively markets and sells new and used
manufactured homes for placement in the Properties.

      Our executive and principal property management office is located at 31700
Middlebelt Road, Suite 145, Farmington Hills, Michigan 48334 and our telephone
number is (248) 932-3100. We have regional property management offices located
in Austin, Texas, Dayton, Ohio, Grand Rapids, Michigan, Elkhart, Indiana and
Orlando, Florida, and we employed an aggregate of 546 people as of December 31,
2001.

STRUCTURE OF THE COMPANY

      Structured as an umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT, Sun Communities
Operating Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership (the "Operating
Partnership") is the entity through which we conduct substantially all of our
operations, and which owns, either directly or indirectly through subsidiaries,
all of our assets (the subsidiaries, collectively with the Operating
Partnership, the "Subsidiaries"). This UPREIT structure enables us to comply
with certain complex requirements under the Federal tax rules and regulations
applicable to REITs, and to acquire manufactured housing communities in
transactions that defer some or all of the sellers' tax consequences. We are the
sole general partner of, and, as of December 31, 2001, held approximately 87% of
the interests (not including preferred limited partnership interests) in, the
Operating Partnership. The Subsidiaries also include SHS, which provides
manufactured home sales and other services to current and prospective tenants of
the Properties. Along with several other subsidiaries, SHS wholly owns Sun Water
Oak Golf, Inc., which was organized to own and operate the golf course,
restaurant and related facilities located on the Water Oak Property that was
acquired in November 1994, and SUI TRS, Inc., which was organized to hold our
investment in Origen (defined below). See "Factors that May Affect Future
Results -- Relationship with Origen."


                                       2
<PAGE>
THE MANUFACTURED HOUSING COMMUNITY INDUSTRY

      A manufactured housing community is a residential subdivision designed and
improved with sites for the placement of manufactured homes and related
improvements and amenities. Manufactured homes are detached, single-family homes
which are produced off-site by manufacturers and installed on sites within the
community. Manufactured homes are available in a wide array of designs,
providing owners with a level of customization generally unavailable in other
forms of multifamily housing.

      Modern manufactured housing communities, such as the Properties, contain
improvements similar to other garden-style residential developments, including
centralized entrances, paved streets, curbs and gutters, and parkways. In
addition, these communities also often provide a number of amenities, such as a
clubhouse, a swimming pool, shuffleboard courts, tennis courts, laundry
facilities and cable television service.

      The owner of each home on our Properties leases the site on which the home
is located. We own the underlying land, utility connections, streets, lighting,
driveways, common area amenities and other capital improvements and are
responsible for enforcement of community guidelines and maintenance. Some of the
Properties provide water and sewer service through public or private utilities,
while others provide these services to residents from on-site facilities. Each
owner within our Properties is responsible for the maintenance of his or her
home and leased site. As a result, capital expenditure needs tend to be less
significant, relative to multi-family rental apartment complexes.

PROPERTY MANAGEMENT

      Our property management strategy emphasizes intensive, hands-on management
by dedicated, on-site district and community managers. We believe that this
on-site focus enables us to continually monitor and address tenant concerns, the
performance of competitive properties and local market conditions. Of the 546
Company employees, 487 are located on-site as property managers, support staff,
or maintenance personnel.

      Our community managers are overseen by Brian W. Fannon, Chief Operating
Officer, who has 32 years of property management experience, a Senior-Vice
President-Operations, three Vice Presidents of Operations and ten Regional
Property Managers. In addition, the Regional Property Managers are responsible
for semi-annual market surveys of competitive communities, interaction with
local manufactured home dealers and regular property inspections.

      Each district or community manager performs regular inspections in order
to continually monitor the Property's physical condition and provides managers
with the opportunity to understand and effectively address tenant concerns. In
addition to a district or community manager, each district or property has an
on-site maintenance personnel and management support staff. We hold periodic
training sessions for all property management personnel to ensure that
management policies are implemented effectively and professionally.


                                       3
<PAGE>
HOME SALES

      SHS offers manufactured home sales services to tenants and prospective
tenants of our Properties. Since tenants often purchase a home already on-site
within a community, such services enhance occupancy and property performance.
Additionally, because many of the homes in the Properties are sold through SHS,
better control of home quality in our communities can be maintained than if
sales services were conducted solely through third-party brokers.

REGULATIONS AND INSURANCE

      General. Manufactured housing community properties are subject to various
laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to recreational
facilities such as swimming pools, clubhouses and other common areas. We believe
that each Property has the necessary operating permits and approvals.

      Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA"). The Properties and any newly
acquired manufactured housing communities must comply with the ADA. The ADA has
separate compliance requirements for "public accommodations" and "commercial
facilities," but generally requires that public facilities such as clubhouses,
pools and recreation areas be made accessible to people with disabilities.
Compliance with ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and
other capital improvements at our Properties. Noncompliance could result in
imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. We do not
believe the ADA will have a material adverse impact on our results of
operations. If required property improvements involve a greater expenditure than
we currently anticipate, or if the improvements must be made on a more
accelerated basis than we anticipate, our ability to make expected distributions
could be adversely affected. We believe that our competitors face similar costs
to comply with the requirements of the ADA.

      Insurance. Our management believes that the Properties are covered by
adequate fire, flood, property and business interruption insurance provided by
reputable companies with commercially reasonable deductibles and limits. We
maintain a blanket policy that covers all of our Properties. We have obtained
title insurance insuring fee title to the Properties in an aggregate amount
which we believe to be adequate.

FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

      Our prospects are subject to certain uncertainties and risks. Our future
results could differ materially from current results, and our actual results
could differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements as a
result of certain risk factors. These risk factors include, but are not limited
to, those set forth below, other one-time events, and important factors
disclosed previously and from time to time in other Company filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. This report contains certain forward-looking
statements.

      Adverse Consequences of Being a Borrower.

            As of December 31, 2001, we had outstanding $91,200,000 of
      indebtedness that is collateralized by mortgage liens on eighteen of the
      Properties (the "Mortgage Debt"). In addition, as of December 31, 2001, we
      had entered into three capitalized lease obligations for an aggregate of
      $26,000,000. Each capitalized lease obligation involves a lease for a


                                       4
<PAGE>
      manufactured housing community providing that we will lease the community
      for a certain number of years and then have the option to purchase the
      community at or prior to the end of the lease term. In each case, if we
      fail to exercise our purchase right, the landlord has the right to require
      us to buy the property at the same price for which we had the purchase
      option. If we fail to meet our obligations under the Mortgage Debt, the
      lender would be entitled to foreclose on all or some of the Properties
      securing such debt. If we fail to satisfy our lease obligations or an
      obligation to purchase the property, the landlord/seller would be entitled
      to evict us from the property. In each event, this could have a material
      adverse effect on us and our ability to make expected distributions, and
      could threaten our continued viability.

            We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing,
including the following risks:

- -     our cash flow may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal
      and interest;

- -     existing indebtedness may not be able to be refinanced;

- -     the terms of such refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of such
      existing indebtedness; and

- -     necessary capital expenditures for such purposes as renovations and other
      improvements may not be able to be financed on favorable terms or at all.

If any of the above risks occurred, our ability to make expected distributions
could be adversely impacted.

      Real Estate Investment Considerations.

            Failure to Generate Sufficient Revenue. The market and economic
      conditions in our current markets generally, and specifically in
      metropolitan areas of our current markets, may significantly affect
      manufactured home occupancy or rental rates. Occupancy and rental rates,
      in turn, may significantly affect our revenues, and if our communities do
      not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including
      debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to pay
      distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected. The
      following factors, among others, may adversely affect the revenues
      generated by our communities:

- -     the national and local economic climate which may be adversely impacted
      by, among other factors, plant closings and industry slowdowns;

- -     local real estate market conditions such as the oversupply of manufactured
      housing sites or a reduction in demand for manufactured housing sites in
      an area;

- -     the rental market which may limit the extent to which rents may be
      increased to meet increased expenses without decreasing occupancy rates;

- -     the perceptions by prospective tenants of the safety, convenience and
      attractiveness of the Properties and the neighborhoods where they are
      located;

- -     zoning or other regulatory restrictions;

- -     competition from other available manufactured housing sites and
      alternative forms of housing (such as apartment buildings and site-built
      single-family homes);

- -     our ability to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance;

- -     increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, real estate taxes
      and


                                       5
<PAGE>
      utilities; or

- -     the enactment of rent control laws. See "Factors that May Affect Future
      Results

- -     Real Estate Investment Considerations -- Rent Control Legislation."

            Our income would also be adversely affected if tenants were unable
      to pay rent or if sites were unable to be rented on favorable terms. If we
      were unable to promptly relet or renew the leases for a significant number
      of the sites, or if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting were
      significantly lower than expected rates, then our funds from operations
      and ability to make expected distributions to stockholders could be
      adversely affected. In addition, certain expenditures associated with each
      equity investment (such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs)
      generally are not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income
      from the investment. Furthermore, real estate investments are relatively
      illiquid and, therefore, will tend to limit our ability to vary our
      portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.

            Competition. All of the Properties are located in developed areas
      that include other manufactured housing community properties. The number
      of competitive manufactured housing community properties in a particular
      area could have a material effect on our ability to lease sites and on
      rents charged at the Properties or at any newly acquired properties. We
      may be competing with others with greater resources and whose officers and
      directors have more experience than our officers and directors. In
      addition, other forms of multi-family residential properties, such as
      private and federally funded or assisted multi-family housing projects and
      single-family housing, provide housing alternatives to potential tenants
      of manufactured housing communities.

            Changes in Laws. Costs resulting from changes in real estate tax
      laws generally may be passed through to tenants and will not affect us.
      Increases in income, service or other taxes, however, generally are not
      passed through to tenants under leases and may adversely affect our funds
      from operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.
      Similarly, changes in laws increasing the potential liability for
      environmental conditions existing on properties or increasing the
      restrictions on discharges or other conditions may result in significant
      unanticipated expenditures, which would adversely affect our funds from
      operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders.

            Investments in Real Estate, Installment and Other Loans. As of
      December 31, 2001, we had an investment of approximately $77.4 million in
      real estate loans to several entities and Properties, some of which are
      secured by a first lien on the underlying property, and others which are
      unsecured loans subordinate to the primary lender. Also, as of December
      31, 2001, we had outstanding approximately $13.5 million in installment
      loans to owners of manufactured homes. These installment loans are
      collateralized by the manufactured homes. We may invest in additional
      mortgages and installment loans in the future. Also, as of December 31,
      2001, we had an equity investment of approximately $15.0 million in Origen
      and advances of $11.2 million to Origen under a line of credit; see
      "Factors that May Affect Future Results -- Relationship with Origen"
      below. By virtue of our investment in the mortgages and the loans, we are
      subject to the following risks of such investment:

            -     the borrowers may not be able to make debt service payments or
                  pay principal when due;

            -     the value of property securing the mortgages and loans may be
                  less than the amounts owed; and

            -     interest rates payable on the mortgages and loans may be lower
                  than our cost of funds.


                                       6
<PAGE>
If any of the above occurred, funds from operations and our ability to make
expected distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected.

            Development of New Communities. We are engaged in the construction
      and development of new communities, and intend to continue in the
      development and construction business in the future. Our development and
      construction business may be exposed to the following risks which are in
      addition to those risks associated with the ownership and operation of
      established manufactured housing communities.

            -     We may not be able to obtain financing with favorable terms
                  for community development which may make us unable to proceed
                  with the development;

            -     We may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining,
                  necessary zoning, building and other governmental permits and
                  authorizations, which could result in increased costs and
                  delays, and even require us to abandon development of the
                  community entirely if we are unable to obtain such permits or
                  authorizations;

            -     We may abandon development opportunities that we have already
                  begun to explore and as a result we may not recover expenses
                  already incurred in connection exploring such development
                  opportunities;

            -     We may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a
                  community on schedule resulting in increased debt service
                  expense and construction costs;

            -     We may incur construction and development costs for a
                  community which exceed our original estimates due to increased
                  materials, labor or other costs, which could make completion
                  of the community uneconomical and we may not be able to
                  increase rents to compensate for the increase in development
                  costs which may impact our profitability;

            -     We may be unable to secure long-term financing on completion
                  of development resulting in increased debt service and lower
                  profitability; and

            -     Occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed community may
                  fluctuate depending on several factors, including market and
                  economic conditions, which may result in the community not
                  being profitable.

      If any of the above occurred, our ability to make expected distributions
      to stockholders could be adversely affected.

            Results of Acquisitions. We acquire and intend to continue to
      acquire manufactured housing communities on a select basis. The success
      and profitability of our acquisition activities are subject to the risks
      of the acquired community failing to perform as expected based on our
      analyses of our investment in the community, and our underestimation of
      the costs of repositioning, redeveloping or expanding the acquired
      community.

            Geographic Concentration. Significant amounts of rental income for
      the year ended December 31, 2001 were derived from Properties located in
      Michigan and Florida. Of our 116 Properties 43, or 37%, are located in
      Michigan, and 21, or 18%, are located in Florida. As a result of the
      geographic concentration of our Properties in these states, we are exposed
      to the risks of downturns in the local economy or other local real estate
      market conditions which could adversely affect occupancy rates, rental
      rates and property


                                       7
<PAGE>
      values of Properties in these markets. A negative impact on our occupancy
      rates, rental rates or property values would adversely affect the income
      we receive from the Properties and may result in our being unable to make
      expected distributions to stockholders.

            Rent Control Legislation. State and local rent control laws in
      certain jurisdictions may limit our ability to increase rents and to
      recover increases in operating expenses and the costs of capital
      improvements. Enactment of such laws has been considered from time to time
      in other jurisdictions. Certain Properties are located, and the Company
      may purchase additional properties, in markets that are either subject to
      rent control or in which rent-limiting legislation exists or may be
      enacted.

            Environmental Matters. Under various Federal, state and local laws,
      ordinances and regulations, an owner of real estate is liable for the
      costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances
      on or in such property. Such laws often impose such liability without
      regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence
      of such hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or
      the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect
      the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such
      property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment
      of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of
      removal or remediation of such substances at a disposal or treatment
      facility, whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such
      person. Certain environmental laws impose liability for release of
      asbestos-containing materials ("ACMs") into the air and third parties may
      seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal
      injury associated with ACMs. In connection with the ownership (direct or
      indirect), operation, management, and development of real properties, we
      may be considered an owner or operator of such properties or as having
      arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances
      and, therefore, are potentially liable for removal or remediation costs,
      as well as certain other related costs, including governmental fines and
      injuries to persons and property.

            All of the Properties have been subject to a Phase I or similar
      environmental audit (which involves general inspections without soil
      sampling or ground water analysis) completed by independent environmental
      consultants. These environmental audits have not revealed any significant
      environmental liability that would have a material adverse effect on our
      business. No assurances can be given that existing environmental studies
      of the Properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior
      owner of a Property did not create any material environmental condition
      not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not
      otherwise exist as to any one or more Properties.

            Uninsured Loss. We maintain comprehensive liability, fire, flood
      (where appropriate), extended coverage, and rental loss insurance on the
      Properties with policy specifications, limits, and deductibles which are
      customarily carried for similar properties. Certain types of losses,
      however, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, such as
      losses due to earthquakes, riots, or acts of war. In the event an
      uninsured loss occurs, we could lose both our investment in and
      anticipated profits and cash flow from the affected property which would
      adversely affect the Company's ability to make distributions to our
      stockholders. In the year 2000, our former insurance carrier filed
      bankruptcy, and as a result some or all of the outstanding and incurred,
      but not yet reported, claims against our policy may not be covered which
      would require the Company to cover the loss directly. The Company expects
      the maximum exposure not to exceed $250,000 for which no reserve has been
      provided in the financial statements.


                                       8
<PAGE>

      Conditions Affecting Manufactured Housing Sales

            SHS is in the manufactured home sales market offering manufactured
      home sales services to tenants and prospective tenants of our communities.
      The market for the sale of manufactured homes may be adversely affected by
      the following factors:

            -     Downturns in economic conditions which adversely impact the
                  housing market;

            -     An oversupply of, or a reduced demand for, manufactured homes;

            -     The difficulty facing potential purchasers in obtaining
                  affordable financing as a result of heightened lending
                  criteria; and

            -     An increase in the rate of manufactured home repossessions
                  which provide aggressively priced competition to new
                  manufactured home sales.

      Any of the above listed factors could adversely impact SHS' rate of
      manufactured home sales, which would result in a decrease in SHS'
      profitability, and which may also affect the Company's profitability.

      Relationship with Origen.

            In the past, we have provided financing to Bingham Financial
      Services Corporation ("Bingham"), a financial services company that
      provides and services loans used to finance manufactured homes. In
      December 2001, we made a $15.0 million equity investment in a newly formed
      company, Origen Financial, L.L.C., that will merge with Origen Financial,
      Inc., a subsidiary of Bingham, as part of a recapitalization of Bingham.
      As a result of this equity investment, we will own approximately a 30%
      interest in the surviving company ("Origen"), which company will hold all
      of the operating assets of Bingham and its subsidiaries. As part of the
      recapitalization, the funds contributed to capitalize Origen were used to
      repay approximately $38.9 million of Bingham's outstanding indebtedness to
      the Company.

            Certain of our officers and directors have an interest in Bingham
      and/or Origen. Gary A. Shiffman, our Chairman of the Board, Chief
      Executive Officer and President, is a director and officer of Bingham and
      a manager of Origen, and Arthur A. Weiss, one of our directors, is a
      director of Bingham. Bingham owns approximately a 20% interest in Origen
      and the Company (together with the other investors in Origen) has the
      right to purchase its pro-rata share of Bingham's interest in Origen at
      fair value at any time between the third and fifth anniversaries of the
      closing date of the Company's investment in Origen. In addition,
      concurrently with our investment in Origen, Mr. Shiffman and members of
      his family purchased approximately a 10% equity interest in Origen for
      approximately $5.0 million.

                                       9
<PAGE>
      As a result of the ownership and management of Origen, Mr. Shiffman and
      Mr. Weiss may have a conflict of interest with respect to any transaction
      between the Company and Origen. See "Factors that May Affect Future
      Results - Conflicts of Interest."

            Currently, we (together with another unaffiliated lender) provide
      financing to Origen. This financing consists of a $21.25 million standby
      line of credit, bearing interest at a per annum rate equal to 700 basis
      points over LIBOR, with a minimum interest rate of 11% and a maximum
      interest rate of 15%. This line of credit is collateralized by a security
      interest in Origen's assets, which is subordinate in all respects to all
      institutional indebtedness of Origen, and a guaranty and pledge of assets
      by Bingham.

            Under the terms of a participation agreement we entered into with
      the other lender, we are obligated to loan up to $12.5 million to Origen
      under the line of credit, the other lender is required to loan up to $8.75
      million to Origen under the line of credit and we jointly administer the
      line of credit. Under the participation agreement, each lender
      participates pari passu in all proceeds from the line of credit, provided
      that, if additional funds in excess of $17.5 million are loaned to Origen
      and both lenders do not participate therein, such additional amounts
      funded will be subordinate in all respects to all indebtedness of Origen
      in which both lenders have participated.

            The line of credit subjects the Company to the risks of being a
      lender. These risks include the risks relating to borrower delinquency and
      default and the adequacy of the collateral for such loans. Because the
      line of credit is subordinated to certain senior debt of Origen, in the
      event Origen was unable to meet its obligations under the senior debt
      facility, our right to receive amounts owed to us under the line of credit
      would be suspended pending payment of the amounts owing under the senior
      debt facility. In addition, because the security interest securing
      Origen's obligations under the line of credit is subordinate to the
      security interest of certain senior debt of Origen, in the event of a
      bankruptcy of Origen, our right to access Origen 's assets to satisfy the
      amounts outstanding under the line of credit would be subject to the
      senior lender's prior rights to the same collateral. Moreover, if we
      choose to advance additional funds to Origen beyond the shared $17.5
      million line of credit and the other participation lender does not
      participate in such additional advances, these secondary advances will be
      subordinate to any senior debt of Origen and subordinate to all
      indebtedness of Origen in which both lenders have participated.

      Conflicts of Interest.

            Ownership of SHS. Gary A. Shiffman, our President, Chief Executive
      Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Estate of Milton M.
      Shiffman (former Chairman of the Board of the Company), are the owners of
      all of the outstanding common stock of SHS, and as such are entitled to 5%
      of the cash flow from the operating activities of SHS (the Operating
      Partnership is the owner of 100% of the non-voting preferred stock which
      entitles it to 95% of such cash flow). Arthur A. Weiss, one of our
      directors, is also a personal representative of the Estate.

           For certain tax reasons, we made our equity investment in Origen
      through SUI TRS, Inc., a taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS"), which is wholly
      owned by SHS. The Operating Partnership contributed $15.0 million to SHS
      in connection with the Origen investment and, as the holder of all of the
      non-voting preferred stock of SHS, we are entitled to 95% of the cash flow
      from the operating activities of SHS, including the operating activities
      of the TRS, and effectively an approximate 30% interest in Origen. As part
      of the $5.0 million investment in Origen by Mr. Shiffman and members of
      his family, he and the Estate contributed approximately $790,000 to SHS as
      part of the investment in Origen by TRS, and, as the holders of all of the
      voting common stock of SHS, they are entitled to 5% of the cash flow from
      the operating activities of SHS, including the operating activities of the
      TRS, and effectively an approximate 1.6% indirect interest in Origen. The
      balance of the Shiffman family's $5.0 million investment in Origen was
      made through a separate family owned entity which holds 8.4% of the
      Shiffman family's aggregate 10% interest. See "Factors that May Affect
      Future Results-Relationship with Origen." Thus, in all transactions
      involving SHS, Mr. Shiffman and Mr. Weiss will have a conflict of interest
      with respect


                                       10
<PAGE>
      to their respective obligations as an officer and/or director of the
      Company and Mr. Shiffman's right and the Estate's right to receive a
      portion of the cash flow from the operating activities of SHS. The
      following are the current transactions and agreements involving SHS which
      present a conflict of interest for Mr. Shiffman:

            -     The agreement between SHS and the Operating Partnership for
                  sales, brokerage, and leasing services;

            -     The investment in Origen by SUI TRS, Inc., a wholly owned
                  subsidiary of SHS; and

            -     The ownership and operation of SHS's other subsidiaries,
                  including, Sun Water Oak Golf, Inc.

      The failure to negotiate these and other transactions or agreements
      involving SHS on an arm's length basis, or to enforce the material terms
      of any agreement or arrangement between SHS and the Company or any other
      Subsidiary could have an adverse effect on the Company.

            Tax Consequences Upon Sale of Properties. Gary A. Shiffman holds
      limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership ("Common OP
      Units") which were received in connection with the contribution of 24
      Properties the Company acquired from partnerships previously affiliated
      with him (the "Sun Partnerships"). Prior to any redemption of Common OP
      Units for our common stock (the "Common Stock"), Mr. Shiffman will have
      tax consequences different from those of the Company and its public
      stockholders on the sale of any of the Sun Partnerships. Therefore, Mr.
      Shiffman and the Company, as partners in the Operating Partnership, may
      have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of
      any sale of those Properties.

      Adverse Consequences of Failure to Qualify as a REIT.

            Taxation as a Corporation. We expect to qualify and have made an
      election to be taxed as a REIT under the Code, commencing with the
      calendar year beginning January 1, 1994. Although we believe that we are
      organized and will operate in such a manner, no assurance can be given
      that we are organized or will be able to operate in a manner so as to
      qualify or remain so qualified. Qualification as a REIT involves the
      satisfaction of numerous requirements (some on an annual and quarterly
      basis) established under highly technical and complex Code provisions for
      which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations,
      and involves the determination of various factual matters and
      circumstances not entirely within our control.

            If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we
      would be subject to Federal income tax (including any applicable
      alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at corporate rates.
      Moreover, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we
      also would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable
      years following the year during which qualification is lost. This
      treatment would reduce our net earnings available for investment or
      distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability to us
      for the years involved. In addition, distributions to stockholders would
      no longer be required to be made.

            Other Tax Liabilities. Even though we qualify as a REIT, we are
      subject to certain Federal, state and local taxes on our income and
      property. In addition, our sales


                                       11
<PAGE>
      operations, which are conducted through SHS, generally will be subject to
      Federal income tax at regular corporate rates.

            REIT Modernization Act. In December 1999, the REIT Modernization Act
      ("RMA") was signed into law. The RMA contains several provisions that will
      allow REITs to create a TRS that can provide services to residents and
      others without disqualifying the rents that a REIT receives from its
      residents. Furthermore, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2000
      RMA changes the minimum distribution requirement from 95 percent to 90
      percent of the REIT's taxable income, which will allow REITs to reinvest a
      larger percentage of capital into their real estate assets or repay their
      existing debt.

      Adverse Effect of Distribution Requirements

            We may be required from time to time, under certain circumstances,
      to accrue as income for tax purposes interest and rent earned, but not yet
      received. In such event, we could have taxable income without sufficient
      cash to enable us to meet the distribution requirements of a REIT.
      Accordingly, we could be required to borrow funds or liquidate investments
      on adverse terms in order to meet such distribution requirements.

      Ownership Limit and Limits on Changes in Control.

            9.8% Ownership Limit. In order to qualify and maintain our
      qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% of the outstanding shares of
      our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer
      individuals. Thus, ownership of more than 9.8% of our outstanding shares
      of common stock by any single stockholder has been restricted, with
      certain exceptions, for the purpose of maintaining our qualification as a
      REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
      Such restrictions in our charter do not apply to Gary Shiffman, the Estate
      of Milton M. Shiffman and Robert B. Bayer, a former director and officer
      of the Company.

            The 9.8% ownership limit, as well as our ability to issue additional
      shares of Common Stock or shares of other stock (which may have rights and
      preferences over the Common Stock), may discourage a change of control of
      the Company and may also: (1) deter tender offers for the Common Stock,
      which offers may be advantageous to stockholders; and (2) limit the
      opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their Common Stock
      that might otherwise exist if an investor were attempting to assemble a
      block of Common Stock in excess of 9.8% of the outstanding shares of the
      Company or otherwise effect a change of control of the Company.

            Staggered Board. Our Board of Directors has been divided into three
      classes of directors. The term of one class will expire each year.
      Directors for each class will be chosen for a three-year term upon the
      expiration of such class's term, and the directors in the other two
      classes will continue in office. The staggered terms for directors may
      affect the stockholders' ability to change control of the Company even if
      a change in control were in the stockholders' interest.

            Preferred Stock. Our charter authorizes the Board of Directors to
      issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to establish the
      preferences and rights (including the right to vote and the right to
      convert into shares of Common Stock) of any shares issued. The power to
      issue preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a
      change in control of the Company even if a change in control were in the
      stockholders' interest.


                                       12
<PAGE>
            Rights Plan. We adopted a stockholders' rights plan in 1998 that
      provides our stockholders (other than a stockholder attempting to acquire
      a 15% or greater interest in the Company) with the right to purchase stock
      in the Company at a discount in the event any person attempts to acquire a
      15% or greater interest in the Company. Because this plan could make it
      more expensive for a person to acquire a controlling interest in the
      Company, it could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in
      control of the Company even if a change in control were in the
      stockholders' interest.

      Changes in Investment and Financing Policies Without Stockholder Approval.

            Our investment and financing policies, and our policies with respect
      to certain other activities, including our growth, debt, capitalization,
      distributions, REIT status, and operating policies, are determined by our
      Board of Directors. Although the Board of Directors has no present
      intention to do so, these policies may be amended or revised from time to
      time at the discretion of the Board of Directors without notice to or a
      vote of our stockholders. Accordingly, stockholders may not have control
      over changes in our policies and changes in our policies may not fully
      serve the interests of all stockholders.

      Dependence on Key Personnel.

            We are dependent on the efforts of our executive officers,
      particularly Gary A. Shiffman, Jeffrey P. Jorissen and Brian W. Fannon
      (together, the "Senior Officers"). While we believe that we could find
      replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could
      have a temporary adverse effect on Company operations. We do not currently
      maintain or contemplate obtaining any "key-man" life insurance on the
      Senior Officers.

            In addition, upon the death or disability of Mr. Shiffman, we could
      lose the right to appoint a Manager of Origen or otherwise vote our
      interests in Origen, which could adversely affect our investment in
      Origen. See "Factors that May Affect Future Results -- Relationship with
      Origen" above.

      Adverse Consequences of Failure to Qualify as a Partnership

            We believe that the Operating Partnership and other various
      Subsidiary partnerships have each been organized as partnerships and will
      qualify for treatment as such under the Code. If the Operating Partnership
      and such other partnerships fail to qualify for such treatment under the
      Code, we would cease to qualify as a REIT, and the Operating Partnership
      and such other partnerships would be subject to Federal income tax
      (including any alternative minimum tax) on their income at corporate
      rates.

      Adverse Effect on Price of Shares Available for Future Sale

            Sales of a substantial number of shares of Common Stock, or the
      perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing
      market prices for shares. As of December 31, 2001, up to 3,944,435 shares
      of Common Stock may be issued in the future to the limited partners of the
      Operating Partnership (both Common and Preferred OP Units). The limited
      partners may sell such shares pursuant to registration rights or an
      available exemption from registration. Also, Water Oak, Ltd., a former
      owner of one of the Properties, will be issued Common OP Units with a
      value of approximately $1,000,000 annually through 2007. In 2008 and 2009,
      Water Oak, Ltd. will be issued


                                       13
<PAGE>
      Common OP Units with a value of approximately $1,200,000. In addition, as
      of December 31, 2001, 2,017,298 shares have been reserved for issuance
      pursuant to our 1993 Employee Stock Option Plan and 1993 Non-Employee
      Director Stock Option Plan (the "Plans"). Under the Plans options for
      615,051 shares have been exercised, and 289,922 shares of restricted stock
      have been issued as of December 31, 2001. Mr. Shiffman's employment
      agreement provides for incentive compensation payable in shares of Common
      Stock. We also issued 167,918 shares of Common Stock on January 31, 2002
      pursuant to our Long Term Incentive Plan for the benefit of all of our
      salaried employees other than our officers. No prediction can be made
      regarding the effect that future sales of shares of Common Stock will have
      on the market price of shares.

      Adverse Effect of Market Interest Rates on the Price of Common Stock

            One of the factors that may influence the price of the Common Stock
      in the public market will be the annual distributions to stockholders
      relative to the prevailing market price of the Common Stock. An increase
      in market interest rates may tend to make the Common Stock less attractive
      relative to other investments, which could adversely affect the market
      price of our Common Stock.

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

      General. As of December 31, 2001, the Properties consisted of 104
manufactured housing communities, 5 recreational vehicle communities, and 7
properties containing both manufactured housing and recreational vehicle sites
located in fifteen states concentrated in the midwestern and southeastern United
States. As of December 31, 2001, the Properties contained 40,544 developed sites
comprised of 35,340 developed manufactured home sites and 5,154 recreational
vehicle sites and an additional 4,385 manufactured home sites suitable for
development. Most of the Properties include amenities oriented towards family
and retirement living. Of the 116 Properties, 61 have more than 300 developed
manufactured home sites, with the largest having 1,554 developed manufactured
home sites.

      The Properties had an aggregate occupancy rate of 93% as of December 31,
2001, excluding recreational vehicle sites. Since January 1, 2001, the
Properties have averaged an aggregate annual turnover of homes (where the home
is moved out of the community) of approximately 3.2% and an average annual
turnover of residents (where the home is sold and remains within the community,
typically without interruption of rental income) of approximately 7.4%.

      We believe that our Properties' high amenity levels contribute to low
turnover and generally high occupancy rates. All of the Properties provide
residents with attractive amenities with most offering a clubhouse, a swimming
pool, laundry facilities and cable television service. Many Properties offer
additional amenities such as sauna/whirlpool spas, tennis, shuffleboard and
basketball courts and/or exercise rooms.

      We have tried to concentrate our communities within certain geographic
areas in order to achieve economies of scale in management and operation. The
Properties are principally concentrated in the midwestern and southeastern
United States. We believe that geographic diversification will help insulate the
portfolio from regional economic influences, we are also interested in expanding
its operations in the western United States.


                                       14
<PAGE>
      The following table sets forth certain information relating to the
Properties owned or financed as of December 31, 2001:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         DEVELOPED       OCCUPANCY     OCCUPANCY      OCCUPANCY
                                        SITES AS OF        AS OF         AS OF          AS OF
      PROPERTY AND LOCATION               12/31/01      12/31/99(1)    12/31/00(1)    12/31/01(1)
      ---------------------               --------      -----------    -----------    -----------
<S>                                     <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>
MIDWEST
MICHIGAN
Academy/West Pointe                         441            (2)            99%            98%
  Canton, MI
Allendale Meadows Mobile Village            352            95%            98%            96%
  Allendale, MI
Alpine Meadows Mobile Village               403            99%            99%            96%
  Grand Rapids, MI
Bedford Hills Mobile Village                339            99%            98%            98%
  Battle Creek, MI
Brentwood Mobile Village                    195            99%            99%            99%
  Kentwood, MI
Byron Center Mobile Village                 143            99%            99%            98%
  Byron Center, MI
Candlewick Court Manufactured               211            96%            95%            97%
Housing Community
  Owosso, MI
College Park Estates Manufactured           230            98%            100%           95%
Housing Community
  Canton, MI
Continental Estates Manufactured            385            88%            84%            84%
Housing Community
  Davison, MI
Continental North Manufactured              474            84%            88%            89%
Housing Community
  Davison, MI
Country Acres Mobile Village                182            99%            96%            96%
  Cadillac, MI
Country Meadows Mobile Village              577            100%           100%           99%
  Flat Rock, MI
Countryside Village Manufactured            359            96%            96%            98%
Housing Community
  Perry, MI
Creekwood Meadows Mobile Home Park          336            94%            96%            88%
  Burton, MI
Cutler Estates Mobile Village               256            99%            98%            97%
  Grand Rapids, MI
Davison East Manufactured Housing           190            95%            89%            80%
Community
  Davison, MI
Fisherman's Cove Manufactured               162            97%            99%            95%
Housing Community
  Flint, MI
Grand Mobile Estates                        224            98%            99%            93%
  Grand Rapids, MI
Hamlin Manufactured Housing                 147            100%           100%           99%
Community
  Webberville, MI
Kensington Meadows Mobile Home              290            95%            97%            98%
  Park Lansing, MI
Kings Court Mobile Village                  639            100%           98%            100%
  Traverse City, MI
Knollwood Estates                           161            (3)            (3)            97%
  Allendale, MI
Lafayette Place                             254            99%            98%            97%
  Metro Detroit, MI
</TABLE>


                                       15
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         DEVELOPED       OCCUPANCY     OCCUPANCY      OCCUPANCY
                                        SITES AS OF        AS OF         AS OF          AS OF
      PROPERTY AND LOCATION               12/31/01      12/31/99(1)    12/31/00(1)    12/31/01(1)
      ---------------------               --------      -----------    -----------    -----------
<S>                                     <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>
Lincoln Estates Mobile Home Park            191            98%            99%             96%
  Holland, MI
Maple Grove Estates Manufactured            46             100%           100%           100%
Housing Community
  Dorr, MI
Meadow Lake Estates Manufactured            425            99%            100%           100%
Housing Community
  White Lake, MI
Meadowbrook Estates Manufactured            453            100%           99%            98%
Housing Community
  Monroe, MI
Meadowstream Village Manufactured           159            97%            98%            97%
Housing Community
  Sodus, MI
Parkwood Manufactured Housing               249            94%            93%            90%
  Community Grand Blanc, MI
Presidential Estates Mobile                 364            98%            98%            99%
  Village Hudsonville, MI
Richmond Place (6)                          117            99%            99%            97%
  Metro Detroit, MI
River Haven Village                         721            (3)            (3)            78%
  Grand Haven, MI
Scio Farms Estates                          913            100%           100%           99%
  Ann Arbor, MI
Sherman Oaks Manufactured Housing           366            98%            99%            97%
  Community Jackson, MI
St. Clair Place (6)                         100            99%            99%            100%
  Metro Detroit, MI
Sunset Ridge  (4)                           144            (3)            (3)            13%(4)
  Portland Township, MI
Timberline Estates Manufactured             296            97%            100%           96%
Housing Community
  Grand Rapids, MI
Town & Country Mobile Village               192            99%            99%            99%
  Traverse City, MI
Village Trails                              100            64%(4)          77%            77%
  Howard City,  MI
White Lake Mobile Home Village              315            100%           100%          85%(4)
  White Lake, MI
White Oak Estates                           480            92%            85%            88%
  Mt. Morris, MI
Windham Hills Estates                       353           78%(4)          88%            91%
  Jackson, MI
Woodhaven Place (6)                         220            99%            99%            100%
                                            ---            ---            ---            ----
  Metro Detroit, MI

MICHIGAN TOTAl                              13,154           96%            96%            94%
                                            ======           ===            ===            ===

INDIANA
Brookside Mobile Home Village               570           87%(4)          93%            93%
  Goshen, IN
Carrington Pointe                           320           88%(4)          89%            81%
  Ft. Wayne, IN
Clear Water Mobile Village                  227            98%            95%            90%
  South Bend, IN
Cobus Green Mobile Home Park                386            97%            94%            87%
  Elkhart, IN
Deerfield Run Manufactured Home             175           59%(4)         75%(4)        60% (4)
  Community (4)
  Anderson, IN
</TABLE>


                                       16
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         DEVELOPED       OCCUPANCY     OCCUPANCY      OCCUPANCY
                                        SITES AS OF        AS OF         AS OF          AS OF
      PROPERTY AND LOCATION               12/31/01      12/31/99(1)    12/31/00(1)    12/31/01(1)
      ---------------------               --------      -----------    -----------    -----------
<S>                                     <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>
Four Seasons Mobile Home Park               218            (2)            96%            98%
  Elkhart, IN
Holiday Mobile Home Village                 326            98%            99%            97%
  Elkhart, IN
Liberty Farms Communities                   220            98%            100%           98%
  Valparaiso, IN
Maplewood Mobile Home Park                  207            97%            94%            91%
  Lawrence, IN
Meadows Mobile Home Park                    330            97%            95%            89%
  Nappanee, IN
Pine Hills Mobile Home Subdivision          130            95%            91%            96%
  Middlebury, IN
Roxbury Park                                398            (3)            (3)            92%
  Goshen, IN
Timberbrook Mobile Home Park                567            93%            90%            90%
  Bristol, IN
Valley Brook Mobile Home Park               799            97%            95%            95%
  Indianapolis, IN
West Glen Village Mobile Home Park          552            98%            99%            98%
  Indianapolis, IN
Woodlake Estates (4)                        338            97%(4)         67%(4)         69%(4)
  Ft. Wayne, IN
Woods Edge Mobile Village                   598            91%            93%            84%
                                            ---            ---            ---            ---
  West Lafayette, IN

INDIANA TOTAL                               6,361           94%            92%            90%
                                            =====           ===            ===            ===

OTHER
Apple Creek Manufactured Home               176            99%            98%            91%
Community and Self Storage
  Cincinnati, OH
Autumn Ridge Mobile Home Park               413            99%            100%           99%
   Ankeny, IA
Bell Crossing Manufactured Home             239            81%            84%           53%(4)
Community (4)
  Clarksville, TN
Boulder Ridge                               362            96%            98%            98%
  Pflugerville, TX
Branch Creek Estates                        392            100%           99%            100%
  Austin, TX
Byrne Hill Village Manufactured             236            97%            97%            97%
  Home Toledo, OH
Candlelight Village Mobile Home             309            97%            96%            98%
  Park Chicago Heights, IL
Casa del Valle (7)                          408            100%           100%           100%
  Alamo, TX
Catalina Mobile Home Park                   462            94%            90%            83%
  Middletown, OH
Chisholm Point Estates                      416            100%           99%            98%
  Pflugerville, TX
Desert View Village                         93             (4)           6%(4)          25%(4)
  West Wendover, NV
Eagle Crest                                 150            (3)            (3)            84%
  Firestone, CO
Edwardsville Mobile Home Park               634            94%            97%            97%
  Edwardsville, KS
Forest Meadows                              76             86%            88%            83%
  Philomath, OR
High Pointe (8)                             411            95%            95%            93%
</TABLE>


                                       17
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         DEVELOPED       OCCUPANCY     OCCUPANCY      OCCUPANCY
                                        SITES AS OF        AS OF         AS OF          AS OF
      PROPERTY AND LOCATION               12/31/01      12/31/99(1)    12/31/00(1)    12/31/01(1)
      ---------------------               --------      -----------    -----------    -----------
<S>                                     <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>
  Frederica, DE
Kenwood RV and Mobile Home Plaza            289            100%           100%           100%
  (7) LaFeria, TX
North Point Estates (4)                     108            (3)            (3)           38%(4)
   Pueblo, CO
Oakwood Village                             511           75%(6)          78%            73%
  Dayton, OH
Orchard Lake Manufactured Home              147            99%            98%            97%
  Community Cincinnati, OH
Paradise Park                               277            98%            99%            96%
  Chicago Heights, IL
Pecan Branch (4)                            69             (3)            (3)          67% (4)
  Williamson County, TX
Pin Oak Parc Mobile Home Park               502            91%            98%            99%
  O'Fallon, MO
Pine Ridge Mobile Home Park                 245            98%            98%            98%
  Petersburg, VA
Sea Air (7) (8)                             527            99%            100%           99%
  Rehoboth Beach, DE
Snow to Sun (7)                             493            99%            99%            100%
  Weslaco, TX
Southfork Mobile Home Park                  477            96%            96%            95%
  Belton, MO
Sun Villa Estates                           324            100%           100%           100%
  Reno, NV
Timber Ridge Mobile Home Park               582            99%            98%            99%
  Ft. Collins, CO
Westbrook Village (6)                       344            99%            98%            99%
  Toledo, OH
Westbrook Senior Village                    112            (3)            (3)            94%
  Toledo, OH
Willowbrook Place (6)                       266            100%           99%            98%
  Toledo, OH
Woodland Park Estates                       399            99%            99%            98%
  Eugene, OR
Woodside Terrace Manufactured               439            98%            96%            98%
  Home Community (6)
  Holland, OH
Worthington Arms Mobile Home Park           224            100%           99%            99%
                                            ---            ----           ---            ---
  Delaware, OH

OTHER TOTAL                                 11,112           91%            95%            93%
                                            ======           ===            ===            ===

SOUTHEAST
FLORIDA
Arbor Terrace RV Park                       402            (5)            (5)            (5)
  Bradenton, FL
Ariana Village Mobile Home Park             208            83%            85%            86%
  Lakeland, FL
Bonita Lake Resort                          167            (5)            (5)            (5)
  Bonita Springs, FL
Buttonwood Bay (7)                          941            (3)            (3)            100%
  Sebring, FL
Gold Coaster Manufactured Home              548            100%           100%           100%
  Community (7)
  Florida City, FL
Groves RV Resort                            306            (5)            (5)            (5)
  Lee County, FL
Holly Forest Estates                        402            100%           100%           100%
  Holly Hill, FL
Indian Creek Park (7)                       1,554           100%           100%           100%
</TABLE>


                                       18
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         DEVELOPED       OCCUPANCY     OCCUPANCY      OCCUPANCY
                                        SITES AS OF        AS OF         AS OF          AS OF
      PROPERTY AND LOCATION               12/31/01      12/31/99(1)    12/31/00(1)    12/31/01(1)
      ---------------------               --------      -----------    -----------    -----------
<S>                                     <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>
  Ft. Myers Beach, Fl
Island Lakes Mobile Home Park               301            100%           100%           100%
  Merritt Island, FL
Kings Lake Mobile Home Park                 245            91%            96%            99%
  Debary, FL.
Kings Pointe Mobile Home Park (9)           227            56%            56%            57%
  Winter Haven, FL
Lake Juliana Landings Mobile Home           287            69%            71%            74%
  Park Auburndale, FL
Lake San Marino RV Park                     415            (5)            (5)            (5)
  Naples, FL
Leesburg Landing                            96             66%            68%            68%
  Lake County, FL
Meadowbrook Village Mobile Home             257            100%           98%            99%
  Park Tampa, Fl,
Orange Tree Village Mobile Home             246            96%            99%            100%
  Park Orange City, FL
Royal Country Mobile Home Park              864            100%           100%           99%
  Miami, FL
Saddle Oak Club Mobile Home Park            376            100%           99%            100%
  Ocala Fl,
Siesta Bay RV Park                          859            (5)            (5)            (5)
  Ft. Myers Beach, FL
Silver Star Mobile Village                  408            95%            96%            98%
  Orlando, FL
Water Oak Country Club                      808            100%           100%           100%
                                            ---            ----           ----           ----
Estates/Water Oak Mobile Home Park
  Lady Lake, FL,
Florida Total                               9,917          94%            94%            96%
                                            =====          ===            ===            ===

TOTAL/AVERAGE                               40,544         95%            95%             93%
                                            ======         ===            ===             ===
</TABLE>

(1)   Occupancy percentage relates to manufactured housing sites, excluding
      recreational vehicle sites.

(2)   Acquired in 2000.

(3)   Acquired in 2001.

(4)   Occupancy in these Properties reflects the fact that these communities are
      in their initial lease-up phase following an expansion or ground up
      development.

(5)   This Property contains only recreational vehicle sites.

(6)   The Company leases this Property. The Company has the option and intends
      to purchase the Property upon the expiration of the lease. If the Company
      does not exercise its option to purchase, the lessor has the right to
      cause the Company to purchase the Property at the expiration of the lease
      at the then outstanding lease obligation.

(7)   This Property contains recreational vehicle sites.

(8)   This Property is financed and managed by the Company.

(9)   This Property was sold in February 2002.

      Leases. The typical lease we enter into with a tenant for the rental of a
site is month-to-month or year-to-year, renewable upon the consent of both
parties, or, in some instances, as provided by statute. In some cases, leases
are for one-year terms, with up to ten renewal options exercisable by the
tenant, with rent adjusted for increases in the consumer price index. These
leases are cancelable for non-payment of rent, violation of community rules and
regulations or other specified defaults. See "Regulations and Insurance."


                                       19
<PAGE>
ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

      We are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary
course of business. All such proceedings, taken together, are not expected to
have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial
condition.

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

      No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's security holders
during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.

PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
            MATTERS

      MARKET INFORMATION

      Our Common Stock has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE")
since December 8, 1993 under the symbol "SUI." On March 4, 2002, the closing
sales price of the Common Stock was $38.73 and the Common Stock was held by
approximately 675 holders of record. The following table sets forth the high and
low closing sales prices per share for the Common Stock for the periods
indicated as reported by the NYSE and the distributions paid by the Company with
respect to each such period.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           High        Low      Distribution
                                                           ----        ---      ------------
<S>                                                       <C>         <C>       <C>
        FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000
           First Quarter of 2000......................    34.9375     27.375         .51
           Second Quarter of 2000.....................    33.625      29.375         .53
           Third Quarter of 2000......................    33.75       30.1875        .53
           Fourth Quarter of 2000.....................    35.625      29.00          .53

        FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001
           First Quarter of 2001......................    34.6875     30.80          .53
           Second Quarter of 2001.....................    35.50       31.45          .55
           Third Quarter of 2001......................    36.85       34.73          .55
           Fourth Quarter of 2001.....................    38.55       36.00          .55
</TABLE>

      RECENT SALES OF UNREGISTERED SECURITIES

      On April 16, 2001, the Operating Partnership issued 46,117 Series B-1
Preferred Units to River Haven Village, Inc. in exchange for property with an
agreed upon value of $4,611,692.48 (the "Series B-1 Units"). Holders of the
Series B-1 Units may require the Operating Partnership to redeem all of the
outstanding Series B-1 Units within the ninety (90) day period following any
anniversary of the Series B-1 Unit issuance date beginning on April 16, 2006, or
the death of River Haven's current president. On or after July 16, 2012, the
Operating Partnership may redeem all of the outstanding Series B-1 Units on
written notice to the Series B-1 Unit holders. The Operating Partnership shall
pay a redemption price of $100.00 per Series B-1 Unit redeemed.


                                       20
<PAGE>
      On January 31, 2002, the Operating Partnership issued 100,000 Series B-2
Preferred Units to Bay Area Limited Partnership and assumed approximately
$10,500,000 of debt, in exchange for property with a net agreed upon value of
$15,000,000 (the "Series B-2 Units"). Holders of the Series B-2 Units may
require the Operating Partnership to redeem all of the outstanding Series B-2
Units within the ninety (90) day period following the fifth anniversary of the
Series B-2 Unit issuance date, the death of Bay Area's president, or the
occurrence of a change of control as defined in the Operating Partnership's
limited partnership agreement, but in no event may the Series B-2 Unit holders
require the redemption of the Series B-2 Units prior to January 31, 2007. The
Operating Partnership shall pay a redemption price of $45.00 per Series B-2 Unit
redeemed. In addition, holders of the Series B-2 Units may convert such units
into Common OP Units at a conversion price of $45 per unit within the ninety
(90) day period following the third anniversary of the Series B-2 Unit issuance
date.

      In 2001, the Company issued an aggregate of 98,036 shares of its Common
Stock upon conversion of an aggregate of 98,036 OP Units.

      All of the above OP Units and shares of Common Stock were issued in
private placements in reliance on Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, including Regulation D promulgated thereunder. No underwriters were
used in connection with any of such issuances.


                                       21
<PAGE>
ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

                              SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                             -----------------------
                                                     2001            2000             1999            1998            1997
                                                     ----            ----             ----            ----            ----
                                                              (IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT FOR PER SHARE AND OTHER DATA)
<S>                                                <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>
OPERATING DATA:
Revenues:
   Income from property                            $139,022        $132,440        $125,424        $114,346        $ 93,188
   Other income                                      14,532          14,105           9,530           5,984           2,942
                                                   --------        --------        --------        --------        --------
           Total revenues                           153,554         146,545         134,954         120,330          96,130
                                                   --------        --------        --------        --------        --------
Expenses:
   Property operating and maintenance                29,154          28,592          27,300          25,647          21,111
   Real estate taxes                                  9,524           9,115           8,888           8,728           7,481
   Property management                                2,746           2,934           2,638           2,269           1,903
   General and administrative .                       4,627           4,079           3,682           3,339           2,617
   Depreciation and amortization                     33,516          30,671          28,551          24,961          20,668
   Interest                                          31,016          29,651          27,289          23,987          14,423
                                                   --------        --------        --------        --------        --------
           Total expenses                           110,583         105,042          98,348          88,931          68,203
                                                   --------        --------        --------        --------        --------
Income before gain from properly dispositions,
   net and minority interests                        42,971          41,503          36,606          31,399          27,927

Gain from property dispositions, net                  4,275           4,801             829             655 (A)          --
                                                   --------        --------        --------        --------        --------

Income before minority interests                     47,246          46,304          37,435          32,054          27,927
Income allocated to minority interests               13,336          13,010           8,346           5,958           5,672
                                                   --------        --------        --------        --------        --------
Net income                                         $ 33,910        $ 33,294        $ 29,089        $ 26,096        $ 22,255
                                                   ========        ========        ========        ========        ========

Net income per weighted average share:

   Basic                                           $   1.96        $   1.92        $   1.69        $   1.55        $   1.38
                                                   ========        ========        ========        ========        ========
   Diluted                                         $   1.94        $   1.91        $   1.68        $   1.53        $   1.37
                                                   ========        ========        ========        ========        ========
Weighted average common shares outstanding:

   Basic                                             17,258          17,304          17,191          16,856          16,081
                                                   ========        ========        ========        ========        ========
   Diluted                                           17,440          17,390          17,343          17,031          16,268
                                                   ========        ========        ========        ========        ========
Distribution per common share .                    $   2.18        $   2.10        $   2.02        $   1.94        $  1.865
                                                   ========        ========        ========        ========        ========
BALANCE SHEET DATA:
Rental property, before accumulated
   depreciation                                    $953,656        $867,377        $847,696        $803,152        $684,821
Total assets                                       $994,449        $966,628        $904,032        $821,439        $690,914
Total debt                                         $495,198        $464,508        $401,564        $365,164        $264,264
Stockholders' equity                               $329,641        $336,034        $338,358        $340,364        $326,780
OTHER DATA (AT END OF PERIOD):

Total properties                                        116             109             110             104              99
Total sites                                          40,544          38,282          38,217          37,566          35,936
</TABLE>

(A) Includes an $875 expense related to an unsuccessful portfolio acquisition.

                                       22
<PAGE>
ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
            CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

      The following discussion and analysis of the consolidated financial
condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the
Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto elsewhere herein.

      The Company is a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed REIT
which owns, operates and finances manufactured housing communities concentrated
in the midwestern and southeastern United States. As of December 31, 2001, the
Company owned and operated or financed a portfolio of 116 developed properties
located in 15 states, including 104 manufactured housing communities, 5
recreational vehicle communities, and 7 properties containing both manufactured
housing and recreational vehicle sites.

      During 2001, the Company acquired five manufactured housing communities,
comprising 2,332 developed sites, for $55.8 million and two development
communities, comprising 1,273 sites, for $4.3 million and the Company sold two
manufactured housing communities for $16.2 million.

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

      Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations discusses the Company's consolidated financial statements, which have
been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The
preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
the reporting periods. In preparing these financial statements, management has
made its best estimates and judgment of certain amounts included in the
financial statements. Nevertheless, actual results may differ from these
estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

      Management believes the following significant accounting policies, among
others, affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the
preparation of its consolidated financial statements:

      Principles of Consolidation. The financial statements include the accounts
of the Company and all majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries, including Sun
Communities Operating Limited Partnership.

      Notes Receivable. The Company evaluates the recoverability of its notes
receivable whenever events occur or there are changes in circumstances such that
management believes it is probable that it will be unable to collect all amounts
due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. The loan is then
measured based on the present value of the expected future cash flow discounted
at the loan's effective interest rate or the fair value of the collateral if the
loan is collateral dependent.


                                       23
<PAGE>
      Rental Property. Rental property is recorded at cost, less accumulated
depreciation. Management evaluates the recoverability of its investment in
rental property whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as recent
operating results, expected net operating cash flow and plans for future
operations, indicate that full asset recoverability is questionable.
Recoverability of these assets is measured by a comparison of the carrying
amount of such assets to the future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be
generated by the assets. If such assets were deemed to be impaired as a result
of this measurement, the impairment that would be recognized is measured by the
amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the
asset as determined on a discounted net cash flow basis.

      Revenue Recognition. Rental income attributable to leases is recorded on a
straight-line basis when earned from tenants. Leases entered into by tenants
generally range from month-to-month to one year and are renewable by mutual
agreement of the Company and the resident.

      Income Taxes. The Company has elected to be taxed as a REIT as defined
under Section 856(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In order
for the Company to qualify as a REIT, at least ninety-five percent (95%) of the
Company's gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources. As a
REIT, the Company generally will not be subject to U.S. Federal income taxes at
the corporate level if it distributes at least ninety percent (90%) of its REIT
ordinary taxable income to its stockholders, which it fully intends to do.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Comparison of year ended December 31, 2001 to year ended December 31, 2000

      For the year ended December 31, 2001, income before gain from property
dispositions, net and minority interests increased by $1.5 million from $41.5
million to $43.0 million, when compared to the year ended December 31, 2000. The
increase was due to increased revenues of $7.0 million while expenses increased
by $5.5 million.

      Income from property increased by $6.6 million from $132.4 million to
$139.0 million, or 5.0 percent, due to rent increases and other community
revenues ($6.5 million) and acquisitions ($4.4 million), offset by a revenue
reduction of $4.3 million due to property dispositions.

      Other income increased by $0.4 million from $14.1 million to $14.5 million
due primarily to an increase in interest income ($1.3 million) offset by
reductions in income from affiliate ($0.5 million) and other income ($0.4
million).

      Property operating and maintenance expenses increased by $0.6 million from
$28.6 million to $29.2 million, or 2.0 percent, representing general cost
increases ($1.0 million) and acquisitions ($0.7 million), offset by an expense
reduction of $1.1 million due to property dispositions.

      Real estate taxes increased by $0.4 million from $9.1 million to $9.5
million, or 4.5 percent, due to the acquired communities ($0.2 million) and
changes in certain assessments.

      Property management expenses decreased by $0.2 million from $2.9 million
to $2.7


                                       24
<PAGE>
million, representing 2.0 percent and 2.2 percent of income from property in
2001 and 2000, respectively.

      General and administrative expenses increased by $0.5 million from $4.1
million to $4.6 million, representing 3.0 percent and 2.8 percent of total
revenues in 2001 and 2000, respectively.

      Interest expense increased by $1.4 million from $29.6 million to $31.0
million due primarily to financing additional investments in rental property
offset by decreasing rates on variable rate debt.

      Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"
an alternative financial performance measure that may not be comparable to
similarly titled measures reported by other companies, defined as total revenues
less property operating and maintenance, real estate taxes, property management
and general and administrative expenses) increased by $5.7 million from $101.8
million to $107.5 million. EBITDA as a percent of revenues increased to 70.0
percent in 2001 compared to 69.5 percent in 2000.

      Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $2.8 million from $30.7
million to $33.5 million due primarily to the net additional investments in
rental properties.

Comparison of year ended December 31, 2000 to year ended December 31, 1999

      For the year ended December 31, 2000, income before gain from property
dispositions, net and minority interests increased by $4.9 million from $36.6
million to $41.5 million, when compared to the year ended December 31, 1999. The
increase was due to increased revenues of $11.6 million while expenses increased
by $6.7 million.

      Income from property increased by $7.0 million from $125.4 million to
$132.4 million, or 5.6 percent, due to rent increases and other community
revenues ($5.3 million), acquisitions ($3.1 million), lease up of manufactured
home sites ($2.2 million), offset by a revenue reduction of $3.6 million due to
the sale of communities during 1999.

      Other income increased by $4.6 million from $9.5 million to $14.1 million
due primarily to an increase in interest income ($3.0 million) and other income
($2.7 million), offset by a $1.1 million reduction in income from affiliate.

      Property operating and maintenance expenses increased by $1.3 million from
$27.3 million to $28.6 million, or 4.7 percent, due primarily to acquisitions
($0.8 million).

      Real estate taxes increased by $0.2 million from $8.9 million to $9.1
million, or 2.5 percent, due primarily to the acquired communities.

      Property management expenses increased by $0.3 million from $2.6 million
to $2.9 million, or 11.2 percent, representing 2.2 percent and 2.1 percent of
income from property in 2000 and 1999, respectively.

      General and administrative expenses increased by $0.4 million from $3.7
million to $4.1 million, or 10.8 percent, representing 2.8 percent and 2.7
percent of total revenues in 2000 and 1999, respectively.


                                       25
<PAGE>

      Interest expense increased by $2.4 million from $27.3 million to $29.7
million due primarily to investments in rental property and notes receivable.

      EBITDA increased by $9.4 million from $92.4 million to $101.8 million.
EBITDA as a percent of revenues increased to 69.5 percent in 2000 compared to
68.5 percent in 1999.

      Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $2.1 million from $28.6
million to $30.7 million due primarily to the acquisition and
development/expansion of communities in 2000 and 1999.

SAME PROPERTY INFORMATION

      The following table reflects property-level financial information as of
and for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000. The "Same Property" data
represents information regarding the operation of communities owned as of
January 1, 2000 and December 31, 2001. Site, occupancy, and rent data for those
communities is presented as of the last day of each period presented. The "Total
Portfolio" column differentiates from the "Same Property" column by including
financial information for managed but not owned communities, recreational
vehicle communities, new development and acquisition communities.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       SAME PROPERTY (2)                TOTAL PORTFOLIO
                                                       -----------------                ---------------
                                                    2001             2000            2001             2000
                                                    ----             ----            ----             ----
                                                       (in thousands)                   (in thousands)
<S>                                               <C>              <C>             <C>              <C>
Income from property                              $105,311         $99,955         $139,022         $132,440
                                                  --------         -------         --------         --------

Property operating expenses:
      Property operating and maintenance            18,331          18,141           29,154           28,592
      Real estate taxes                              8,079           7,440            9,524            9,115
                                                  --------         -------         --------         --------
           Property operating expenses              26,410          25,581           38,678           37,707
                                                  --------         -------         --------         --------
Property EBITDA                                   $ 78,901         $74,374         $100,344         $ 94,733
                                                  ========         =======         ========         ========

Number of properties                                    90              90              116              109
Developed sites                                     30,385          30,208           40,544           38,282
Occupied sites (1)                                  28,465          28,710           36,935           35,546
Occupancy % (1)                                       93.7%           95.0%            93.0%            95.0%
Weighted average monthly rent per site            $    303         $   290         $    301         $    288
Sites available for development                      2,364           1,917            3,887            4,248
Sites planned for development in next year             257             190              613              659
</TABLE>

      (1)   Occupancy % and weighted average rent relates to manufactured
            housing sites, excluding recreational vehicle sites.

      (2)   Includes 3 properties sold in December 2000.

On a same property basis, property revenues increased by $5.4 million from $99.9
million to $105.3 million, or 5.4 percent, due primarily to increases in rents
and related charges including water and property tax pass through.

Property operating expenses increased by $0.8 million from $25.6 million to
$26.4 million, or 3.2 percent, due to increased costs. Property EBITDA
increased by $4.5 million from $74.4 million to $78.9 million, or 6.1 percent.


                                       26
<PAGE>
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

      The Company's principal liquidity demands have historically been, and are
expected to continue to be, distributions to the Company's stockholders and the
Operating Partnership's unitholders, property acquisitions, development and
expansion of properties, capital improvements of properties and debt repayment.

      The Company expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements through
its working capital provided by operating activities and its line of credit, as
described below. The Company considers its ability to generate cash from
operations (anticipated to be approximately $70 million) to be adequate to meet
all operating requirements, including recurring capital improvements, routinely
amortizing debt and other normally recurring expenditures of a capital nature,
pay dividends to its stockholders to maintain qualification as a REIT in
accordance with the Internal Revenue Code and make distributions to the
Operating Partnership's unitholders.

      The Company plans to invest approximately $25 to $30 million in
developments consisting of expansions to existing communities and the new or
continuing development of new communities. The Company expects to finance these
investments by using net cash flows provided by operating activities and by
drawing upon its line of credit.

      Furthermore, the Company expects to invest in the range of $40 to $60
million in the acquisition of properties in 2002, depending upon market
conditions. The Company plans to finance these investments by using net cash
flows provided by operating activities and by drawing upon its line of credit.

      Cash and cash equivalents decreased by $13.9 million to $4.6 million at
December 31, 2001 compared to $18.5 million at December 31, 2000 because cash
used in investing and financing activities exceeded cash provided by operating
activities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $9.2 million
to $65.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 compared to $56.7 million
for the year ended December 31, 2000. This increase was primarily due to income
before minority interests, depreciation and amortization and gain from property
dispositions, net increasing by $4.0 million and other assets decreasing by $2.6
million, offset by accounts payable and other liabilities increasing by $2.5
million.

      The Company's net cash flows provided by operating activities may be
adversely impacted by, among other things: (a) the market and economic
conditions in the Company's current markets generally, and specifically in
metropolitan areas of the Company's current markets; (b) lower occupancy and
rental rates of the Properties; (c) increased operating costs, including
insurance premiums, real estate taxes and utilities, that cannot be passed on to
the Company's tenants; and (d) decreased sales of manufactured homes. See
"Factors that May Affect Future Results."

      The Company's $150 million unsecured line of credit, which expires in
January 2003, bears interest at the annual rate of LIBOR plus 1.0%. At December
31, 2001, the average interest rate of outstanding borrowings under the line of
credit was 3.22%, $93 million was outstanding and $57 million was available to
be drawn. The line of credit facility contains


                                       27
<PAGE>
various leverage, debt service coverage, net worth maintenance and other
customary covenants all of which the Company was in compliance with at December
31, 2001.

      The Company's primary long-term liquidity needs are principal payments on
outstanding indebtedness. At December 31, 2001, the Company's outstanding
contractual obligations were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         Payments Due By Period
                                                             (in thousands)
                                              ----------------------------------------------
Contractual Cash Obligations(1)   Total Due   1 year   2-3 years   4-5 years   After 5 years
- -------------------------------   ---------   ------   ---------   ---------   -------------
<S>                               <C>         <C>      <C>         <C>         <C>
Line of credit                     $93,000              $93,000
Collateratized term loan            42,820     $ 614      1,365     $1,569       $39,272
Senior notes                       285,000               85,000                  200,000
Mortgage notes, other               48,333       857      2,719      7,986        36,771
Capitalized lease obligations       26,045    16,176      9,869
Redeemable Preferred OP Units       43,958                           3,564        40,394
                                  --------   -------   --------    -------      --------
                                  $539,156   $17,647   $191,953    $13,119      $316,437
                                  ========   =======   ========    =======      ========
</TABLE>

(1)   The Company is the guarantor of $23.2 million in personal bank loans which
      is not reflected in the balance sheet, maturing in 2004, made to the
      Company's directors, employees and consultants for the purpose of
      purchasing shares of Company common stock or Operating Partnership OP
      Units pursuant to the Company's Stock Purchase Plan. The Company is
      obligated under the Guaranty only in the event that one or more of the
      borrowers cannot repay their loan when due.

      The Company anticipates meeting its long-term liquidity requirements, such
as scheduled debt maturities, large property acquisitions and Operating
Partnership unit redemptions, through the issuance of debt or equity securities,
including equity units in the Operating Partnership, or from selective asset
sales. Along with Origen LLC's other investors, the Company may be requested to
make additional capital contributions to maintain its respective ownership
interest. The Company has maintained investment grade ratings with Fitch ICBA,
Moody's Investor Service and Standard & Poor's, which facilitates access to the
senior unsecured debt market. Since 1993, the Company has raised, in the
aggregate, $263.4 million from the sale of shares of its common stock, $84.2
from the sale of OP units in the Operating Partnership and $430 million from the
issuance of secured and unsecured debt securities. In addition, at December 31,
2001, ninety-six of the Properties were unencumbered by debt, therefore,
providing substantial financial flexibility. The ability of the Company to
finance its long-term liquidity requirements in such manner will be affected by
numerous economic factors affecting the manufactured housing community industry
at the time, including the availability and cost of mortgage debt, the financial
condition of the Company, the operating history of the Properties, the state of
the debt and equity markets, and the general national, regional and local
economic conditions. See "Factors that May Affect Future Results". If the
Company is unable to obtain additional equity or debt financing on acceptable
terms, the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition
will be harmed.

      The terms of the $35.8 million of the Operating Partnership's Preferred OP
units were renegotiated effective December 31, 2001. The conversion price
increased from $27 per unit to at


                                       28
<PAGE>
least $68 per unit and the coupon rate was decreased from nine percent (9%) to
seven percent (7%) for the first two years followed by a variable rate ranging
from 6.5% to 8.5% with mandatory redemption on January 2, 2014.

      At December 31, 2001, the Company's debt to total market capitalization
approximated 36.7 percent (assuming conversion of all Common OP Units to shares
of common stock). The debt has a weighted average maturity of approximately 5.3
years and a weighted average interest rate of 6.6 percent.

      Capital expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000
included recurring capital expenditures of $4.8 million and $4.6 million,
respectively.

      Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $34.3 million to $34.8
million from $69.1 million due to a $84.5 million increase in repayments from
financing notes receivable, net offset by a $20.7 million increase in investment
in and advances to affiliates, a $17.1 million decrease in proceeds related to
property dispositions and a $12.5 million increase in rental property
acquisition activities.

      Net cash used in financing activities increased by $64.5 million to $44.9
million for the year ended December 31, 2001. This increase was primarily
because of a $74.5 million increase in repayments on notes payable and $100
million reduced proceeds from notes payable offset by a $116.0 million increase
in borrowings on the line of credit.

RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

     The Company's ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999 was 1.83:1, 1.87:1, and 1.95:1 respectively.

INDUSTRY CONDITIONS

      According to the Manufactured Housing Institute, the shipments of new
manufactured homes has declined from 373,000 in 1998 to 193,000 in 2001. This
decline was caused primarily by the tightening of credit standards in response
to an increasing number of repossessions. Beginning in 1999, repossessions
increased as unqualified borrowers defaulted on their manufactured home loans.
Financing standards tightened significantly reducing demand at a time of
excessive inventories. Exacerbating this excess supply was the competition of
aggressively priced repossessed homes which further slowed new home sales.

      The Company expects these conditions to work themselves back into
equilibrium. New home shipments increased in October 2001 as compared to October
2000, representing the first such year to year monthly increase since March
1999. Fourth quarter 2001 shipments exceeded fourth quarter 2000 shipments and
the trend has continued through January 2002 with no sign of inventory
accumulation. Repossessions are expected to remain at high levels throughout
most, if not all, of 2002.

      These conditions adversely impact the sale of new homes by Sun Homes,
which harms the Company's profitability. Furthermore, these conditions cause a
slow-down in the leasing of the Company's communities, especially newly
developed expansions and new communities, which in turn slows the development of
new sites causing the Company to hold non-income


                                       29
<PAGE>
producing land inventory longer.

INFLATION

      Most of the leases allow for periodic rent increases which provide the
Company with the opportunity to achieve increases in rental income as each lease
expires. Such types of leases generally minimize the risk of inflation to the
Company.

SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT

      This Form 10-K contains various "forward-looking statements" within the
meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
and the Company intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the
safe harbors created thereby. The words "may", "will", "expect", "believe",
"anticipate", "should", "estimate", and similar expressions identify
forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the
Company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance,
but are based upon current assumptions regarding the Company's operations,
future results and prospects, and are subject to many uncertainties and factors
relating to the Company's operations and business environment which may cause
the actual results of the Company to be materially different from any future
results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Please see
"Factors That May Affect Future Results" for a representative example of such
uncertainties and factors. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly
update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new
information, future events, or otherwise.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

    In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, "Accounting for
the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." This Statement supersedes SFAS
No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to Be Disposed Of," and the accounting and reporting provisions of APB
Opinion No. 30, "Reporting the Results of Operations -- Reporting the Effects of
Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently
Occurring Events and Transactions," for the disposal of a segment of a business
(as previously defined in that Opinion). The provisions of this SFAS 144 are
effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2001, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early
application encouraged. The provisions of this standard are generally to be
applied prospectively. The Company does not expect a material impact from the
adoption of this standard.

      In June 2001, the FASB approved SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations and
SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." SFAS 141 requires, among
other things, that the purchase method of accounting for business combinations
be used for all business combinations initiated after September 30, 2001. SFAS
142 addresses the accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets subsequent
to their acquisition. SFAS 142 requires, among other things, that goodwill and
other indefinite-lived intangible assets no longer be amortized and that such
assets be tested for impairment at least annually. SFAS 142 is effective for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. The Company does not expect
these pronouncements to have a material impact on its financial statements.


                                       30
<PAGE>
OTHER

     Funds from operations ("FFO") is defined by the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") as "net income (computed in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles) excluding gains (or losses) from
sales of property, plus rental property depreciation and amortization, and after
adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures." Industry
analysts consider FFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of the operating
performance of an equity REIT primarily because the computation of FFO excludes
historical cost depreciation as an expense and thereby facilitates the
comparison of REITs which have different cost bases in their assets. Historical
cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real
estate assets diminishes predictably over time, whereas real estate values have
instead historically risen or fallen based upon market conditions. FFO does not
represent cash flow from operations as defined by generally accepted accounting
principles and is a supplemental measure of performance that does not replace
net income as a measure of performance or net cash provided by operating
activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, FFO is not intended as a
measure of a REIT's ability to meet debt principal repayments and other cash
requirements, nor as a measure of working capital. The following table
calculates FFO data for both basic and diluted purposes for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 (in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              2001             2000             1999
                                                              ----             ----             ----
<S>                                                        <C>              <C>              <C>
      Net income                                           $ 33,910         $ 33,294         $ 29,089
      Deduct Gain from property dispositions, net            (4,275)          (4,801)            (829)
      Add:
         Minority interest in earnings to
           common OP Unit holders                             5,205            5,184            4,683
         Depreciation and amortization, net
           of corporate office depreciation                  33,246           30,393           28,310
                                                           --------         --------         --------

      Funds from operations - basic                          68,086           64,070           61,253
      Add distributions on
            Convertible preferred OP Units                       --               --            2,505
                                                           --------         --------         --------
      Funds from operations - diluted                      $ 68,086         $ 64,070         $ 63,758
                                                           ========         ========         ========
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           DECEMBER 31,
                                                                           ------------
                                                              2001             2000             1999
                                                              ----             ----             ----
<S>                                                        <C>              <C>              <C>
      Weighted average common shares and OP Units
        outstanding for basic per share/unit data            19,907           19,999           19,961
      Dilutive securities:
           Stock options and awards                             182               86              152
           Convertible preferred OP Units                        --               --            1,245
                                                           --------         --------         --------
      Weighted average common shares and OP Units
        outstanding for diluted per share/unit data          20,089           20,085           21,358
                                                           ========         ========         ========
</TABLE>


                                       31
<PAGE>
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

   The Company's principal market risk exposure is interest rate risk. The
Company does not hedge interest rate risk using financial instruments nor is the
Company subject to foreign currency risk on its long-term debt, mortgage notes
and other notes receivable. The Company's exposure to market risk for changes in
interest rates relates primarily to refinancing long-term fixed rate
obligations, the opportunity cost of fixed rate obligations in a falling
interest rate environment and its variable rate line of credit. The Company
primarily enters into debt obligations to support general corporate purposes
including acquisitions, capital improvements and working capital needs.

    The Company manages its exposure to interest rate risk on its variable rate
indebtedness by borrowing on a short term basis under its line of credit until
such time as it is able to retire the short term variable rate debt with a long
term fixed rate debt offering on terms that are advantageous.

    The Company's variable rate debt is limited to its $150 million line of
credit ($93.0 million outstanding as of December 31, 2001) which bears interest
at LIBOR plus 1.0 percent. If LIBOR increased or decreased by 1.0 percent during
2001 and 2000, the Company believes its interest expense would have increased or
decreased by approximately $0.7 million and $0.5 million based on the $69.2
million and $49.9 million average balance outstanding under the Company's line
of credit for the year ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

    Additionally, the Company has $49.0 million LIBOR based variable rate
mortgage and other notes receivables at December 31, 2001. If LIBOR increased or
decreased by 1.0 percent during 2001 and 2000, the Company believes interest
income would have increased or decreased by approximately $0.8 million and $0.7
million based on the $79.5 million and $68.0 million average balance outstanding
on all variable rate notes receivables for the year ended December 31, 2001 and
2000, respectively.

                                       32
<PAGE>
ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

      Financial statements and supplementary data are filed herewith under Item
14.

ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
            FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

      Not applicable.


                                    PART III

      The information required by ITEMS 10, 11, 12 AND 13 will be included in
the Company's proxy statement for its 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and
is incorporated herein by reference.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

      (a)   The following documents are filed herewith as part of this Form
            10-K:

            (1) A list of the financial statements required to be filed as a
part of this Form 10-K is shown in the "Index to the Consolidated Financial
Statements and Financial Statement Schedule" filed herewith.

            (2) A list of the financial statement schedules required to be filed
as a part of this Form 10-K is shown in the "Index to the Consolidated Financial
Statements and Financial Statement Schedule" filed herewith.

            (3) A list of the exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K to
be filed as a part of this Form 10-K is shown on the "Exhibit Index" filed
herewith.

      (b)   Reports on Form 8-K:

            No Current Reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last fiscal
quarter for the year ended December 31, 2001.


                                       33
<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: March 27, 2002
                                             SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.

                                             By  /s/ Gary A. Shiffman
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                     Gary A. Shiffman, President

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Annual Report on Form 10-K has been signed by the following persons on behalf of
the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
NAME                                           TITLE                      DATE
- ----                                           -----                      ----
<S>                            <C>                                   <C>
/s/ Gary A. Shiffman           Chief Executive Officer, President    March 27, 2002
- --------------------           and Chairman of the Board of
Gary A. Shiffman               Directors


/s/ Jeffrey P. Jorissen        Senior Vice President, Chief          March 27, 2002
- -----------------------        Financial Officer, Treasurer,
Jeffrey P. Jorissen            Secretary and Principal Accounting
                               Officer

/s/ Paul D. Lapides            Director                              March 27, 2002
- -------------------
Paul D. Lapides

/s/ Ted. J. Simon              Director                              March 27, 2002
- -----------------
Ted J. Simon

/s/ Clunet R. Lewis            Director                              March 27, 2002
- -------------------
Clunet R. Lewis

/s/ Ronald L. Piasecki         Director                              March 27, 2002
- ----------------------
Ronald L. Piasecki

/s/ Arthur A. Weiss            Director                              March 27, 2002
- -------------------
Arthur A. Weiss
</TABLE>


                                       34
<PAGE>
                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 EXHIBIT                                                          METHOD OF
  NUMBER                        DESCRIPTION                         FILING
  ------                        -----------                         ------
<S>        <C>                                                    <C>
    2.1    Form of Sun Communities, Inc.'s Common Stock              (1)
           Certificate

    3.1    Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Sun     (1)
           Communities, Inc

    3.2    Bylaws of Sun Communities, Inc.                           (3)

    4.1    Indenture, dated as of April 24, 1996, among Sun          (4)
           Communities, Inc., Sun Communities Operating Limited
           Partnership (the "Operating Partnership") and Bankers
           Trust Company, as Trustee

    4.2    Form of Note for the 2001 Notes                           (4)

    4.3    Form of Note for the 2003 Notes                           (4)

    4.4    First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 20,      (9)
           1997, by and between the Operating Partnership and
           Bankers Trust Company, as Trustee

    4.5    Form of Medium-Term Note (Floating Rate)                  (9)

    4.6    Form of Medium-Term Note (Fixed Rate)                     (9)

    4.7    Articles Supplementary of Board of Directors of Sun      (11)
           Communities, Inc. Designating a Series of Preferred
           Stock and Fixing Distribution and other Rights in
           such Series

    4.8    Articles Supplementary of Board of Directors of Sun      (13)
           Communities, Inc. Designating a Series of Preferred
           Stock

   10.1    Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited          (8)
           Partnership of Sun Communities Operating Limited
           Partnership

   10.2    Second Amended and Restated 1993 Stock Option Plan       (12)

   10.3    Amended and Restated 1993 Non-Employee Director Stock     (8)
           Option Plan

   10.4    Form of Stock Option Agreement between Sun                (1)
           Communities, Inc. and certain directors, officers and
           other individuals#

   10.5    Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement      (5)
           between Sun Communities, Inc. and certain directors#

   10.6    Employment Agreement between Sun Communities, Inc.        (8)
           and Gary A. Shiffman#

   10.7    Senior Unsecured Line of Credit Agreement with Lehman     (9)
           Brothers Holdings Inc.

   10.8    Amended and Restated Loan Agreement between Sun           (9)
           Communities Funding Limited Partnership and Lehman
           Brothers Holdings Inc.
</TABLE>


                                       35
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 EXHIBIT                                                          METHOD OF
  NUMBER                        DESCRIPTION                         FILING
  ------                        -----------                         ------
<S>        <C>                                                    <C>
   10.9    Amended and Restated Loan Agreement among Miami Lakes     (9)
           Venture Associates, Sun Communities Funding Limited
           Partnership and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.

  10.10    Form of Indemnification Agreement between each            (9)
           officer and director of Sun Communities, Inc. and Sun
           Communities, Inc.

  10.11    Loan Agreement among the Operating Partnership, Sea       (9)
           Breeze Limited Partnership and High Point Associates,
           LP.

  10.12    Option Agreement by and between the Operating             (9)
           Partnership and Sea Breeze Limited Partnership

  10.13    Option Agreement by and between the Operating             (9)
           Partnership and High Point Associates, LP

  10.14    $1,022,538.12 Promissory Note from Gary A. Shiffman       (7)
           to the Operating Partnership

  10.15    $1,022,538.13 Promissory Note from Gary A. Shiffman       (7)
           to the  Operating Partnership

  10.16    $6,604,923.75 Promissory Note from Gary A. Shiffman       (7)
           to the Operating Partnership

  10.17    Stock Pledge Agreement between Gary A. Shiffman and       (7)
           the Operating Partnership for 94,570 shares of Common
           Stock
  10.18    Stock Pledge Agreement between Gary A. Shiffman and       (7)
           the Operating Partnership for 305,430 shares of
           Common Stock

  10.19    $1,300,195.40 Promissory Note from Gary A. Shiffman       (9)
           to the Operating Partnership

  10.20    $1,300,195.40 Promissory Note from Gary A. Shiffman       (9)
           to the Operating Partnership

  10.21    Stock Pledge Agreement between Gary A. Shiffman and       (9)
           the Operating Partnership with respect to 80,000
           shares of Common Stock

  10.22    Employment Agreement between Sun Communities, Inc.       (11)
           and Jeffrey P. Jorissen#

  10.23    Long Term Incentive Plan                                  (9)

  10.24    Restricted Stock Award Agreement between Sun             (11)
           Communities, Inc. and Gary A. Shiffman, dated June 5,
           1998#

  10.25    Restricted Stock Award Agreement between Sun             (11)
           Communities, Inc. and Jeffrey P. Jorissen, dated June
           5, 1998#

  10.26    Restricted Stock Award Agreement between Sun.            (11)
           Communities, Inc. and Jonathan M. Colman, dated June
           5, 1998#
</TABLE>


                                       36
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 EXHIBIT                                                          METHOD OF
  NUMBER                        DESCRIPTION                         FILING
  ------                        -----------                         ------
<S>        <C>                                                    <C>
  10.27    Restricted Stock Award Agreement between Sun             (11)
           Communities, Inc. and Brian W. Fannon, dated June 5,
           1998#

  10.28    Sun Communities, Inc. 1998 Stock Purchase Plan#          (11)

  10.29    Employment Agreement between Sun SHS, Inc. and Brian     (11)
           Fannon#

  10.30    Facility and Guaranty Agreement among Sun                (11)
           Communities, Inc., the Operating Partnership, Certain
           Subsidiary Guarantors and First National Bank of
           Chicago, dated December 10, 1998

  10.31    Rights Agreement between Sun Communities, Inc. and       (10)
           State Street Bank and Trust Company, dated April 24,
           1998

  10.32    Employment Agreement between Sun Communities, Inc.       (11)
           and Brian W. Fannon#

  10.33    Contribution Agreement, dated as of September 29,        (13)
           1999, by and among the Sun Communities, Inc., the
           Operating Partnership, Belcrest Realty Corporation
           and Belair Real Estate Corporation

  10.34    One Hundred Third Amendment to Second Amended and        (13)
           Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of the
           Operating Partnership

  10.35    One Hundred Eleventh Amendment to Second Amended and     (16)
           Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of the
           Operating Partnership

  10.36    One Hundred Thirty-Sixth Amendment to Second Amended     (16)
           and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of the
           Operating Partnership

  10.37    One Hundred Forty-Fifth Amendment to Second Amended      (16)
           and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of the
           Operating Partnership

  10.38    Restricted Stock Award Agreement between Sun             (16)
           Communities, Inc. and Gary A. Shiffman, dated March
           30, 2001

  10.39    Restricted Stock Award Agreement between Sun             (16)
           Communities, Inc. and Jeffrey P. Jorissen, dated
           March 30, 2001

  10.40    Restricted Stock Award Agreement between Sun             (16)
           Communities, Inc. and Jonathan M. Colman, dated March
           30, 2001

  10.41    Restricted Stock Award Agreement between Sun             (16)
           Communities, Inc. and Brian W. Fannon, dated March
           30, 2001

  10.42    Membership Pledge Agreement dated December 13, 1999      (14)
           between Bingham Financial Services Corporation
           ("Bingham") and the Operating Partnership
</TABLE>


                                       37
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 EXHIBIT                                                          METHOD OF
  NUMBER                        DESCRIPTION                         FILING
  ------                        -----------                         ------
<S>        <C>                                                    <C>
  10.43    Amended and Restated Security Agreement dated            (14)
           December 13, 1999 between Bingham and the Operating
           Partnership
  10.44    Stock Pledge Agreement dated December 13, 1999           (14)
           between Bingham and the Operating Partnership

  10.45    Supplemental Agreement Regarding Assignment of Notes,    (14)
           Loan Agreements and Security Agreements as Collateral
           Security dated December 13, 1999 between Bingham and
           the Operating Partnership

  10.46    Supplemental Agreement Regarding Assignment of Note,     (15)
           Loan Agreement and Security Agreement as Collateral
           Security dated December 13, 1999 between Bingham and
           the Operating Partnership

  10.47    Supplemental Agreement Regarding Assignment of Note      (14)
           and Security Agreement as Collateral Security dated
           March 16, 2000 between Bingham and the Operating
           Partnership

  10.48    Stock Pledge Agreement dated October 20, 2000 between    (14)
           Bingham and the Operating Partnership

  10.49    Amendment to Amended and Restated Security Agreement     (14)
           dated October 20, 2000 between Bingham and the
           Operating Partnership

  10.50    Supplemental Agreement Regarding Assignment of Notes,    (15)
           Loan Agreements and Security Agreements as Collateral
           Security dated December 13, 1999 between Bingham and
           the Operating Partnership.

  10.51    Amended and Restated Subordinated Loan Agreement         (16)
           dated February 1, 2002 among the Operating
           Partnership, Origen Financial, Inc. and Origen
           Financial, L.L.C., amended by First Amendment to
           Amended and Restated Subordinated Loan Agreement
           dated March 22, 2002

  10.52    Third Amended and Restated Promissory Note dated         (16)
           March 22, 2002 executed by Origen Financial, Inc. and
           Origen Financial, L.L.C. in favor of the Operating
           Partnership

  10.53    Amended and Restated  Security Agreement  dated          (16)
           February 1, 2002 between the Operating Partnership
           and Origen Financial, Inc.

  10.54    Amended and Restated Stock Pledge Agreement dated        (16)
           February 1, 2002 between  Origen Financial, Inc. and
           the Operating Partnership
</TABLE>


                                       38
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 EXHIBIT                                                          METHOD OF
  NUMBER                        DESCRIPTION                         FILING
  ------                        -----------                         ------
<S>        <C>                                                    <C>
  10.55    Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company           (16)
           Interest Security and Pledge Agreement dated February
           1, 2002 between Origen Financial, Inc. and the
           Operating Partnership

  10.56    Security Agreement dated February 1, 2002 between the    (16)
           Operating Partnership and Origen Financial, L.L.C.

  10.57    Limited Liability Company Interest Security and          (16)
           Pledge Agreement dated February 1, 2002 between the
           Operating Partnership and Origen Financial, L.L.C.

  10.58    Amended and Restated Guaranty made February 1, 2002      (16)
           by Bingham in favor of the Operating Partnership

  10.59    Investment Agreement dated July 20, 2001 between SUI     (16)
           TRS, Inc., Shiffman Family LLC, Bingham and Woodward
           Holdings, LLC, amended by Amendment to Investment
           Agreement dated August 13, 2001

  10.60    Limited Liability Company Agreement of Origen            (16)
           Financial, L.L.C. dated December 18, 2001 by and
           among SUI TRS, Inc., Shiffman Family LLC, Bingham and
           Woodward Holdings LLC

  10.61    Participation Agreement dated February 28, 2002          (16)
           between the Operating Partnership and Woodward
           Holdings, LLC

   12.1    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and    (16)
           Ratio Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and
           Preferred Dividends

     21    List of Subsidiaries of Sun Communities, Inc.            (16)

     23    Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent       (16)
           accountants
</TABLE>

- ---------------------

      (1)   Incorporated by reference to Sun Communities, Inc.'s Registration
            Statement No. 33-69340.

      (2)   Incorporated by reference to Sun Communities, Inc.'s Current Report
            en Form 8-K dated March 20, 1996.

      (3)   Incorporated by reference to Sun Communities, Inc.'s Annual Report
            on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.

      (4)   Incorporated by reference to Sun Communities, Inc.'s Current Report
            on Form 8-K dated April 24, 1996.

      (5)   Incorporated by reference to Sun Communities, Inc.'s Registration
            Statement No. 33-80972.


                                       39
<PAGE>
      (6)   Incorporated by reference to Sun Communities, Inc.'s Annual Report
            on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994.

      (7)   Incorporated by reference to Sun Communities, Inc.'s Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-K for the quarter ended September 30, 1995.

      (8)   Incorporated by reference to Sun Communities, Inc.'s Annual Report
            on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996.

      (9)   Incorporated by reference to Sun Communities, Inc.'s Annual Report
            on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.

      (10)  Incorporated by reference to Sun Communities, Inc.'s Current Report
            on Form 8-K dated April 24,1998.

      (11)  Incorporated by reference to Sun Communities, Inc.'s Annual Report
            on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998.

      (12)  Incorporated by reference to Sun Communities, Inc.'s Proxy
            Statement, dated April 20, 1999

      (13)  Incorporated by reference to Sun Communities, Inc.'s Current Report
            on Form 8-K dated October 14, 1999.

      (14)  Incorporated by reference to Sun Communities, Inc.'s Registration
            Statement on Form S-3, Amendment No. 1, No. 333-54718.

      (15)  Incorporated by reference to Sun Communities Operating Limited
            Partnership's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
            31, 2000, No. 333-2522-01.

      (16)  Filed herewith.

      #     Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to
            be identified by Form 10-K Item 14.


                                       40
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
INDEX TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         PAGES
<S>                                                               <C>
Report of Independent Accountants                                         F-2


Financial Statements:

   Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2001 and 2000           F-3

   Consolidated Statements of Income
       for the Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999               F-4

   Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
       for the Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999               F-5

   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
       for the Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999               F-6

   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                      F-7 - F-17

Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation           F-18 - F-22
</TABLE>


                                       F-1
<PAGE>
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Sun Communities, Inc.:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and of cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Sun
Communities, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") at December 31, 2001 and
December 31, 2000, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2001, in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to in the
index appearing under Item 14(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects,
the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Detroit, Michigan
February 19, 2002


                                      F-2
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
DECEMBER 31, 2001 AND 2000
(AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT FOR PER SHARE DATA)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                           ASSETS                              2001              2000
                           ------                              ----              ----
<S>                                                         <C>               <C>
Investment in rental property, net                          $ 813,334         $ 751,820
Cash and cash equivalents                                       4,587            18,466
Notes and other receivables                                   105,393           156,349
Investment in and advances to affiliates                       38,856             7,930
Other assets                                                   32,279            32,063
                                                            ---------         ---------

           Total assets                                     $ 994,449         $ 966,628
                                                            =========         =========

            LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Liabilities:
   Line of credit                                           $  93,000         $  12,000
   Debt                                                       402,198           452,508
   Accounts payable and accrued expenses                       17,683            16,304
   Deposits and other liabilities                               8,929             8,839
                                                            ---------         ---------

          Total liabilities                                   521,810           489,651
                                                            ---------         ---------

Minority interests                                            142,998           140,943
                                                            ---------         ---------

Stockholders' equity:
   Preferred stock, $.01 par value, 10,000 shares
       authorized, none issued                                     --                --
   Common stock, $.01 par value, 100,000 shares
       authorized, 17,763 and 17,516 issued and
       outstanding in 2001 and 2000, respectively                 178               175
   Paid-in capital                                            399,789           393,771
   Officers' notes                                            (11,004)          (11,257)
   Unearned compensation                                       (6,999)           (4,746)
   Distributions in excess of accumulated earnings            (45,939)          (41,688)
   Treasury stock, at cost, 201 and 7 shares in 2001
       and 2000, respectively                                  (6,384)             (221)
                                                            ---------         ---------
       Total stockholders' equity                             329,641           336,034
                                                            ---------         ---------

       Total liabilities and stockholders' equity           $ 994,449         $ 966,628
                                                            =========         =========
</TABLE>

         The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
                              financial statements.


                                      F-3
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999
(AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT FOR PER SHARE DATA)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                2001            2000            1999
                                                                ----            ----            ----
<S>                                                           <C>             <C>             <C>
REVENUES
 Income from property                                         $139,022        $132,440        $125,424
 Other income                                                   14,532          14,105           9,530
                                                              --------        --------        --------

   Total revenues                                              153,554         146,545         134,954
                                                              --------        --------        --------

EXPENSES
   Property operating and maintenance                           29,154          28,592          27,300
   Real estate taxes                                             9,524           9,115           8,888
   Property management                                           2,746           2,934           2,638
   General and administrative                                    4,627           4,079           3,682
   Depreciation and amortization                                33,516          30,671          28,551
   Interest                                                     31,016          29,651          27,289
                                                              --------        --------        --------

   Total expenses                                              110,583         105,042          98,348
                                                              --------        --------        --------

Income before gain from property dispositions, net and
 minority interests                                             42,971          41,503          36,606
Gain from property dispositions, net                             4,275           4,801             829
                                                              --------        --------        --------

Income before minority interests                                47,246          46,304          37,435

Less income allocated to minority interests:
   Preferred OP Units                                            8,131           7,826           3,663
   Common OP Units                                               5,205           5,184           4,683
                                                              --------        --------        --------

Net income                                                    $ 33,910        $ 33,294        $ 29,089
                                                              ========        ========        ========

Earnings per common share:
   Basic                                                      $   1.96        $   1.92        $   1.69
                                                              ========        ========        ========
   Diluted                                                    $   1.94        $   1.91        $   1.68
                                                              ========        ========        ========

Weighted average common shares outstanding:
   Basic                                                        17,258          17,304          17,191
                                                              ========        ========        ========
   Diluted                                                      17,440          17,390          17,343
                                                              ========        ========        ========
</TABLE>

         The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
                              financial statements.


                                      F-4
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999
(AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT FOR PER SHARE DATA)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                              Distribution
                                          Common          Paid in          Unearned           in Excess of          Treasury
                                           Stock          Capital        Compensation           Earnings              Stock
                                           -----          -------        ------------           --------              -----
<S>                                       <C>             <C>            <C>                  <C>                   <C>
Balance, January 1, 1999..............    $  172          $389,448        $   (5,302)           $ (32,345)
Issuance of common stock, net.........         2             1,595              (157)
Reclassification and conversion of ...
  minority interests..................                       2,317
Net income............................                                                             29,089
Cash distributions declared of $2.02..
  per share...........................                                                            (35,009)
                                          ------          --------        ----------            ---------
Balance, December 31, 1999............       174           393,360            (5,459)             (38,265)
Issuance of common stock, net.........         1               445
Amortization..........................                                           713
Treasury stock purchased, 7 shares....                                                                               $  (221)
Reclassification and conversion of ...
  minority interests..................                         (34)
Net income............................                                                             33,294
Cash distributions declared of $2.10..
  per share...........................                                                            (36,717)
                                          ------          --------        ----------            ---------            -------
Balance, December 31, 2000............       175           393,771            (4,746)             (41,688)              (221)
Issuance of common stock, net.........         3             4,077            (3,188)
Amortization..........................                                           935
Treasury stock purchased, 194 shares..                                                                                (6,163)
Reclassification and conversion of....
  minority interests..................                       1,941
Net income............................                                                             33,910
Cash distributions declared of $2.18..
  per share...........................                                                            (38,161)
                                          ------          --------        ----------            ---------            -------
Balance, December 31, 2001............    $  178          $399,789        $   (6,999)           $ (45,939)           $(6,384)
                                          ======          ========        ==========            =========            =======
</TABLE>


         The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
                              financial statements.



                                      F-5
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999
(AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          2001              2000             1999
                                                                          ----              ----             ----
<S>                                                                     <C>              <C>               <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
  Net income                                                            $ 33,910         $  33,294         $ 29,089
    Adjustments to reconcile net income to
       cash provided by operating activities:
    Income allocated to minority interests                                 5,205             5,184            4,683
    Gain from property dispositions, net                                  (4,275)           (4,801)          (1,781)
    Depreciation and amortization                                         33,516            30,671           28,551
    Amortization of deferred financing costs                               1,065               943              865
  Increase in other assets                                                (4,879)           (7,480)          (9,329)
  Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and other liabilities            1,329            (1,133)           1,616
                                                                        --------         ---------         --------
  Net cash provided by operating activities                               65,871            56,678           53,694
                                                                        --------         ---------         --------

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
  Investment in rental properties                                        (70,331)          (57,832)         (67,588)
  Proceeds related to property dispositions                               17,331            34,460           36,720
  Investment in notes receivable, net                                     37,968           (46,577)         (52,218)
  Investment in and advances to affiliates                               (20,056)              675            2,854
  Officers' notes                                                            253               195              157
                                                                        --------         ---------         --------
    Net cash used in investing activities                                (34,835)          (69,079)         (80,075)
                                                                        --------         ---------         --------

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
  Net proceeds from issuance of common stock and operating
    partnership units,  net                                                  809               430           51,019
  Treasury stock purchases                                                (6,163)             (221)              --
  Borrowings (repayments) on line of credit, net                          81,000           (35,000)          21,000
  Proceeds from notes payable and other debt                                  --           100,000               --
  Repayments on notes payable and other debt                             (76,599)           (2,056)          (1,741)
  Payments for deferred financing costs                                       --            (1,242)          (1,533)
  Distributions                                                          (43,962)          (42,374)         (40,622)
                                                                        --------         ---------         --------
    Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities                  (44,915)           19,537           28,123
                                                                        --------         ---------         --------
  Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                   (13,879)            7,136            1,742
  Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year                            18,466            11,330            9,588
                                                                        --------         ---------         --------
  Cash and cash equivalents, end of year                                $  4,587         $  18,466         $ 11,330
                                                                        ========         =========         ========

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
  Cash paid for interest including capitalized amounts of $3,704
    $3,148 and $2,230 in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively              $ 34,048         $  31,882         $ 28,422
  Noncash investing and financing activities:
    Debt assumed for rental properties                                    26,289                --           10,445
    Capitalized lease obligations for rental properties .                     --                --           10,605
    Property acquired through the exchange of similar property                --                --            7,700
    Common stock issued as unearned compensation, net                      3,188                --              720
    Property acquired (sold) in satisfaction of note receivable            1,338            (8,614)           4,400
    Issuance of partnership units for rental properties .                  4,612             3,564               --
    Notes receivable reclassified to advances to affiliate                11,210                --               --
</TABLE>

               The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
                       consolidated financial statements.


                                      F-6
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999

1.    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

      a.    BUSINESS: Sun Communities, Inc. (the "Company") is a real estate
            investment trust ("REIT") which owns and operates or finances 116
            manufactured housing communities located in 15 states concentrated
            principally in the Midwest and Southeast comprising approximately
            40,544 developed sites and approximately 4,385 sites suitable for
            development.

            The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
            accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
            and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
            liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at
            the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
            revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results
            could differ from those estimates.

      b.    PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION: The accompanying financial statements
            include the accounts of the Company and all majority-owned and
            controlled subsidiaries including Sun Communities Operating Limited
            Partnership (the "Operating Partnership"). The minority interests
            include Common Operating Partnership Units ("OP Units") which are
            convertible into an equivalent number of shares of the Company's
            common stock. Such conversion would have no effect on earnings per
            share since the allocation of earnings to an OP Unit is equivalent
            to earnings allocated to a share of common stock. Of the 20.2
            million OP Units outstanding at December 31, 2001, the Company owns
            17.6 million or 87.1 percent. The minority interests are adjusted to
            their relative ownership interest whenever OP Units or common stock
            are issued, converted or retired by reclassification to/from paid-in
            capital.

            Included in minority interests at December 31, 2001 and 2000 are 2
            million Series A Perpetual Preferred OP Units ("PPOP Units") issued
            at $25 per unit in September 1999 bearing an annual coupon rate of
            8.875 percent. The PPOP Units may be called by the Company at par on
            or after September 29, 2004, have no stated maturity or mandatory
            redemption and are convertible into preferred stock under certain
            circumstances.

            The terms of the 1.3 million Preferred OP Units ("POP Units") also
            included in minority interests and issued at $27 were renegotiated
            effective December 31, 2001. The conversion price increased to at
            least $68 per unit and the annual coupon rate was decreased from 9.0
            percent to 7.0 percent for the first two years followed by a
            variable rate ranging from 6.5 percent to 8.5 percent with mandatory
            redemption on January 2, 2014.

            An additional $8.2 million of POP units are included in minority
            interests at December 31, 2001 with dividends at rates ranging from
            6.85 percent to 9.19 percent and maturing between 2003 and 2012.


                                      F-7
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999

1.    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED):

      c.    RENTAL PROPERTY: Rental property is recorded at cost, less
            accumulated depreciation. Management evaluates the recoverability of
            its investment in rental property whenever events or changes in
            circumstances such as recent operating results, expected net
            operating cash flow and plans for future operations indicate that
            full asset recoverability is questionable. Recoverability of these
            assets is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of such
            assets to the future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be
            generated by the assets. If such assets were deemed to be impaired
            as a result of this measurement, the impairment that would be
            recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of
            the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset as determined on a
            discounted net cash flow basis.

            In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB")
            issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144,
            "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."
            The provisions of this SFAS 144 are effective for financial
            statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
            2001. The Company does not expect a material impact from the
            adoption of this standard.

            Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated
            useful lives of the assets. Useful lives are 30 years for land
            improvements and buildings and 7 to 15 years for furniture, fixtures
            and equipment.

            Expenditures for ordinary maintenance and repairs are charged to
            operations as incurred and significant renovations and improvements,
            which improve and/or extend the useful life of the asset, are
            capitalized and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
            Construction costs related to new community or expansion sites
            development including interest are capitalized until the property is
            substantially complete.

      d.    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS: The Company considers all highly liquid
            investments with an initial maturity of three months or less to be
            cash and cash equivalents.

      e.    NOTES RECEIVABLE: The Company evaluates the recoverability of its
            notes receivable whenever events occur or there are changes in
            circumstances such that management believes it is probable that it
            will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the
            contractual terms of the loan agreement. The loan is then measured
            based on the present value of the expected future cash flow
            discounted at the loan's effective interest rate or the fair value
            of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent.


                                      F-8
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999

1.    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED):

      f.    INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO AFFILIATES: Sun Home Services ("SHS")
            provides home sales and other services to current and prospective
            tenants. Through the Operating Partnership, the Company owns one
            hundred percent (100%) of the outstanding preferred stock of SHS, is
            entitled to ninety-five percent (95%) of the operating cash flow,
            and accounts for its investment utilizing the equity method of
            accounting. The common stock is owned by one officer of the Company
            and the estate of a former officer of the Company who collectively
            are entitled to receive five percent (5%) of the operating cash
            flow.

            Bingham Financial Services Corporation ("BFSC") was formed by Sun in
            1997 in response to demand for financing from purchasers and
            residents in the Company's communities. As BFSC's business
            developed, its objectives and opportunities expanded and the Company
            concluded that its business could be operated and grown more
            effectively as a separate public entity. BFSC's initial public
            offering occurred in November 1997. The Company has continued to
            provide financial support to BFSC. In December 2001, the Company,
            through SHS, made a $15 million equity investment in a newly formed
            company Origen Financial, L.L.C., that will merge with Origen
            Financial, Inc., subsidiary of BFSC, as part of the recapitalization
            of BFSC. As a result of this equity investment, the Company will own
            approximately a thirty percent (30%) interest in the surviving
            company ("Origen"), which company will hold all of the operating
            assets of BFSC and its subsidiaries. BFSC owns approximately a
            twenty percent (20%) interest in Origen and the Company (together
            with the other investors in Origen) has the right to purchase its
            pro-rata share of BFSC's interest in Origen at fair value as
            determined by an independent nationally recognized investment
            banking firm's application of generally accepted valuation
            methodologies at any time between the third and fifth anniversaries
            of the closing date of the Company's investment in Origen.
            Coincident with the recapitalization of BFSC, Gary A. Shiffman,
            Sun's Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, invested on
            behalf of himself and his family $5 million in Origen and holds
            approximately a ten percent (10%) interest in Origen. An unrelated
            third party also invested $20 million all on the same terms as the
            Company and Mr. Shiffman. Mr. Shiffman and Arthur A. Weiss, the
            Company's legal counsel, are directors of BFSC and Sun and Mr.
            Shiffman currently serves as Chairman of both companies.

            Additionally, the Company (together with the unrelated third party)
            provides financing to Origen and is subject to the risks of being a
            lender. These risks include the risks relating to borrower
            delinquency and default and the adequacy of the collateral for such
            loans. This financing consists of a $21.25 million standby line of
            credit of which the Company's commitment is $12.5 million ($11.2
            million was outstanding as of December 31, 2001), bearing interest
            at a per annum rate equal to 700 basis points over LIBOR, with a
            minimum interest rate of 11 percent and a maximum interest rate of
            15 percent. This line of credit is collateralized by a security
            interest in Origen's assets, which is subordinate in all respects to
            all institutional indebtedness of Origen, and a guaranty and pledge
            of assets by Bingham. Under the participation agreement, each lender
            participates pari passu in all proceeds from the line of credit,
            provided that, if additional funds in excess of $17.5 million are
            loaned to Origen and both lenders do not participate therein, such
            additional amounts funded will be subordinate in all respects to all
            indebtedness of Origen in which both lenders have participated.


                                      F-9
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999

1.    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED):

      f.    INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO AFFILIATES (CONTINUED):

            Summarized combined financial information of the Company's equity
            investments presented before elimination of intercompany
            transactions follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              2001                2000
                                                              ----                ----
<S>                                                        <C>                  <C>
                  Loans receivable, net ...........        $ 127,412            $     --
                  SHS assets ......................           35,545              14,364
                  Other assets ....................           30,580                  --
                                                           ---------            --------
                       Total assets ...............        $ 193,537            $ 14,364
                                                           =========            ========
                  Advances under

                     repurchase agreements ........        $ 105,564            $     --
                  Debt payable to the Company .....           39,729               7,242
                  Other liabilities ...............           29,592               7,657
                                                           ---------            --------
                       Total liabilities ..........          174,885              14,899
                  Equity (deficit) ................           18,652                (535)
                                                           ---------            --------
                       Total liabilities and equity        $ 193,537            $ 14,364
                                                           =========            ========

                  Revenues ........................        $  27,731(1)         $ 24,500
                  Expenses ........................           28,788(1)           25,539
                                                           ---------            --------
                  Net loss ........................        $  (1,057)           $ (1,039)
                                                           =========            ========
</TABLE>

      (1)   Includes Origen's financial data for the period from December 19,
            2001 to December 31, 2001.

g.    REVENUE RECOGNITION: Rental income attributable to leases is recorded on a
      straight-line basis when earned from tenants. Leases entered into by
      tenants generally range from month-to-month to one year and are renewable
      by mutual agreement of the Company and resident or, in some cases, as
      provided by state statute.

h.    FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: The carrying value of financial
      instruments which includes cash and cash investments, mortgages and notes
      receivable and debt approximates fair value. Fair values have been
      determined through information obtained from market sources and management
      estimates.

i.    RECLASSIFICATIONS: Certain 2000 and 1999 amounts have been reclassified to
      conform with the 2001 financial statement presentation. Such
      reclassifications had no effect on results of operations as originally
      presented.


                                      F-10
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999

2.    RENTAL PROPERTY (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          AT DECEMBER 31
                                                                          --------------
                                                                        2001         2000
                                                                        ----         ----
<S>                                                                   <C>          <C>
   Land........................................................       $ 82,326     $ 76,120
   Land improvements and buildings.............................        818,043      739,858
   Furniture, fixtures, and equipment .........................         20,700       17,498
   Land held for future development............................         16,810       12,042
   Property under development..................................         15,777       21,859
                                                                      --------     --------
                                                                       953,656      867,377
        Less accumulated depreciation..........................       (140,322)    (115,557)
                                                                      --------     --------
                                                                      $813,334     $751,820
                                                                      ========     ========
</TABLE>

      Land improvements and buildings consist primarily of infrastructure,
      roads, landscaping, clubhouses, maintenance buildings and amenities.
      Included in rental property at December 31, 2001 and 2000 are net carrying
      amounts related to capitalized leases of $28.6 million and $39.7 million,
      respectively.

      During 2001, the Company acquired five communities comprising 2,332
      developed sites for $55.8 million and two development communities
      comprising 1,273 sites, for $4.3 million. During 2000, the Company
      acquired three manufactured housing communities comprising 659 developed
      sites for $21.1 million. These transactions have been accounted for as
      purchases, and the statements of income include the operations of the
      acquired communities from the dates of their respective acquisitions. As
      of December 31, 2001, in conjunction with a 1993 acquisition, the Company
      is obligated to issue $8.2 million of OP Units through 2009 based on the
      per share market value of the Company's stock on the issuance date. This
      obligation was accounted for as part of the purchase price of the original
      acquisition.


                                      F-11
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999

3.    NOTES AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                               AT DECEMBER 31
                                                                                               --------------
                                                                                            2001            2000
                                                                                            ----            ----
<S>                                                                                        <C>             <C>
         Mortgage and other notes receivable, primarily with minimum monthly
             interest payments at LIBOR based floating rates of approximately LIBOR
             + 3.0%, maturing at various dates from January 2002 through June 2012,
             substantially collateralized by manufactured home communities ........        $ 77,424        $ 71,775

         Installment loans on manufactured homes with interest
             payable monthly at a weighted average interest rate
             and maturity of 8.5% and 20 years, respectively ......................          13,474          32,426

         Other receivables ........................................................          14,495          12,299

         BFSC related receivables .................................................              --          39,849
                                                                                           --------        --------

                                                                                           $105,393        $156,349
                                                                                           ========        ========
</TABLE>

      At December 31, 2001, the maturities of mortgage notes and other
      receivables are approximately as follows: 2002 - $40.7 million; 2003 -
      $13.1 million; 2004 - $3.5 million; 2005 and after - $20.1 million.

      Officers' notes, presented as a reduction to stockholders' equity in the
      balance sheet, are 10 year, LIBOR + 1.75% notes, with a minimum and
      maximum interest rate of 6% and 9%, respectively, collateralized by
      364,206 shares of the Company's common stock and 127,794 OP Units with
      substantial personal recourse. Interest income of $0.9 million, $0.9
      million and $0.8 million has been recognized in 2001, 2000 and 1999,
      respectively.


                                      F-12
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999

4.    DEBT (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                         AT DECEMBER 31
                                                                                         --------------
                                                                                      2001            2000
                                                                                      ----            ----
<S>                                                                                <C>             <C>
         Collateralized term loan, interest at 7.01%, due September 9, 2007        $ 42,820        $ 43,393
         Senior notes, interest at 7.625%, due May 1, 2003 ................          85,000          85,000
         Senior notes, interest at 6.97%, due December 3, 2007 ............          35,000          35,000
         Senior notes, interest at 8.20%, due August 15, 2008 .............         100,000         100,000
         Senior notes, interest at 6.77%, due May 14, 2015,
             callable/redeemable May 16, 2005 .............................          65,000          65,000
         Senior notes, interest at 7.375%, paid in May 1, 2001 ............              --          65,000
         Capitalized lease obligations, interest at 6.1%,
             due through December 2003 ....................................          26,045          36,009
         Mortgage notes, other ............................................          48,333          23,106
                                                                                   --------        --------

                                                                                   $402,198        $452,508
                                                                                   ========        ========
</TABLE>

   The Company has a $150 million unsecured line of credit at LIBOR plus 1.0%
   maturing in January 2003, of which $57 million was available at December 31,
   2001. The average interest rate of outstanding borrowings at December 31,
   2001 was 3.22%.

   The term loan is collateralized by seven communities comprising approximately
   3,400 sites. The capitalized lease obligations and mortgage notes are
   collateralized by eleven communities comprising approximately 4,440 sites. At
   the lease expiration date of the capitalized leases the Company has the right
   and intends to purchase the properties for the amount of the then outstanding
   lease obligation. Annual payments under these capitalized lease obligations
   are $2.1 million in 2002 and $0.8 million in 2003.

   At December 31, 2001, the maturities of debt, excluding the line of credit,
   during the next five years are approximately as follows: 2002 - $17.6
   million; 2003 - $86.7 million; 2004 - $12.2 million; 2005 - $1.6 million; and
   2006 - $7.9 million.

   The Company is the guarantor of $23.2 million in personal bank loans maturing
   in 2004, made to directors, employees and consultants to purchase Company
   common stock and OP Units pursuant to the Company's Stock Purchase Plan. No
   compensation expense was recognized in respect to the guarantees as the fair
   value thereof was not material nor have there been any defaults.


                                      F-13
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED
DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999

5.    STOCK OPTIONS):

      Data pertaining to stock option plans are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      2001               2000             1999
                                                      ----               ----             ----
<S>                                              <C>                 <C>              <C>
         Options outstanding, January 1 .            1,109,250           1,121,000        1,055,600
         Options granted ................              137,900              17,500          102,000
         Option price ...................        $27.03-$32.81              $35.37    $30.03-$32.96
         Options exercised ..............               59,773              16,667           35,099
         Option price ...................        $22.75-$33.75       $28.64-$30.03    $22.75-$33.75
         Options forfeited ..............               96,583              12,583            1,501
         Option price ...................        $27.03-$33.82       $30.03-$33.75           $33.75
         Options outstanding, December 31            1,090,794(a)        1,109,250        1,121,000
         Option price ...................           $20-$35.39          $20-$35.39       $20-$35.39
         Options exercisable, December 31              823,227(a)          827,329          709,811
</TABLE>


(a)   There are 365,675 and 279,409 options outstanding and exercisable,
      respectively, which range from $20.00 - $27.99 with a weighted average
      life of 5.1 years related to the outstanding options. The weighted average
      exercise price for these outstanding and exercisable options is $24.33 and
      $23.50, respectively. There are 725,119 and 543,868 options outstanding
      and exercisable, respectively, which range from $28.00 - $35.39 with a
      weighted average life of 4.3 years related to the outstanding options. The
      weighted average exercise price for these outstanding and exercisable
      options is $30.89 and $30.24, respectively.

      At December 31, 2001, 369,764 shares of common stock were available for
      the granting of options. Stock option plans originally provided for the
      grant of up to 2,117,000 options. Options are granted at fair value and
      generally vest over a two-year period and may be exercised for 10 years
      after date of grant. In addition, the Company established a Long-Term
      Incentive Plan in 1997 for certain employees granting 168,000 options,
      which become exercisable in equal installments in 2002-2004.

      The Company has opted to measure compensation cost utilizing the intrinsic
      value method. The fair value of each option grant was estimated as of the
      date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the
      following assumptions for options granted:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 2001             2000             1999
                                                                                 ----             ----             ----
<S>                                                                           <C>              <C>              <C>
         Estimated fair value per share of options granted during year        $   6.19         $   2.43         $   2.43

         Assumptions:
         Annualized dividend yield ...................................             5.9%             7.1%             7.1%
         Common stock price volatility ...............................            16.4%            15.3%            15.3%
         Risk-free rate of return ....................................             5.3%             6.4%             6.4%
         Expected option term (in years) .............................               4                6                6
</TABLE>

      If compensation cost for stock option grants had been recognized based on
      the fair value at the grant date, this would have resulted in net income
      of $33.6 million, $33.1 million and $28.8 million and basic net income per
      share of $1.95, $1.91and $1.68 in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.


                                      F-14
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999

6.    STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY:

      In April 1998, the Company declared a dividend of one Preferred Stock
      Purchase Right (Right) for each outstanding share of common stock. The
      Rights are not presently exercisable. Each Right entitles the holder, upon
      the occurrence of certain specified events, including a material change in
      the ownership of the Company, to purchase preferred stock and common
      stock, from the Company and/or from another person into which the Company
      is merged or which acquires control of the Company.

      The Rights, which were not given dividend accounting recognition due to
      the amount involved, may be generally redeemed by the Company at a price
      of $0.01 per Right or $0.2 million in total. The Rights expire on June 8,
      2008.

      In March 2001 and December 1999, the Company issued additional restricted
      stock awards of 99,422 at $33.00 per share and 24,750 at $30.00 per share
      respectively, to officers and certain employees which are being amortized
      over their five to ten year vesting period. Compensation cost recognized
      in income for all restricted stock awards was $0.9 million, $0.7 million
      and $0.6 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

7.    OTHER INCOME (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS):

      The components of other income are as follows for the years ended December
      31, 2001, 2000 and 1999:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        2001           2000          1999
                                        ----           ----          ----
<S>                                   <C>            <C>            <C>
         Interest income .....        $10,706        $ 9,385        $6,345
         Income from affiliate            131            607         1,726
         Other income ........          3,695          4,113         1,459
                                      -------        -------        ------
                                      $14,532        $14,105        $9,530
                                      =======        =======        ======
</TABLE>

8.    INCOME TAXES (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS):

      The Company has elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust
      ("REIT") as defined under Section 856(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of
      1986, as amended. In order for the Company to qualify as a REIT, at least
      ninety-five percent (95%) of the Company's gross income in any year must
      be derived from qualifying sources.

      As a REIT, the Company generally will not be subject to U.S. Federal
      income taxes at the corporate level if it distributes at least ninety
      percent (90%) of its REIT ordinary taxable income to its stockholders.
      REIT's are also subject to a number of other organizational and
      operational requirements. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any
      taxable year, its taxable income will be subject to U.S. Federal income
      tax at regular corporate rates (including any applicable alternative
      minimum tax). Even if the Company qualifies as a REIT, it may be subject
      to certain state and local income taxes and to U.S. Federal income and
      excise taxes on its undistributed income.


                                      F-15
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999

8. INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)(AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS):

   Dividend payout on taxable income available to common stockholders:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              2001             2000             1999
                                                              ----             ----             ----
<S>                                                         <C>              <C>              <C>
         Taxable income available to
           common stockholders .....................        $ 13,149         $ 14,683         $ 14,681
         Less tax gain on disposition of properties             (175)             (13)          (5,943)
                                                            --------         --------         --------
         Taxable operating income available to
           common stockholders .....................        $ 12,974         $ 14,670         $  8,738
                                                            ========         ========         ========

         Total dividends paid to common stockholders        $ 38,161         $ 36,717         $ 35,009
                                                            ========         ========         ========
</TABLE>


      For income tax purposes, distributions paid to common stockholders consist
      of ordinary income, capital gains, and return of capital. For the years
      ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, distributions paid per share were
      taxable as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           2001                            2000                            1999
                                           ----                            ----                            ----
                                   AMOUNT        PERCENTAGE       AMOUNT         PERCENTAGE        AMOUNT        PERCENTAGE
                                   ------        ----------       ------         ----------        ------        ----------
<S>                               <C>            <C>              <C>            <C>              <C>            <C>
         Ordinary income .        $  1.38            63.1%        $  1.30            62.0%        $  1.29            64.0%
         Return of capital            .80            36.9             .80            38.0             .39            19.4
         Capital gains ...             --              --              --              --             .28            13.6
         Unrecaptured
         SEC. 1250 gain ..             --              --              --              --             .06             3.0
                                  -------         -------         -------         -------         -------         -------
                                  $  2.18           100.0%        $  2.10           100.0%        $  2.02           100.0%
                                  =======         =======         =======         =======         =======         =======
</TABLE>

9.    EARNINGS PER SHARE (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 2001           2000           1999
                                                                 ----           ----           ----
<S>                                                            <C>            <C>            <C>
         Earnings used for basic and diluted earnings
           per share computation ......................        $33,910        $33,294        $29,089
                                                               =======        =======        =======

         Total shares used for basic earnings per share         17,258         17,304         17,191
         Dilutive securities:
           Stock options and other ....................            182             86            152
                                                               -------        -------        -------
         Total weighted average shares used for diluted
           earnings per share computation .............         17,440         17,390         17,343
                                                               =======        =======        =======
</TABLE>

      Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution that would occur
      if dilutive securities were exercised or converted into common stock.


                                      F-16
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999

10.   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED):

      The following unaudited quarterly amounts are in thousands, except for per
      share amounts:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           FIRST           SECOND         THIRD          FOURTH
                                                           QUARTER         QUARTER       QUARTER         QUARTER
                                                           MARCH 31        JUNE 30       SEPT. 30        DEC. 31
                                                           --------        -------       --------        -------
<S>                                                        <C>             <C>           <C>             <C>
         2001
         Total revenues ............................        $39,091        $38,148        $38,309        $38,006
         Operating income (a) ......................        $27,498        $26,987        $26,553        $26,465
         Income before other, net and allocation
           to minority interests ...................        $11,264        $10,885        $11,149        $ 9,673
         Net income (b) ............................        $11,104        $ 8,320        $ 7,877        $ 6,609
         Weighted average common shares outstanding          17,365         17,203         17,210         17,256
         Earnings per common share-basic ...........        $  0.64        $  0.48        $  0.46        $  0.38
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            FIRST           SECOND        THIRD          FOURTH
                                                           QUARTER         QUARTER       QUARTER         QUARTER
                                                           MARCH 31        JUNE 30       SEPT. 30        DEC. 31
                                                           --------        -------       --------        -------
<S>                                                        <C>             <C>           <C>             <C>
         2000
         Total revenues ............................        $36,033        $36,064        $37,013        $37,435
         Operating income (a) ......................        $24,823        $25,380        $25,549        $26,073
         Income before other, net and allocation
           to minority interests ...................        $10,430        $10,396        $10,200        $10,477
         Net income (b) ............................        $ 7,357        $ 7,305        $11,117        $ 7,515
         Weighted average common shares outstanding          17,286         17,310         17,312         17,308
         Earnings per common share-basic ...........        $  0.43        $  0.42        $  0.64        $  0.43
</TABLE>

(a)   Operating income is defined as total revenues less property operating and
      maintenance expense, real estate tax expense, property management and
      general and administrative expenses. Operating income is a measure of the
      performance of the operations of the properties before the effects of
      depreciation, amortization and interest expense. Operating income is not
      necessarily an indication of the performance of the Company or a measure
      of liquidity.

(b)   Net income includes net gains on the disposition of properties of $3,517
      in the first quarter of 2001, $758 in the second quarter of 2001, $4,619
      in the third quarter of 2000 and $182 in the fourth quarter of 2000.


                                      F-17
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION, CONTINUED                 SCHEDULE III
DECEMBER 31, 2001

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(AMOUNT IN THOUSANDS)                                                                         COST CAPITALIZED
                                                                                                SUBSEQUENT TO
                                                                       INITIAL COST              ACQUISITION
                                                                        TO COMPANY               IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                    --------------------     ---------------------
                                                                                BUILDING                  BUILDING
                                                                                  AND                       AND
PROPERTY NAME                       LOCATION         ENCUMBRANCE      LAND      FIXTURES      LAND        FIXTURES
- -------------                       --------         -----------      ----      --------      ----        --------
<S>                             <C>                  <C>            <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
Academy/Westpoint               Canton, MI                   -      $ 1,485     $ 14,278           -          $ 34
Allendale                       Allendale, MI                -          372        3,684           -         3,542
Alpine                          Grand Rapids, MI             -          729        6,692           -         3,431
Apple Creek                     Amelia, OH              (3)             543        5,480           -            70
Arbor Terrace                   Brandenton, FL               -          481        4,410           -           275
Ariana Village                  Lakeland, FL                 -          240        2,195           -           467
Autumn Ridge                    Ankeny, IO                   -          890        8,054           -           776
Bedford Hills                   Battle Creek, MI        (1)           1,265       11,562           -           385
Bell Crossing                   Clarksville, TN              -          717        1,916           -         2,796
Bonita Lake                     Bonita Springs, FL           -          285        2,641           -           166
Boulder Ridge                   Pflugerville, TX             -        1,000          500     $ 3,324        11,890
Branch Creek                    Austin, TX                   -          796        3,716           -         4,419
Brentwood                       Kentwood, MI                 -          385        3,592           -           214
Byrne Hill Village              Toledo, OH                   -          383        3,903           -           168
Brookside Village               Goshen, IN                   -          260        1,080         386         7,236
Buttonwood Bay                  Sebring, IN             13,789(8)     1,952       18,294           -             -
Byron Center                    Byron Center, MI             -          253        2,402           -           143
Country Acres                   Cadillac, MI                 -          380        3,495           -           220
Candlewick Court                Owosso, MI                   -          125        1,900         132         1,026
Carrington Pointe               Ft. Wayne, IN                -        1,076        3,632           -         3,787
Casa Del Valle                  Alamo, TX                    -          246        2,316           -           373
Catalina                        Middletown, OH               -          653        5,858           -           713
Candlelight Village             Chicago Heights, IL          -          600        5,623           -           550
Chisholm Point                  Pflugerville, TX             -          609        5,286           -         1,775
Clearwater Village              South Bend, IN               -           80        1,270          61         1,838
Country Meadows                 Flat Rock, MI                -          924        7,583         296         9,284
Continental North               Davison, MI                  -        (7)         (7)              -         3,555
Cobus Green                     Elkhart, IN                  -          762        7,037           -           609
College Park Estates            Canton, MI                   -           75          800         174         4,627
Continental Estates             Davison, MI                  -        1,625       16,581         150         1,299
Countryside Village             Perry, MI               (1)             275        3,920         185         1,990
Creekwood Meadows               Burton, MI                   -          808        2,043         404         6,317
Cutler Estates                  Grand Rapids, MI        (1)             749        6,941           -           233
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(AMOUNT IN THOUSANDS)
                                                         GROSS AMOUNT
                                                          CARRIED AT
                                                       DECEMBER 31, 2001
                                                     ---------------------
                                                                  BUILDING                                      DATE OF
                                                                    AND                      ACCUMULATED     CONSTRUCTION (C)
PROPERTY NAME                       LOCATION          LAND        FIXTURES       TOTAL       DEPRECIATION     ACQUISITION (A)
- -------------                       --------          ----        --------       -----       ------------     ---------------
<S>                             <C>                  <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>             <C>
Academy/Westpoint               Canton, MI           $ 1,485      $ 14,312     $ 15,797          $ 721            2000(A)
Allendale                       Allendale, MI            372         7,226        7,598          1,151            1996(A)
Alpine                          Grand Rapids, MI         729        10,123       10,852          1,569            1996(A)
Apple Creek                     Amelia, OH               543         5,550        6,093            436            1999(A)
Arbor Terrace                   Brandenton, FL           481         4,685        5,166            883            1996(A)
Ariana Village                  Lakeland, FL             240         2,662        2,902            653            1994(A)
Autumn Ridge                    Ankeny, IO               890         8,830        9,720          1,588            1996(A)
Bedford Hills                   Battle Creek, MI       1,265        11,947       13,212          2,227            1996(A)
Bell Crossing                   Clarksville, TN          717         4,712        5,429            256            1999(A)
Bonita Lake                     Bonita Springs, FL       285         2,807        3,092            522            1996(A)
Boulder Ridge                   Pflugerville, TX       4,324        12,390       16,714          1,144            1998(C)
Branch Creek                    Austin, TX               796         8,135        8,931          1,401            1995(A)
Brentwood                       Kentwood, MI             385         3,806        4,191            728            1996(A)
Byrne Hill Village              Toledo, OH               383         4,071        4,454            354            1999(A)
Brookside Village               Goshen, IN               646         8,316        8,962          1,563            1985(A)
Buttonwood Bay                  Sebring, IN            1,952        18,294       20,246            296            2001(A)
Byron Center                    Byron Center, MI         253         2,545        2,798            492            1996(A)
Country Acres                   Cadillac, MI             380         3,715        4,095            680            1996(A)
Candlewick Court                Owosso, MI               257         2,926        3,183            778            1985(A)
Carrington Pointe               Ft. Wayne, IN          1,076         7,419        8,495            889            1997(A)
Casa Del Valle                  Alamo, TX                246         2,689        2,935            437            1997(A)
Catalina                        Middletown, OH           653         6,571        7,224          1,753            1993(A)
Candlelight Village             Chicago Heights, IL      600         6,173        6,773          1,149            1996(A)
Chisholm Point                  Pflugerville, TX         609         7,061        7,670          1,398            1995(A)
Clearwater Village              South Bend, IN           141         3,108        3,249            689            1986(A)
Country Meadows                 Flat Rock, MI          1,220        16,867       18,087          3,385            1994(A)
Continental North               Davison, MI                -         3,555        3,555            225            1996(A)
Cobus Green                     Elkhart, IN              762         7,646        8,408          2,051            1993(A)
College Park Estates            Canton, MI               249         5,427        5,676          1,310            1978(A)
Continental Estates             Davison, MI            1,775        17,880       19,655          3,391            1996(A)
Countryside Village             Perry, MI                460         5,910        6,370          1,429            1987(A)
Creekwood Meadows               Burton, MI             1,212         8,360        9,572            924            1997(C)
Cutler Estates                  Grand Rapids, MI         749         7,174        7,923          1,337            1996(A)
</TABLE>


                                       F-18
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(AMOUNT IN THOUSANDS)                                                                           COST CAPITALIZED
                                                                                                  SUBSEQUENT TO
                                                                         INITIAL COST              ACQUISITION
                                                                          TO COMPANY               IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                      --------------------     ---------------------
                                                                                  BUILDING                  BUILDING
                                                                                    AND                       AND
PROPERTY NAME                       LOCATION           ENCUMBRANCE      LAND      FIXTURES      LAND        FIXTURES
- -------------                       --------           -----------      ----      --------      ----        --------
<S>                             <C>                    <C>            <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
Davison East                    Davison, MI                             (7)         (7)              -             -
Deerfield Run                   Anderson, MI               1,700          990        1,607           -         2,555
Desert View Village             West Wendover, NV              -        1,180            -         423         5,035
Eagle Crest                     Firestone, CO                  -        4,073          150         197        11,740
Edwardsville                    Edwardsville, KS          (1)             425        8,805         541         2,398
Fisherman's Cove                Flint, MI                      -          380        3,438           -           454
Forest Meadows                  Philomath, OR                  -        1,031        2,064           -            85
Four Seasons                    Elkhart, IN                    -          500        4,813           -            23
Goldcoaster                     Homestead, FL                  -          446        4,234         155         1,709
Grand                           Grand Rapids, MI               -          374        3,587           -           158
Groves                          Ft. Meyers, FL                 -          249        2,396           -           527
Hamlin                          Webberville, MI                -          125        1,675         536         1,849
Holly Forest                    Holly Hill, FL                 -          920        8,376           -           291
Holiday Village                 Elkhart, IN                    -          100        3,207         143         1,148
Indian Creek                    Ft. Meyers Beach, FL           -        3,832       34,660           -           976
Island Lake                     Merritt Island, FL             -          700        6,431           -           269
King's Court                    Traverse City, MI              -        1,473       13,782           -         1,291
Kensington Meadows              Lansing, MI                    -          250        2,699           -         3,457
King's Lake                     Debary, FL                     -          280        2,542           -         2,131
Knollwood Estates               Allendale, MI             (4)             400        4,101           -             -
King's Pointe                   Winter Haven, FL               -          262        2,359           -           431
Kenwood                         La Feria, TX                   -          145        1,857           -             3
Lafayette Place                 Warren, MI                     -          669        5,979           -           683
Lake Juliana                    Auburndale, FL                 -          335        2,848           -           772
Leesburg Landing                Leesburg, FL                   -           50          429         921           394
Liberty Farms                   Valparaiso, IN                 -           66        1,201         116         1,834
Lincoln Estates                 Holland, MI                    -          455        4,201           -           284
Lake San Marino                 Naples, FL                     -          650        5,760           -           371
Maple Grove Estates             Dorr, MI                       -           15          210          19           280
Meadowbrook Village             Tampa, FL                      -          519        4,728           -           351
Meadowbrook Estates             Monroe, MI                     -          431        3,320         379         5,808
Meadow Lake Estates             White Lake, MI                 -        1,188       11,498         126         1,688
Meadows                         Nappanee, IN                   -          287        2,300           -         2,281
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(AMOUNT IN THOUSANDS)
                                                           GROSS AMOUNT
                                                            CARRIED AT
                                                         DECEMBER 31, 2001
                                                       ---------------------
                                                                    BUILDING                                      DATE OF
                                                                      AND                      ACCUMULATED     CONSTRUCTION (C)
PROPERTY NAME                       LOCATION            LAND        FIXTURES       TOTAL       DEPRECIATION     ACQUISITION (A)
- -------------                       --------            ----        --------       -----       ------------     ---------------
<S>                             <C>                    <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>             <C>
Davison East                    Davison, MI                  -             -            -              -            1996(A)
Deerfield Run                   Anderson, MI               990         4,162        5,152            240            1999(A)
Desert View Village             West Wendover, NV        1,603         5,035        6,638            236            1998(C)
Eagle Crest                     Firestone, CO            4,270        11,890       16,160            194            1998(C)
Edwardsville                    Edwardsville, KS           966        11,203       12,169          2,824            1987(A)
Fisherman's Cove                Flint, MI                  380         3,892        4,272          1,037            1993(A)
Forest Meadows                  Philomath, OR            1,031         2,149        3,180            167            1999(A)
Four Seasons                    Elkhart, IN                500         4,836        5,336            247            2000(A)
Goldcoaster                     Homestead, FL              601         5,943        6,544            833            1997(A)
Grand                           Grand Rapids, MI           374         3,745        4,119            581            1996(A)
Groves                          Ft. Meyers, FL             249         2,923        3,172            546            1997(A)
Hamlin                          Webberville, MI            661         3,524        4,185            648            1984(A)
Holly Forest                    Holly Hill, FL             920         8,667        9,587          1,310            1997(A)
Holiday Village                 Elkhart, IN                243         4,355        4,598          1,173            1986(A)
Indian Creek                    Ft. Meyers Beach, FL     3,832        35,636       39,468          6,763            1996(A)
Island Lake                     Merritt Island, FL         700         6,700        7,400          1,472            1995(A)
King's Court                    Traverse City, MI        1,473        15,073       16,546          2,785            1996(A)
Kensington Meadows              Lansing, MI                250         6,156        6,406          1,047            1995(A)
King's Lake                     Debary, FL                 280         4,673        4,953            953            1994(A)
Knollwood Estates               Allendale, MI              400         4,101        4,501             67            2001(A)
King's Pointe                   Winter Haven, FL           262         2,790        3,052            694            1994(A)
Kenwood                         La Feria, TX               145         1,860        2,005            156            1999(A)
Lafayette Place                 Warren, MI                 669         6,662        7,331            797            1998(A)
Lake Juliana                    Auburndale, FL             335         3,620        3,955            865            1994(A)
Leesburg Landing                Leesburg, FL               971           823        1,794            147            1996(A)
Liberty Farms                   Valparaiso, IN             182         3,035        3,217            764            1985(A)
Lincoln Estates                 Holland, MI                455         4,485        4,940            844            1996(A)
Lake San Marino                 Naples, FL                 650         6,131        6,781          1,160            1996(A)
Maple Grove Estates             Dorr, MI                    34           490          524            126            1979(A)
Meadowbrook Village             Tampa, FL                  519         5,079        5,598          1,338            1994(A)
Meadowbrook Estates             Monroe, MI                 810         9,128        9,938          2,382            1986(A)
Meadow Lake Estates             White Lake, MI           1,314        13,186       14,500          3,396            1994(A)
Meadows                         Nappanee, IN               287         4,581        4,868          1,113            1987(A)
</TABLE>

                                       F-19
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(AMOUNT IN THOUSANDS)                                                                           COST CAPITALIZED
                                                                                                  SUBSEQUENT TO
                                                                         INITIAL COST              ACQUISITION
                                                                          TO COMPANY               IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                      --------------------     ---------------------
                                                                                  BUILDING                  BUILDING
                                                                                    AND                       AND
PROPERTY NAME                       LOCATION           ENCUMBRANCE      LAND      FIXTURES      LAND        FIXTURES
- -------------                       --------           -----------      ----      --------      ----        --------
<S>                             <C>                    <C>            <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
Meadowstream Village            Sodus, MI                      -          100        1,175         109         1,357
Maplewood Mobile                Lawrence, IN                   -          280        2,122           -           802
North Point Estates             Pueblo, CO                     -        1,582        3,027           -             -
Oakwood Village                 Miamisburg, OH                 -        1,964        6,401           -         5,640
Orange Tree                     Orange City, FL                -          283        2,530          15           714
Orchard Lake                    Milford, OH               (3)             395        4,025           -             6
Paradise                        Chicago Heights, IL            -          723        6,638           -           517
Pecan Branch                    Georgetown, TX                 -        1,379            -         331         3,291
Pine Hills                      Middlebury, IN                 -           72          544          60         1,681
Pin Oak Parc                    St. Louis, MO                  -        1,038        3,250         467         4,564
Pine Ridge                      Petersburg, VA                 -          405        2,397           -         1,189
Presidential                    Hudsonville, MI                -          680        6,314           -         1,105
Parkwood Mobile                 Grand Blanc, MI                -          477        4,279           -           670
Richmond                        Richmond, MI                   -          501        2,040           -           336
Roxbury                         Goshen, IN                     -        1,058        9,974           -             -
Royal Country                   Miami, FL                 (1)           2,290       20,758           -           691
River Haven                     Grand Haven, MI           (4)           1,800       17,121           -             -
Saddle Oak Club                 Ocala, FL                      -          730        6,743           -           623
Scio Farms                      Ann Arbor, MI                  -        2,300       22,659           -         3,445
Sherman Oaks                    Jackson, FL               (1)             200        2,400         240         3,930
Siesta Bay                      Ft. Meyers Beach, FL           -        2,051       18,549           -           602
Silver Star                     Orlando, FL                    -        1,022        9,306           -           367
Southfork                       Belton, MO                     -        1,000        9,011           -         1,093
Sunset Ridge                    Portland, MI                   -        2,044            -           -         7,241
St. Clair Place                 St. Clair, MI                  -          501        2,029           -           329
Stonebridge                     Richfield Twp., MI         1,119        2,044            -         180         1,725
Snow to Sun                     Weslaco, TX                   93          190        2,143          15           771
Sun Villa                       Reno, NV                   6,756        2,385       11,773           -           759
Timber Ridge                    Ft. Collins, CO                -          990        9,231           -           772
Timberbrook                     Bristol, IN               (1)             490        3,400         101         4,800
Timberline Estates              Grand Rapids, MI               -          536        4,867           -           569
Town and Country                Traverse City, MI              -          406        3,736           -           214
Valley Brook                    Indianapolis, IN               -          150        3,500       1,277         8,726
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(AMOUNT IN THOUSANDS)
                                                         GROSS AMOUNT
                                                          CARRIED AT
                                                       DECEMBER 31, 2001
                                                      --------------------
                                                                  BUILDING                                      DATE OF
                                                                    AND                      ACCUMULATED     CONSTRUCTION (C)
PROPERTY NAME                       LOCATION          LAND        FIXTURES       TOTAL       DEPRECIATION     ACQUISITION (A)
- -------------                       --------          ----        --------       -----       ------------     ---------------
<S>                             <C>                   <C>         <C>          <C>           <C>             <C>
Meadowstream Village            Sodus, MI                209         2,532        2,741            652            1984(A)
Maplewood Mobile                Lawrence, IN             280         2,924        3,204            746            1989(A)
North Point Estates             Pueblo, CO             1,582         3,027        4,609             59            2001(C)
Oakwood Village                 Miamisburg, OH         1,964        12,041       14,005          1,139            1998(A)
Orange Tree                     Orange City, FL          298         3,244        3,542            747            1994(A)
Orchard Lake                    Milford, OH              395         4,031        4,426            361            1999(A)
Paradise                        Chicago Heights, IL      723         7,155        7,878          1,321            1996(A)
Pecan Branch                    Georgetown, TX         1,710         3,291        5,001             52            1999(C)
Pine Hills                      Middlebury, IN           132         2,225        2,357            550            1980(A)
Pin Oak Parc                    St. Louis, MO          1,505         7,814        9,319          1,342            1994(A)
Pine Ridge                      Petersburg, VA           405         3,586        3,991            918            1986(A)
Presidential                    Hudsonville, MI          680         7,419        8,099          1,368            1996(A)
Parkwood Mobile                 Grand Blanc, MI          477         4,949        5,426          1,288            1993(A)
Richmond                        Richmond, MI             501         2,376        2,877            292            1998(A)
Roxbury                         Goshen, IN             1,058         9,974       11,032            166            2001(A)
Royal Country                   Miami, FL              2,290        21,449       23,739          5,767            1994(A)
River Haven                     Grand Haven, MI        1,800        17,121       18,921            298            2001(A)
Saddle Oak Club                 Ocala, FL                730         7,366        8,096          1,767            1995(A)
Scio Farms                      Ann Arbor, MI          2,300        26,104       28,404          5,465            1995(A)
Sherman Oaks                    Jackson, FL              440         6,330        6,770          1,532            1986(A)
Siesta Bay                      Ft. Meyers Beach, FL   2,051        19,151       21,202          3,623            1996(A)
Silver Star                     Orlando, FL            1,022         9,673       10,695          1,815            1996(A)
Southfork                       Belton, MO             1,000        10,104       11,104          1,187            1997(A)
Sunset Ridge                    Portland, MI           2,044         7,241        9,285            130            1998(C)
St. Clair Place                 St. Clair, MI            501         2,358        2,859            345            1998(A)
Stonebridge                     Richfield Twp., MI     2,224         1,725        3,949              -            1998(C)
Snow to Sun                     Weslaco, TX              205         2,914        3,119            439            1997(A)
Sun Villa                       Reno, NV               2,385        12,532       14,917          1,426            1998(A)
Timber Ridge                    Ft. Collins, CO          990        10,003       10,993          1,859            1996(A)
Timberbrook                     Bristol, IN              591         8,200        8,791          2,026            1987(A)
Timberline Estates              Grand Rapids, MI         536         5,436        5,972          1,350            1994(A)
Town and Country                Traverse City, MI        406         3,950        4,356            754            1996(A)
Valley Brook                    Indianapolis, IN       1,427        12,226       13,653          2,880            1989(A)
</TABLE>

                                      F-20
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(AMOUNT IN THOUSANDS)                                                                           COST CAPITALIZED
                                                                                                  SUBSEQUENT TO
                                                                         INITIAL COST              ACQUISITION
                                                                          TO COMPANY               IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                      --------------------     ---------------------
                                                                                  BUILDING                  BUILDING
                                                                                    AND                       AND
PROPERTY NAME                       LOCATION           ENCUMBRANCE      LAND      FIXTURES      LAND        FIXTURES
- -------------                       --------           -----------      ----      --------      ----        --------
<S>                             <C>                    <C>            <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
Village Trails                  Howard City, MI              183          988        1,472           -           658
Water Oak Country Club Est.     Lady Lake, FL                  -        2,503       17,478           -         3,281
Woodhaven Place                 Woodhaven, MI                  -          501        4,541           -           752
Woodland Park Estates           Eugene, OR                 7,545        1,593       14,398           -           264
Woodside Terrace                Holland, OH               (2)           1,064        9,625           -         1,413
West Glen Village               Indianapolis, IN               -        1,100       10,028           -           743
White Lake                      White Lake, MI                 -          673        6,179           -         3,535
White Oak                       Mt. Morris, MI                 -          782        7,245         112         3,350
Willowbrook                     Toledo, OH                (2)             781        7,054           -           367
Windham Hills                   Jackson, FL                    -        2,673        2,364           -         6,206
Woodlake Estates                Yoder, IN                      -          632        3,674           -         2,207
Woods Edge                      West Lafayette, IN             -          100        2,600           3         7,536
Worthington Arms                Delaware, OH                   -          376        2,624           -         1,107
Westbrook Senior                Toledo, OH                     -          355        3,295           -             -
Westbrook                       Toledo, OH                (2)           1,110       10,462           -           574
Corporate Headquarters          Farmington Hills, MI           -            -            -           -         6,030
                                                                      --------    ---------    --------     ---------
                                                                      $91,120     $ 628,922    $ 11,578     $ 222,036
                                                                      ========    =========    ========     =========
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(AMOUNT IN THOUSANDS)
                                                             GROSS AMOUNT
                                                              CARRIED AT
                                                           DECEMBER 31, 2001
                                                         ---------------------
                                                                      BUILDING                                       DATE OF
                                                                        AND                       ACCUMULATED     CONSTRUCTION (C)
PROPERTY NAME                       LOCATION              LAND        FIXTURES        TOTAL       DEPRECIATION     ACQUISITION (A)
- -------------                       --------              ----        --------        -----       ------------     ---------------
<S>                             <C>                      <C>          <C>           <C>           <C>             <C>
Village Trails                  Howard City, MI              988         2,130         3,118            228            1998(A)
Water Oak Country Club Est.     Lady Lake, FL              2,503        20,759        23,262          5,315            1993(A)
Woodhaven Place                 Woodhaven, MI                501         5,293         5,794            635            1998(A)
Woodland Park Estates           Eugene, OR                 1,593        14,662        16,255          1,737            1998(A)
Woodside Terrace                Holland, OH                1,064        11,038        12,102          1,612            1997(A)
West Glen Village               Indianapolis, IN           1,100        10,771        11,871          2,665            1994(A)
White Lake                      White Lake, MI               673         9,714        10,387          1,197            1997(A)
White Oak                       Mt. Morris, MI               894        10,595        11,489          1,410            1997(A)
Willowbrook                     Toledo, OH                   781         7,421         8,202            873            1997(A)
Windham Hills                   Jackson, MI                2,673         8,570        11,243            734            1998(A)
Woodlake Estates                Yoder, IN                    632         5,881         6,513            573            1998(A)
Woods Edge                      West Lafayette, IN           103        10,136        10,239          1,592            1985(A)
Worthington Arms                Lewis Center, OH             376         3,731         4,107            982            1990(A)
Westbrook Senior                Toledo, OH                   355         3,295         3,650             55            2001(A)
Westbrook                       Toledo, OH                 1,110        11,036        12,146            921            1999(A)
Corporate Headquarters          Farmington Hills, MI           -         6,030         6,030          1,415            Various
                                                       ---------     ---------     ---------      ---------
                                                       $ 102,698(5)  $ 850,958(6)  $ 953,656      $ 140,322
                                                       =========     =========     =========      =========
</TABLE>


(1)   These communities collaterize $42.8 million of secured debt.

(2)   These communities are financed by $26 million of collaterized lease
      obligations.

(3)   These communities collaterize $4.7 million of secured debt.

(4)   These communities collaterize $12.4 million of secured debt.

(5)   Includes $3.6 million of land in property under development in Footnote 2
      "Rental Property" to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements
      included elsewhere herein.

(6)   Includes $12.2 million of property under development in Footnote 2 "Rental
      Property" to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements included
      elsewhere herein.

(7)   The initial cost for this property is included in the initial cost
      reported for Continental Estates.

(8)   Mortgage paid in full in March 2002.

                                      F-21
<PAGE>
SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.                                               SCHEDULE III
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION, CONTINUED
DECEMBER 31, 2001
(AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)


The change in investment in real estate for the years ended December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999 is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     2001              2000              1999
                                                     ----              ----              ----
<S>                                               <C>               <C>               <C>
Balance, beginning of year ...............        $ 867,377         $ 847,696         $ 803,152
Community and land acquisitions, including
   immediate improvements ................           62,775            24,339            41,083
Community expansion and development ......           30,958            30,795            42,480
Improvements, other ......................            8,690             4,595             7,022
Dispositions and other ...................          (16,144)          (40,048)          (46,041)
                                                  ---------         ---------         ---------
Balance, end of year .....................        $ 953,656         $ 867,377         $ 847,696
                                                  =========         =========         =========
</TABLE>

The change in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999 is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     2001              2001              1999
                                                     ----              ----              ----
<S>                                               <C>               <C>               <C>
Balance, beginning of year ...............        $ 115,557         $  92,558         $  70,940
Depreciation for the period ..............           28,011            26,170            25,112
Dispositions and other ...................           (3,246)           (3,171)           (3,494)
                                                  ---------         ---------         ---------
Balance, end of year .....................        $ 140,322         $ 115,557         $  92,558
                                                  =========         =========         =========
</TABLE>

                                      F-22


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.35
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-35.txt
<DESCRIPTION>111TH AMENDMENT TO 2ND AMENDED PARTNERSHIP AGRMT.
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.35

                         ONE HUNDRED ELEVENTH AMENDMENT
                                     TO THE
            SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED LIMITED PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT
                                       OF
                  SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

      THIS ONE HUNDRED ELEVENTH AMENDMENT TO THE SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED
LIMITED PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT OF SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
(this "AMENDMENT") is entered into as of May 1, 2000, by and between SUN
COMMUNITIES, INC., a Maryland corporation (the "GENERAL PARTNER"), as the
general partner of SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan
limited partnership (the "PARTNERSHIP"), and FOUR SEASONS MOBILE HOME PARK, an
Indiana partnership (the "SERIES B PREFERRED Partner").

                                    RECITALS

      A. The Series B Preferred Partner and the Partnership are parties to that
certain Contribution Agreement dated February 2, 2000 (the "Contribution
Agreement"), pursuant to which the Series B Preferred Partner has agreed to
contribute to the Partnership the Project (as defined in the Contribution
Agreement) in consideration for the issuance by the Partnership of Series B
Preferred Units (as hereinafter defined).

      B. The signatories hereto desire to amend that certain Second Amended and
Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Sun Communities Operating Limited
Partnership, dated as of April 30, 1996, as amended by those certain amendments
numbered one through one hundred ten (collectively, as amended, the "AGREEMENT")
as set forth herein; any capitalized term not defined herein shall have the
respective meaning ascribed to it in the Agreement.

      C. Section 11 of the Agreement authorizes the General Partner, as the
holder of more than fifty percent (50%) of the OP Units, to amend the Agreement.

      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, of the mutual promises
set forth herein, and of other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to
be legally bound, agree to continue the Partnership and amend the Agreement as
follows:

      1. Admission of New Partners. As of the date hereof, the Series B
Preferred Partner has contributed the Project, with a net agreed upon value of
$3,563,700, to the Partnership in exchange for the issuance to the Series B
Preferred Partner of 35,637 Series B Preferred Units. The Series B Preferred
Units issued to the Series B Preferred Partner have been duly issued and fully
paid. The Series B Preferred Partner is hereby admitted to the Partnership,
effective as of May 1, 2000 as a new Limited Partner, and by execution of this
Amendment the Series B Preferred Partner has agreed to be bound by all of the
terms and conditions of the Agreement, as

<PAGE>

amended hereby, and hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Agreement.
Exhibit A of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and is replaced
with EXHIBIT A to this Amendment.

      2. Sections 3.1 and 3.2. Sections 3.1 and 3.2 of the Agreement are hereby
deleted in their entirety and replaced with the following:

      "3.1  OP UNITS

            The Partners' interests in the Partnership are expressed in terms of
      OP Units and each Partner has been issued OP Units corresponding to the
      agreed value of its capital contribution. OP Units consist of Common OP
      Units, Preferred OP Units, Series A Preferred Units and Series B Preferred
      Units.

      3.2 COMMON OP UNITS

            The holders of the Common OP Units shall be entitled to receive
      distributions in accordance with Section 4.3, after payment of all accrued
      (i) Preferred Dividends, (ii) Series A Priority Return and (iii) Series B
      Priority Return. No distribution shall be made in respect of Common OP
      Units while any accrued (i) Preferred Dividends, (ii) Series A Priority
      Return, or (iii) Series B Priority Return remains unpaid unless all such
      unpaid amounts are paid simultaneously with such distribution."

      3. Section 3.9. Section 3.9 of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its
entirety and replaced with the following:

      "3.9 WITHDRAWALS

            No Partner shall be entitled to withdraw any portion of its capital
      account, except by way of distribution pursuant to Sections 4.3, 8.2,16
      and 17 hereof."

      4. Section 4.2 (a)(v) of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety
and replaced with the following:

            "(v) fifth, with respect to OP Units other than Series A Preferred
      Units, pro rata in proportion to the number of OP Units other than Series
      A Preferred Units, held by each such Partner as of the last day of the
      period for which such allocation is being made; provided, however, that
      the profits allocated to any Preferred OP Units and Series B Preferred
      Units pursuant to this Section 4.2(b)(v) for any calendar year shall not
      exceed the amount of Preferred Dividends and Series B Priority Return,
      respectively, thereon for that calendar year, and any such excess profits
      remaining after the application of such limitation shall be allocated to
      the holders of the Common OP Units, pro rata."

      5. Section 8.2(a) of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and
replaced with the following:


                                       2
<PAGE>

      "8.2 LIQUIDATING DISTRIBUTIONS; RESTORATION OF CAPITAL ACCOUNT DEFICITS

            Upon the liquidation of the Partnership or any Partner's interest in
      the Partnership, within the meaning of the Allocation Regulations:

                  (a) The capital accounts of the holders of the OP Units shall
      be adjusted to reflect the manner in which any unrealized income, gain,
      loss and deduction inherent in the Partnership's property, which has not
      previously been reflected in the Partners' capital accounts, would be
      allocated among the Partners if there were a taxable disposition of such
      property at fair market value on the date of distribution. Any resulting
      increase in the Partners' capital accounts shall be allocated (i) first to
      the holders of the Preferred OP Units and Series A Preferred Units in
      proportions and amounts sufficient to bring their respective capital
      account balances up to the amount of the Issue Prices of their respective
      Preferred OP Units and Series A Preferred Units plus accrued and unpaid
      Preferred Dividends or Series A Priority Return, as the case may be,
      thereon, (ii) second to the holders of the Series B Preferred Units in
      proportions and amounts sufficient to bring their respective capital
      account balances up to the amount of the Issue Price of the Series B
      Preferred Units plus accrued and unpaid Series B Priority Return thereon,
      and (iii) third (if any) to the Common OP Units. Any resulting decrease in
      the Partners' capital accounts shall first be allocated (i) first to the
      holders of the Common OP Units in proportions and amounts sufficient to
      reduce their respective capital account balances to zero, (ii) second to
      the holders of Series B Preferred Units in proportions and amounts
      sufficient to reduce their respective capital account balances to zero,
      (iii) third to the holders of the Preferred OP Units and Series A
      Preferred Units in proportions and amounts sufficient to reduce their
      respective capital account balances to zero, and (iv) (if any) to the
      General Partner. Liquidating distributions shall be made in accordance
      with the positive capital account balances of the Partners, after giving
      effect to such adjustment and other capital account adjustments for the
      current year, as provided in the Allocation Regulations.

      6. Section 14. Section 14 of the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

            (a) The second sentence of the definition of "OP UNITS" is hereby
      deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following: "OP Units consist
      of Common OP Units, Preferred OP Units, Series A Preferred Units and
      Series B Preferred Units."

            (c) The following new definitions are inserted in Section 14
      (Definitions) so as to preserve alphabetical order:

                  "FIRST 24 MONTH PERIOD" shall mean the period commencing on
            May 1, 2000 and ending on and including April 30, 2002.

                  "FIRST 12 MONTH PERIOD" shall mean the period commencing on
            and including May 1, 2004 and ending on and including April 30,
            2005.


                                       3
<PAGE>

                  "SECOND 24 MONTH PERIOD" shall mean the period commencing on
            and including May 1, 2002 and ending on and including April 30,
            2004.

                  "SECOND 12 MONTH PERIOD" shall mean the period commencing on
            and including May 1, 2005 and ending on and including April 30,
            2006.

                  "SERIES B DEFAULT" shall have the meaning set forth therefor
            in Section 17.5(c) hereof.

                  "SERIES B ISSUANCE DATE" shall mean May 1, 2000.

                  "SERIES B JUNIOR UNITS" shall have the meaning set forth
            therefor in Section 17.3(c) hereof.

                  "SERIES B PARITY PREFERRED UNITS" shall have the meaning set
            forth therefor in Section 17.1 hereof.

                  "SERIES B PREFERRED PARTNER" means Four Seasons Mobile Home
            Park, an Indiana partnership, and its successors and permitted
            assigns.

                  "SERIES B PREFERRED UNIT DISTRIBUTION PAYMENT DATE" shall have
            the meaning set forth therefor in Section 17.3(a) hereof.

                  "SERIES B PREFERRED UNITS" shall have the meaning set forth
            therefor in Section 17.2 hereof.

                  "SERIES B PRIORITY RETURN" shall have the meaning set forth
            therefor in Section 17.1 hereof.

                  "SERIES B REDEMPTION PRICE" shall mean $100 per Series B
            Preferred Unit redeemed.

      7. Section 17. The following new Section 17 is inserted in the Agreement
after Section 16 thereof:


                                       4
<PAGE>

      "17. SERIES B PREFERRED UNITS.

            SECTION 17.1 DEFINITIONS. The term "SERIES B PARITY PREFERRED UNITS"
      shall mean any class or series of OP Units of the Partnership now or
      hereafter authorized, issued or outstanding and expressly designated by
      the Partnership to rank on parity with the Series B Preferred Units with
      respect to distributions and rights upon voluntary or involuntary
      liquidation, winding-up or dissolution of the Partnership. The term
      "SERIES B PRIORITY RETURN" shall mean an amount equal to (i) 7.0% per
      annum for the First 24 Month Period, (ii) 7.5% per annum for the Second 24
      Month Period, (iii) 8.0% per annum for the First 12 Month Period, and (iv)
      9.0% per annum for the Second 12 Month Period (determined on the basis of
      a 365 day year), of the stated amount of $100.00 per Series B Preferred
      Unit multiplied by the number of outstanding Series B Preferred Units,
      cumulative to the extent not distributed for any given distribution period
      pursuant to Section 4.3 hereof.

            SECTION 17.2 DESIGNATION AND NUMBER. A series of OP Units in the
      Partnership designated as the "Series B Cumulative Preferred Units" (the
      "SERIES B PREFERRED UNITS") is hereby established. The number of Series B
      Preferred Units shall be 35,637.

            SECTION 17.3 DISTRIBUTIONS.

                  (a) Payment of Distributions.

                        (i) Subject to the rights of holders of Series A
                  Preferred Units, Parity Preferred Units, Preferred OP Units
                  and Series B Parity Preferred Units as to the payment of
                  distributions pursuant to Sections 4.3, 8.2 and 16.3 of the
                  Agreement, holders of Series B Preferred Units shall be
                  entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the
                  Partnership acting through the General Partner, out of the
                  Partnership's available cash, the Series B Priority Return.

                        (ii) All distributions shall be cumulative, shall accrue
                  from the original date of issuance and will be payable (i)
                  quarterly (such quarterly periods for purposes of payment and
                  accrual will be the quarterly periods ending on the dates
                  specified in this sentence) in arrears, on April 30, June 30,
                  September 30 and December 31 of each year, commencing on June
                  30, 2000 (with the first such payment to include the amount
                  accrued from the period commencing on the date hereof through
                  and including June 30, 2000) and (ii) in the event of a
                  redemption of Series B Preferred Units, on the redemption date
                  (each a "SERIES B PREFERRED UNIT DISTRIBUTION PAYMENT DATE").
                  The amount of the distribution payable for any period will be
                  computed on the basis of a 365-day year and for any period
                  shorter than a full quarterly period for which distributions
                  are computed, the amount of the distribution payable will be
                  computed based on the ratio of


                                       5
<PAGE>

                  the actual number of days elapsed in such period to the actual
                  number of days in such quarterly period. If any date on which
                  distributions are to be made on the Series B Preferred Units
                  is not a Business Day (as defined in SECTION 14), then payment
                  of the distribution to be made on such date will be made on
                  the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without
                  any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay)
                  except that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding
                  calendar year, such payment shall be made on the immediately
                  preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and
                  effect as if made on such date. Distributions on the Series B
                  Preferred Units will be made to the holders of record of the
                  Series B Preferred Units on the relevant record dates to be
                  fixed by the Partnership acting through the General Partner,
                  which record dates shall in no event exceed fifteen (15)
                  Business Days prior to the relevant Series B Preferred Unit
                  Distribution Payment Date.

                  (b) Distributions Cumulative. Distributions on the Series B
            Preferred Units will accrue whether or not the terms and provisions
            of any agreement of the Partnership, including any agreement
            relating to its indebtedness at any time prohibit the declaration,
            setting aside for payment or current payment of distributions,
            whether or not the Partnership has earnings, whether or not there
            are funds legally available for the payment of such of such
            distributions and whether or not such distributions are authorized.
            Accrued but unpaid distributions on the Series B Preferred Units
            will accumulate as of the Series B Preferred Unit Distribution
            Payment Date on which they first become payable. Distributions on
            account of arrears for any past distribution periods may be declared
            and paid at any time, without reference to a regular Series B
            Preferred Unit Distribution Payment Date to holders of record of the
            Series B Preferred Units on the record date fixed by the Partnership
            acting through the General Partner which date shall not exceed
            fifteen (15) Business Days prior to the payment date. Accumulated
            and unpaid distributions will not bear interest.

                 (c) Priority as to Distributions.

                        (i) So long as any Series B Preferred Units are
                  outstanding, no distribution of cash or other property shall
                  be authorized, declared, paid or set apart for payment on or
                  with respect to any class or series of OP Units of the
                  Partnership ranking junior as to the payment of distributions
                  or rights upon a voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
                  dissolution or winding-up of the Partnership to the Series B
                  Preferred Units (collectively, "SERIES B JUNIOR UNITS"), nor
                  shall any cash or other property be set aside for or applied
                  to the purchase, redemption or other acquisition for
                  consideration of any Series B Preferred Units, any Series B
                  Parity Preferred Units or any Series B Junior Units, unless,
                  in each case, all distributions accumulated on all Series B
                  Preferred Units and all classes and series of outstanding
                  Series B Parity Preferred Units have been paid in


                                        6
<PAGE>

                  full. The foregoing sentence will not prohibit (a)
                  distributions payable solely in OP Units ranking junior to the
                  Series B Preferred Units as to the payment of distributions
                  and rights upon a voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
                  dissolution or winding-up of the Partnership, (b) the
                  conversion of Series B Junior Units or Series B Parity
                  Preferred Units into OP Units of the Partnership ranking
                  junior to the Series B Preferred Units as to distributions and
                  rights upon a voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
                  dissolution or winding-up of the Partnership, or (c) the
                  redemption of OP Units corresponding to any Junior Stock (as
                  defined in the Series A Articles Supplementary) to be
                  purchased by the General Partner pursuant to Article VII of
                  the Charter to preserve the General Partner's status as a real
                  estate investment trust, provided that such redemption shall
                  be upon the same terms as the corresponding purchase pursuant
                  to Article VII of the Charter.

                        (ii) So long as distributions have not been paid in full
                  (or a sum sufficient for such full payment is not irrevocably
                  deposited in trust for immediate payment) upon the Series B
                  Preferred Units, all distributions authorized and declared on
                  the Series B Preferred Units and all classes or series of
                  outstanding Series B Parity Preferred Units shall be
                  authorized and declared so that the amount of distributions
                  authorized and declared per Series B Preferred Unit and such
                  other classes or series of Series B Parity Preferred Units
                  shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that
                  accrued distributions per Series B Preferred Unit and such
                  other classes or series of Series B Parity Preferred Units
                  (which shall not include any accumulation in respect of unpaid
                  distributions for prior distribution periods if such class or
                  series of Series B Parity Preferred Units do not have
                  cumulative distribution rights) bear to each other.

                        (iii) The Series B Preferred Units and any Series B
                  Parity Preferred Units shall be deemed to be "Junior Units" as
                  defined in Section 16.3(c) hereof, and so long as any Series A
                  Preferred Units or Parity Preferred Units are outstanding, no
                  distribution of cash or other property shall be authorized,
                  declared, paid or set apart for payment on or with respect to
                  the Series B Preferred Units or any Series B Parity Preferred
                  Units, nor shall any cash or other property be set aside for
                  or applied to the purchase, redemption or other acquisition
                  for consideration of any Series B Preferred Units or Series B
                  Parity Preferred Units unless, in each case, all distributions
                  accumulated on all Series A Preferred Units and all classes
                  and series of outstanding Parity Preferred Units have been
                  paid in full.

                  (d) Distributions on OP Units held by General Partner.
            Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, distributions on OP
            Units held by the General Partner may be made, without preserving
            the priority of


                                       7
<PAGE>

            distributions described in Section 17.3(c)(i) and (ii), but only to
            the extent such distributions are required to preserve the real
            estate investment trust status of the General Partner.

                  (e) No Further Rights. Holders of Series B Preferred Units
            shall not be entitled to any distributions, whether payable in cash,
            other property or otherwise, in excess of the full cumulative
            distributions described herein.

            SECTION 17.4 LIQUIDATION PROCEEDS.

                  (a) Notice. Written notice of any voluntary or involuntary
            liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Partnership, stating
            the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where, the
            amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall
            be given by (i) fax and (ii) by first class mail, postage pre-paid,
            not less than thirty (30) and not more than sixty (60) days prior to
            the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the Series
            B Preferred Units at the respective addresses of such holders as the
            same shall appear on the transfer records of the Partnership.

                  (b) No Further Rights. After payment of the full amount of the
            liquidating distributions to which they are entitled pursuant to
            Section 8.2 hereof, the holders of Series B Preferred Units will
            have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the
            Partnership.

                  (c) Consolidation, Merger or Certain Other Transactions. The
            voluntary sale, conveyance, lease, exchange or transfer (for cash,
            shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or
            substantially all of the property or assets of the General Partner
            to, or the consolidation or merger or other business combination of
            the Partnership with or into, any corporation, trust, partnership,
            limited liability company or other entity (or of any corporation,
            trust, partnership, limited liability company or other entity with
            or into the Partnership) shall not be deemed to constitute a
            liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Partnership.

            SECTION 17.5 REDEMPTION.

                  (a) Mandatory Redemption. Subject to the limitations in this
            Section 17.5, the holders of Series B Preferred Units may request
            redemption of, and the Partnership shall redeem, for cash, Series B
            Preferred Units on the following terms and subject to the following
            conditions:

                        (i) On May 1, 2003 the holders of Series B Preferred
                  Units may require that the Partnership redeem an aggregate of
                  10,000 Series B Preferred Units upon not less than sixty (60)
                  days prior written notice, at the Series B Redemption Price.


                                       8
<PAGE>

                        (ii) On May 1, 2004 and May 1, 2005 the holders of
                  Series B Preferred Units may require that the Partnership
                  redeem all outstanding Series B Preferred Units upon not less
                  than sixty (60) days prior written notice at the Series B
                  Redemption Price.

                        (iii) On May 1, 2006, the Partnership shall redeem all
                  outstanding Series B Preferred Units at the Series B
                  Redemption Price.

                  (b) Redemption in the Event of a Series B Default. The
            Partnership shall redeem, for cash, all outstanding Series B
            Preferred Units at the Series B Redemption Price in the event the
            Partnership fails to declare and pay on any Series B Preferred Unit
            Distribution Payment Date the Series B Priority Return for any
            reason including the failure to declare a distribution of the Series
            B Priority Retrun (a "SERIES B DEFAULT"). Such redemption shall
            occur fifteen (15) days after written demand of the holders of
            Series B Preferred Units is received by the Partnership, provided
            such notice is received by the Partnership no later than thirty (30)
            days after the Series B Preferred Unit Distribution Payment Date
            that is the subject of the Series B Default. Failure of the holders
            of Series B Preferred Units to timely give such notice shall
            terminate the right of the holders of Series B Preferred Units under
            this Section 17.5(b) to demand redemption with respect to the Series
            B Default to which such notice relates, but shall not effect the
            rights of the holders of Series B Preferred Units under this Section
            17.5(b) for any subsequent Series B Default.

                  (c) Limitations on Redemption. Any redemption pursuant to this
            Section 17.5 is subject to and limited by the provisions of Section
            16.3(c)(i) hereof.

                  (d) Procedures for Redemption.

                        (i) Notice of redemption will be (A) faxed and (B)
                  mailed by the holders of Series B Preferred Units, by
                  certified mail, postage prepaid, to the Partnership so that
                  notice is received by the Partnership within the periods set
                  forth herein and in accordance with the provisions hereof.
                  Each such notice shall: (1) state the aggregate number of
                  Series B Preferred Units to be redeemed and if fewer than all
                  of the outstanding Series B Preferred Units are to be
                  redeemed, the number of Series B Preferred Units to be
                  redeemed held by such holder, which number shall equal such
                  holder's pro rata share (based on the percentage of the
                  aggregate number of outstanding Series B Preferred Units the
                  total number of Series B Preferred Units held by such holder
                  represents) of the aggregate number of Series B Preferred
                  Units to be redeemed and (2) refer to the specific subsection
                  of this Section 17.5 pursuant to which such redemption is
                  being effected. Any such notice shall be irrevocable.


                                       9
<PAGE>

                        (ii) By 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the
                  redemption date, the Partnership will deposit irrevocably in
                  trust with Boston Equiserve, its transfer agent (or any
                  successor entity, provided such entity is a third party,
                  unrelated to the Company and the Partnership) for the benefit
                  of the Series B Preferred Units being redeemed funds
                  sufficient to pay the Series B Redemption Price and will give
                  irrevocable instructions to such transfer agent and authority
                  to pay such Series B Redemption Price to the holders of the
                  Series B Preferred Units upon surrender of the Series B
                  Preferred Units by such holders at the place designated by the
                  Partnership. If the Series B Preferred Units are evidenced by
                  a certificate and if fewer than all Series B Preferred Units
                  evidenced by any certificate are being redeemed, a new
                  certificate shall be issued upon surrender of the certificate
                  evidencing all Series B Preferred Units, evidencing the
                  unredeemed Series B Preferred Units without cost to the holder
                  thereof. On and after the date of redemption, distributions
                  will cease to accumulate on the Series B Preferred Units or
                  portions thereof called for redemption, unless the Partnership
                  defaults in the payment of the Series B Redemption Price. If
                  any date fixed for redemption of Series B Preferred Units is
                  not a Business Day, then payment of the Series B Redemption
                  Price payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding
                  day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other
                  payment in respect of any such delay) except that, if such
                  Business Day falls in the next calendar year, such payment
                  will be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in
                  each case with the same force and effect as if made on such
                  date fixed for redemption. If payment of the Series B
                  Redemption Price is improperly withheld or refused and not
                  paid by the Partnership, distributions on such Series B
                  Preferred Units will continue to accumulate from the original
                  redemption date to the date of payment, in which case the
                  actual payment date will be considered the date fixed for
                  redemption for purposes of calculating the Series B Redemption
                  Price.

            SECTION 17.6 VOTING RIGHTS. Holders of the Series B Preferred Units
      will not have any voting rights or right to consent to any matter
      requiring the consent or approval of the Limited Partners.

            SECTION 17.7 TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS. The Series B Preferred Units
      shall be subject to the provisions of SECTION 9 of the Agreement.

            SECTION 17.8 CONVERSION AND EXCHANGE RIGHTS.

            (a) General. The holders of Series B Preferred Units shall be
      entitled to convert Series B Preferred Units into Common OP Units or
      exchange Series B Preferred Units for shares of the General Partner's
      common stock, at their option, on the following terms and subject to the
      following conditions:


                                       10
<PAGE>

                  (i) On May 1, 2002, the holders of Series B Preferred Units
            may convert an aggregate of 10,000 Series B Preferred Units into
            22,727 Common OP Units or exchange an aggregate of 10,000 Series B
            Preferred Units for 22,727 shares of the General Partner's common
            stock, or any combination thereof at conversion or exchange rate of
            2.272727 Common OP Units or shares of the General Partner's common
            stock, as the case may be, for each Series B Preferred Unit (rounded
            to the lower whole number), at their option, provided the General
            Partner has received at least sixty (60) days prior written notice
            of such conversion or exchange, such notice to specify the number of
            Common OP Units and number of shares of the General Partner's common
            stock to which the Series B Preferred Units are to be converted or
            exchanged.

                  (ii) On each of May 1, 2003, May 1, 2004, May 1, 2005 and May
            1, 2006, the holders of Series B Preferred Units may convert all or
            any portion (but not less than 10,000) Series B Preferred Units to
            Common OP Units or exchange all or any portion (but not less than
            10,000) Series B Preferred Units for shares of the General Partner's
            common stock, at their option, at a conversion and exchange rate of
            2.272727 Common OP Units or shares of the General Partner's common
            stock, as the case may be, for each Series B Preferred Unit (rounded
            to the lower whole number), provided the General Partner has
            received at least sixty (60) days prior written notice of such
            conversion or exchange, such notice to specify the number of Common
            OP Units and number of shares of the General Partner's common stock
            to which the Series B Preferred Units are to be converted or
            exchanged.

      (b) Procedure for Conversion or Exchange.

                  (i) Any conversion or exchange shall be exercised pursuant to
            a notice of conversion or exchange (the "SERIES B
            CONVERSION/EXCHANGE NOTICE") delivered to the General Partner by the
            holder who is exercising such conversion or exchange right, by (A)
            fax and (B) by certified mail postage prepaid. The Series B
            Conversion/Exchange Notice and certificates, if any, representing
            such Series B Preferred Units to be converted or exchanged shall be
            delivered to the office of the General Partner maintained for such
            purpose. Currently, such office is:

                                Sun Communities, Inc.
                                Suite 145
                                31700 Middlebelt Road
                                Farmington Hills, Michigan 48334.

            Any conversion or exchange hereunder shall be effective as of the
            close of business on the conversion or exchange date. The holders of
            the converted or exchanged Series B Preferred Units shall be deemed
            to have surrendered the same to the Partnership


                                       11
<PAGE>

            or the General Partner, as the case may be, and the Partnership or
            the General Partner, as the case may be, shall be deemed to have
            issued Common OP Units or shares of common stock of the General
            Partner, as applicable, at the close of business on the conversion
            or exchange date.

            (c) Adjustment of Series B Conversion/Exchange Rate.

                  (i) The conversion/exchange rate is subject to adjustment upon
            subdivisions, stock splits, stock dividends, combinations and
            reclassification of the common stock of the General Partner.

                  (ii) In case the General Partner shall be a party to any
            transaction (including, without limitation, a merger, consolidation,
            statutory share exchange, tender offer for all or substantially all
            of the General Partner's capital stock or sale of all or
            substantially all of the General Partner's assets), in each case as
            a result of which the General Partner's common stock will be
            converted into the right to receive shares of capital stock, other
            securities or other property (including cash or any combination
            thereof), each Series B Preferred Unit will thereafter be
            convertible or exchangeable into the kind and amount of shares of
            capital stock and other securities and property receivable
            (including cash or any combination thereof) upon the consummation of
            such transaction by a holder of that number of shares of the General
            Partner's common stock or fraction thereof into which one Series B
            Preferred Unit was convertible or exchangeable immediately prior to
            such transaction

            (d) Limitations on Conversion and Exchange. Notwithstanding Section
      17.8(a):

                  (i) Upon tender of any Series B Preferred Units to the General
            Partner pursuant to that Section, the General Partner may issue cash
            in lieu of stock to the extent necessary to prevent the recipient
            from violating the Ownership Limitations of Section 2 of Article VII
            of the Charter, or corresponding provisions of any amendment or
            restatement thereof; and

                  (ii) A holder of Series B Preferred Units will not have the
            right to exchange Series B Preferred Units for the General Partner's
            common stock if (1) in the opinion of counsel for the General
            Partner, the General Partner would no longer qualify or its status
            would be seriously compromised as a real estate investment trust
            under the Internal Revenue Code as a result of such exchange; or (2)
            such exchange would, in the opinion of counsel for the General
            Partner, constitute or be likely to constitute a violation of
            applicable securities laws. In the event of either such occurrence,
            the General Partner shall purchase such holder's Series B Preferred
            Units for cash at a purchase price of $100 per Series B Preferred
            Unit.


                                       12
<PAGE>

            (e) Reservation of Common Stock. The General Partner shall at all
      times reserve and keep available a sufficient number of authorized but
      unissued shares of common stock to permit the exchange of all of the
      outstanding Series B Preferred Units pursuant to this Section 17.8.

            (f) Payment of Series B Priority Return. On the Series B Preferred
      Unit Distribution Payment Date next following a conversion or exchange
      date, holders of Series B Preferred Units converted or exchanged on such
      date shall be entitled to Series B Priority Return in an amount equal to a
      prorated portion of the Series B Priority Return based on the number of
      days elapsed from the prior Series B Preferred Unit Distribution Payment
      Date through, but not including, the conversion or exchange date.

            SECTION 17.9 NO SINKING FUND. No sinking fund shall be established
      for the retirement or redemption of Series B Preferred Units.

      8. Governing Law. This Amendment shall be interpreted and enforced
according to the laws of the State of Michigan.

      9. Full Force and Effect. Except as amended by the provisions hereof, the
Agreement, as previously amended, shall remain in full force and effect in
accordance with its terms and is hereby ratified, confirmed and reaffirmed by
the undersigned for all purposes and in all respects.

      10. Successors/Assigns. This Amendment shall be binding upon and shall
inure to the benefit of the parties hereto, their respective legal
representatives, successors and assigns.

      11. Counterparts. This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, all of
which together shall constitute one agreement binding on all the parties hereto,
notwithstanding that all such parties are not signatories to the original or the
same counterpart.

                        (SIGNATURES APPEAR ON NEXT PAGE)


                                       13
<PAGE>

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Amendment as of the
day and year first above written.

                                GENERAL PARTNER

                                SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.


                                By: /s/ Jonathan M. Colman
                                    -------------------------------------------
                                    Name:  Jonathan M. Colman
                                    Title:  Senior Vice President - Acquisitions

                       (SIGNATURES CONTINUE ON NEXT PAGE)


                                       14
<PAGE>

                               NEW LIMITED PARTNER

                                FOUR SEASONS MOBILE HOME PARK,
                                AN INDIANA PARTNERSHIP


                                By: /s/ Randall Lipps
                                    -------------------------------------------
                                         Randall Lipps


                                By: /s/ Sharon DeLucemy
                                    -------------------------------------------
                                         Sharon DeLucemy


                                       15

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.36
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-36.txt
<DESCRIPTION>136TH AMENDMENT TO 2ND AMENDED PARTNERSHIP AGRMT.
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.36

                       ONE HUNDRED THIRTY-SIXTH AMENDMENT
                                     TO THE
            SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED LIMITED PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT
                                       OF
                  SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

      THIS ONE HUNDRED THIRTY-SIXTH AMENDMENT TO THE SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED
LIMITED PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT OF SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
(this "AMENDMENT") is made and entered into as of April 16, 2001, by SUN
COMMUNITIES, INC., a Maryland corporation (the "GENERAL PARTNER"), as the
general partner of SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan
limited partnership (the "PARTNERSHIP"), and RIVER HAVEN VILLAGE, INC., a
Michigan corporation (the "Series B-1 Preferred Partner").

                                    RECITALS

      A. The Series B-1 Preferred Partner and the Partnership are parties to
that certain Amended and Restated Contribution Agreement dated February 1, 2001
(the "Contribution Agreement"), pursuant to which the Series B-1 Preferred
Partner has agreed to contribute to the Partnership the Project (as defined in
the Contribution Agreement) in consideration for the issuance by the Partnership
of Series B-1 Preferred Units (as hereinafter defined).

      B. The signatories hereto desire to amend that certain Second Amended and
Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Sun Communities Operating Limited
Partnership, dated as of April 30, 1996, as amended by those certain amendments
numbered one through one hundred thirty-five  (collectively, as amended, the
"Agreement") as set forth herein; any capitalized term not defined herein shall
have the respective meaning ascribed to it in the Agreement.

      C. Section 11 of the Agreement authorizes the General Partner, as the
holder of more than fifty percent (50%) of the OP Units, to amend the Agreement.

      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, of the mutual promises
set forth herein, and of other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to
be legally bound, agree to continue the Partnership and amend the Agreement as
follows:

      1. Admission of New Partners. As of the date hereof, the Series B-1
Preferred Partner has contributed the Project, with a net agreed upon value of
$4,611,692.48., to the Partnership in exchange for the issuance to the Series
B-1 Preferred Partner of 46,117 Series B-1 Preferred Units. The Series B-1
Preferred Units issued to the Series B-1 Preferred Partner have been duly issued
and fully paid. The Series B-1 Preferred Partner is hereby admitted to the
Partnership, effective as of April 16, 2001, as a new Limited Partner, and by
execution of this Amendment the Series B-1 Preferred Partner has agreed to be
bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Agreement, as amended hereby,
and hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Agreement. Exhibit A of the
Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and is replaced with EXHIBIT A to
this Amendment.

      2. Sections 3.1 and 3.2. Sections 3.1 and 3.2 of the Agreement are hereby
deleted in their entirety and replaced with the following:

      "3.1 OP UNITS
<PAGE>
            The Partners' interests in the Partnership are expressed in terms of
      OP Units and each Partner has been issued OP Units corresponding to the
      agreed value of its capital contribution. OP Units consist of Common OP
      Units, Preferred OP Units, Series A Preferred Units, Series B Preferred
      Units and Series B-1 Preferred Units.

      3.2 COMMON OP UNITS

            The holders of the Common OP Units shall be entitled to receive
      distributions in accordance with Section 4.3, after payment of all accrued
      (i) Preferred Dividends, (ii) Series A Priority Return, (iii) Series B
      Priority Return and (iv) Series B-1 Priority Return. No distribution shall
      be made in respect of Common OP Units while any accrued (i) Preferred
      Dividends, (ii) Series A Priority Return, (iii) Series B Priority Return
      or (iv) Series B-1 Priority Return remains unpaid unless all such unpaid
      amounts are paid simultaneously with such distribution."

      3. Section 4.2 (a)(v) of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety
and replaced with the following:

            "(v) fifth, with respect to OP Units other than Series A Preferred
      Units, pro rata in proportion to the number of OP Units other than Series
      A Preferred Units, held by each such Partner as of the last day of the
      period for which such allocation is being made; provided, however, that
      the profits allocated to any Preferred OP Units, Series B Preferred Units
      and Series B-1 Preferred Units pursuant to this Section 4.2(b)(v) for any
      calendar year shall not exceed the amount of Preferred Dividends, Series B
      Priority Return and Series B-1 Priority Return, respectively, thereon for
      that calendar year, and any such excess profits remaining after the
      application of such limitation shall be allocated to the holders of the
      Common OP Units, pro rata."

      4. Section 8.2(a) of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and
replaced with the following:

      "8.2 LIQUIDATING DISTRIBUTIONS; RESTORATION OF CAPITAL ACCOUNT DEFICITS

            Upon the liquidation of the Partnership or any Partner's interest in
      the Partnership, within the meaning of the Allocation Regulations:

                  (a) The capital accounts of the holders of the OP Units shall
      be adjusted to reflect the manner in which any unrealized income, gain,
      loss and deduction inherent in the Partnership's property, which has not
      previously been reflected in the Partners' capital accounts, would be
      allocated among the Partners if there were a taxable disposition of such
      property at fair market value on the date of distribution. Any resulting
      increase in the Partners' capital accounts shall be allocated (i) first to
      the holders of the Preferred OP Units and Series A Preferred Units in
      proportions and amounts sufficient to bring their respective capital
      account balances up to the amount of the Issue Prices of their respective
      Preferred OP Units and Series A Preferred Units plus accrued and unpaid
      Preferred Dividends or Series A Priority Return, as the case may be,
      thereon, (ii) second to the holders of the Series B Cumulative Preferred
      Units in proportions and amounts sufficient to bring their respective
      capital account balances up to the amount of the Issue Price of the Series
      B Cumulative Preferred Units plus accrued and unpaid Series B Priority
      Return and Series B-1 Priority Return, as applicable, thereon, and (iii)
      third (if any) to the Common OP Units. Any resulting decrease in the
      Partners' capital accounts shall first be allocated (i) first to the
      holders of the Common OP Units in proportions and amounts sufficient to
      reduce their respective capital account balances to zero, (ii) second to
      the holders of Series B


                                       2
<PAGE>
      Cumulative Preferred Units in proportions and amounts sufficient to reduce
      their respective capital account balances to zero, (iii) third to the
      holders of the Preferred OP Units and Series A Preferred Units in
      proportions and amounts sufficient to reduce their respective capital
      account balances to zero, and (iv) (if any) to the General Partner.
      Liquidating distributions shall be made in accordance with the positive
      capital account balances of the Partners, after giving effect to such
      adjustment and other capital account adjustments for the current year, as
      provided in the Allocation Regulations.

      5. Section 14. Section 14 of the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

            (a) The second sentence of the definition of "OP UNITS" is hereby
      deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following: "OP Units consist
      of Common OP Units, Preferred OP Units, Series A Preferred Units, Series B
      Preferred Units and Series B-1 Preferred Units."

            (c) The following new definitions are inserted in Section 14
      (Definitions) so as to preserve alphabetical order, and the definition of
      "Series B Preferred Unit Distribution Payment Date" and "Series B Default"
      shall be deleted:

                  "SERIES B CUMULATIVE PREFERRED UNITS" shall have the meaning
            set forth therefor in Section 17.1 hereof.

                  "SERIES B CUMULATIVE PREFERRED UNIT DISTRIBUTION PAYMENT DATE"
            shall have the meaning set forth therefor in Section 17.3(a) hereof.

                  "SERIES B DEFAULT" shall have the meaning set forth therefor
            in Section 17.5(a)(ii) hereof.

                  "SERIES B-1 ISSUANCE DATE" shall mean April 16, 2001.

                  "SERIES B-1 PREFERRED PARTNER" means River Haven Village,
            Inc., a Michigan corporation, and its successors and permitted
            assigns.

                  "SERIES B-1 PREFERRED UNITS" shall have the meaning set forth
            therefor in Section 17.2 hereof.

                  "SERIES B-1 PRIORITY RETURN" shall have the meaning set forth
            therefor in Section 17.1 hereof.

                  "SERIES B-1 REDEMPTION PRICE" shall mean $100 per Series B-1
            Preferred Unit redeemed.

      6. Section 17 of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and
replaced with the following:

      "17. SERIES B CUMULATIVE PREFERRED UNITS.

            SECTION 17.1 DEFINITIONS. The term "SERIES B CUMULATIVE PREFERRED
      UNITS" shall mean the Series B Preferred Units and the Series B-1
      Preferred Units. The term "SERIES B PARITY PREFERRED UNITS" shall mean any
      class or series of OP Units of the Partnership now or hereafter
      authorized, issued or outstanding and expressly designated by the
      Partnership to rank on parity with the Series B Preferred Units and Series
      B-1 Preferred Units with respect to distributions and


                                       3
<PAGE>
      rights upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation, winding-up or
      dissolution of the Partnership. The term "SERIES B PRIORITY RETURN" shall
      mean an amount equal to (i) 7.0% per annum for the First 24 Month Period,
      (ii) 7.5% per annum for the Second 24 Month Period, (iii) 8.0% per annum
      for the First 12 Month Period, and (iv) 9.0% per annum for the Second 12
      Month Period (determined on the basis of a 365 day year), of the stated
      amount of $100.00 per Series B Preferred Unit multiplied by the number of
      outstanding Series B Preferred Units, cumulative to the extent not
      distributed for any given distribution period pursuant to Section 4.3
      hereof. The term "SERIES B-1 PRIORITY RETURN" shall mean an amount equal
      to (i) 6.85% per annum commencing on and including the Series B-1 Issuance
      Date and ending on and including October 15, 2003, (ii) 7.2% per annum
      commencing on and including October 16, 2003 and ending on and including
      April 15, 2006, (iii) 7.6% per annum commencing on and including April 16,
      2006 and ending on and including April 15, 2008, (iv) 8.36% per annum
      commencing on and including April 16, 2008 and ending on and including
      April 15, 2010, and (v) 9.19% per annum thereafter (determined on the
      basis of a 365 day year), of the stated amount of $100.00 per Series B-1
      Preferred Unit multiplied by the number of outstanding Series B-1
      Preferred Units, cumulative to the extent not distributed for any given
      distribution period pursuant to Section 4.3 hereof

            SECTION 17.2 DESIGNATION AND NUMBER. A series of OP Units in the
      Partnership designated as the "SERIES B CUMULATIVE PREFERRED UNITS" is
      hereby established. Of such Series B Cumulative Preferred Units there
      shall be designated Series B Preferred Units ("SERIES B PREFERRED UNITS")
      and Series B-1 Preferred Units ("SERIES B-1 PREFERRED UNITS"). The number
      of Series B Preferred Units shall be 35,637 and the number of Series B-1
      Preferred Units shall be 46,117.

            SECTION 17.3 DISTRIBUTIONS.

                  (a) Payment of Distributions.

                        (i) Subject to the rights of holders of Series A
                  Preferred Units, Parity Preferred Units, Preferred OP Units
                  and Series B Parity Preferred Units as to the payment of
                  distributions pursuant to Sections 4.3, 8.2 and 16.3 of the
                  Agreement, holders of Series B Preferred Units and Series B-1
                  Preferred Units shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if
                  declared by the Partnership acting through the General
                  Partner, out of the Partnership's available cash, the Series B
                  Priority Return and Series B-1 Priority Return, respectively.

                        (ii) All distributions shall be cumulative, shall accrue
                  from the original date of issuance and will be payable (i)
                  quarterly (such quarterly periods for purposes of payment and
                  accrual will be the quarterly periods ending on the dates
                  specified in this sentence) in arrears, on March 31, June 30,
                  September 30 and December 31 of each year, and (ii) in the
                  event of a redemption of Series B Cumulative Preferred Units,
                  on the redemption date (each a "SERIES B CUMULATIVE PREFERRED
                  UNIT DISTRIBUTION PAYMENT DATE"). The amount of the
                  distribution payable for any period will be computed on the
                  basis of a 365-day year and for any period shorter than a full
                  quarterly period for which distributions are computed, the
                  amount of the distribution payable will be computed based on
                  the ratio of the actual number of days elapsed in such period
                  to the actual number of days in such quarterly period. If any
                  date on which distributions are to be made on the Series B
                  Cumulative Preferred Units is not a Business Day (as defined
                  in SECTION 14), then payment of the distribution to be made on
                  such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a
                  Business Day (and without any


                                       4
<PAGE>
                  interest or other payment in respect of any such delay) except
                  that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar
                  year, such payment shall be made on the immediately preceding
                  Business Day, in each case with the same force and effect as
                  if made on such date. Distributions on the Series B Cumulative
                  Preferred Units will be made to the holders of record of the
                  Series B Cumulative Preferred Units on the relevant record
                  dates to be fixed by the Partnership acting through the
                  General Partner, which record dates shall in no event exceed
                  fifteen (15) Business Days prior to the relevant Series B
                  Cumulative Preferred Unit Distribution Payment Date.

                  (b) Distributions Cumulative. Distributions on the Series B
            Cumulative Preferred Units will accrue whether or not the terms and
            provisions of any agreement of the Partnership, including any
            agreement relating to its indebtedness at any time prohibit the
            declaration, setting aside for payment or current payment of
            distributions, whether or not the Partnership has earnings, whether
            or not there are funds legally available for the payment of such of
            such distributions and whether or not such distributions are
            authorized. Accrued but unpaid distributions on the Series B
            Cumulative Preferred Units will accumulate as of the Series B
            Cumulative Preferred Unit Distribution Payment Date on which they
            first become payable. Distributions on account of arrears for any
            past distribution periods may be declared and paid at any time,
            without reference to a regular Series B Cumulative Preferred Unit
            Distribution Payment Date to holders of record of the Series B
            Cumulative Preferred Units on the record date fixed by the
            Partnership acting through the General Partner which date shall not
            exceed fifteen (15) Business Days prior to the payment date.
            Accumulated and unpaid distributions will not bear interest.

                  (c) Priority as to Distributions.

                        (i) So long as any Series B Cumulative Preferred Units
                  are outstanding, no distribution of cash or other property
                  shall be authorized, declared, paid or set apart for payment
                  on or with respect to any class or series of OP Units of the
                  Partnership ranking junior as to the payment of distributions
                  or rights upon a voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
                  dissolution or winding-up of the Partnership to the Series B
                  Cumulative Preferred Units (collectively, "SERIES B JUNIOR
                  UNITS"), nor shall any cash or other property be set aside for
                  or applied to the purchase, redemption or other acquisition
                  for consideration of any Series B Cumulative Preferred Units,
                  any Series B Parity Preferred Units or any Series B Junior
                  Units, unless, in each case, all distributions accumulated on
                  all Series B Cumulative Preferred Units and all classes and
                  series of outstanding Series B Parity Preferred Units have
                  been paid in full. The foregoing sentence will not prohibit
                  (a) distributions payable solely in OP Units ranking junior to
                  the Series B Cumulative Preferred Units as to the payment of
                  distributions and rights upon a voluntary or involuntary
                  liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Partnership, (b)
                  the conversion of Series B Junior Units or Series B Parity
                  Preferred Units into OP Units of the Partnership ranking
                  junior to the Series B Cumulative Preferred Units as to
                  distributions and rights upon a voluntary or involuntary
                  liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Partnership, or
                  (c) the redemption of OP Units corresponding to any Junior
                  Stock (as defined in the Series A Articles Supplementary) to
                  be purchased by the General Partner pursuant to Article VII of
                  the Charter to preserve the General Partner's status as a real
                  estate investment trust, provided that such redemption shall
                  be upon the same terms as the corresponding purchase pursuant
                  to Article VII of the Charter.


                                       5
<PAGE>
                        (ii) So long as distributions have not been paid in full
                  (or a sum sufficient for such full payment is not irrevocably
                  deposited in trust for immediate payment) upon the Series B
                  Cumulative Preferred Units, all distributions authorized and
                  declared on the Series B Cumulative Preferred Units and all
                  classes or series of outstanding Series B Parity Preferred
                  Units shall be authorized and declared so that the amount of
                  distributions authorized and declared per Series B Cumulative
                  Preferred Unit and such other classes or series of Series B
                  Parity Preferred Units shall in all cases bear to each other
                  the same ratio that accrued distributions per Series B
                  Cumulative Preferred Unit and such other classes or series of
                  Series B Parity Preferred Units (which shall not include any
                  accumulation in respect of unpaid distributions for prior
                  distribution periods if such class or series of Series B
                  Parity Preferred Units do not have cumulative distribution
                  rights) bear to each other.

                        (iii) The Series B Cumulative Preferred Units and any
                  Series B Parity Preferred Units shall be deemed to be "Junior
                  Units" as defined in Section 16.3(c) hereof, and so long as
                  any Series A Preferred Units or Parity Preferred Units are
                  outstanding, no distribution of cash or other property shall
                  be authorized, declared, paid or set apart for payment on or
                  with respect to the Series B Cumulative Preferred Units or any
                  Series B Parity Preferred Units, nor shall any cash or other
                  property be set aside for or applied to the purchase,
                  redemption or other acquisition for consideration of any
                  Series B Cumulative Preferred Units or Series B Parity
                  Preferred Units unless, in each case, all distributions
                  accumulated on all Series A Preferred Units and all classes
                  and series of outstanding Parity Preferred Units have been
                  paid in full.

                  (d) Distributions on OP Units held by General Partner.
            Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, distributions on OP
            Units held by the General Partner may be made, without preserving
            the priority of distributions described in Section 17.3(c)(i) and
            (ii), but only to the extent such distributions are required to
            preserve the real estate investment trust status of the General
            Partner.

                  (e) No Further Rights. Holders of Series B Cumulative
            Preferred Units shall not be entitled to any distributions, whether
            payable in cash, other property or otherwise, in excess of the full
            cumulative distributions described herein.

            SECTION 17.4 LIQUIDATION PROCEEDS.

                  (a) Notice. Written notice of any voluntary or involuntary
            liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Partnership, stating
            the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where, the
            amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall
            be given by (i) fax and (ii) by first class mail, postage pre-paid,
            not less than thirty (30) and not more than sixty (60) days prior to
            the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the Series
            B Cumulative Preferred Units at the respective addresses of such
            holders as the same shall appear on the transfer records of the
            Partnership.

                  (b) No Further Rights. After payment of the full amount of the
            liquidating distributions to which they are entitled pursuant to
            Section 8.2 hereof, the holders of


                                       6
<PAGE>
            Series B Cumulative Preferred Units will have no right or claim to
            any of the remaining assets of the Partnership.

                  (c) Consolidation, Merger or Certain Other Transactions. The
            voluntary sale, conveyance, lease, exchange or transfer (for cash,
            shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or
            substantially all of the property or assets of the General Partner
            to, or the consolidation or merger or other business combination of
            the Partnership with or into, any corporation, trust, partnership,
            limited liability company or other entity (or of any corporation,
            trust, partnership, limited liability company or other entity with
            or into the Partnership) shall not be deemed to constitute a
            liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Partnership.

            SECTION 17.5 REDEMPTION.

                  (a) Series B Preferred

                        (i) Mandatory Redemption. Subject to the limitations in
                  this Section 17.5, the holders of Series B Preferred Units may
                  request redemption of, and the Partnership shall redeem, for
                  cash, Series B Preferred Units on the following terms and
                  subject to the following conditions:

                              (A) On May 1, 2003 the holders of Series B
                        Preferred Units may require that the Partnership redeem
                        an aggregate of 10,000 Series B Preferred Units upon not
                        less than sixty (60) days prior written notice, at the
                        Series B Redemption Price.

                              (B) On May 1, 2004 and May 1, 2005 the holders of
                        Series B Preferred Units may require that the
                        Partnership redeem all outstanding Series B Preferred
                        Units upon not less than sixty (60) days prior written
                        notice at the Series B Redemption Price.

                              (C) On May 1, 2006, the Partnership shall redeem
                        all outstanding Series B Preferred Units at the Series B
                        Redemption Price.

                        (ii) Redemption in the Event of a Series B Default. The
                  Partnership shall redeem, for cash, all outstanding Series B
                  Preferred Units at the Series B Redemption Price in the event
                  the Partnership fails to declare and pay on any Series B
                  Cumulative Preferred Unit Distribution Payment Date the Series
                  B Priority Return for any reason including the failure to
                  declare a distribution of the Series B Priority Return (a
                  "SERIES B DEFAULT"). Such redemption shall occur fifteen (15)
                  days after written demand of the holders of Series B Preferred
                  Units is received by the Partnership, provided such notice is
                  received by the Partnership no later than thirty (30) days
                  after the Series B Cumulative Preferred Unit Distribution
                  Payment Date that is the subject of the Series B Default.
                  Failure of the holders of Series B Preferred Units to timely
                  give such notice shall terminate the right of the holders of
                  Series B Preferred Units under this Section 17.5(a)(ii) to
                  demand redemption with respect to the Series B Default to
                  which such notice relates, but shall not effect the rights of
                  the holders of Series B Preferred Units under this Section
                  17.5(a)(ii) for any subsequent Series B Default.


                                       7
<PAGE>
                        (iii) Procedures for Redemption.

                              (A) Notice of redemption will be (x) faxed and (y)
                        mailed by the holders of Series B Preferred Units, by
                        certified mail, postage prepaid, to the Partnership so
                        that notice is received by the Partnership within the
                        periods set forth herein and in accordance with the
                        provisions hereof. Each such notice shall: (1) state the
                        aggregate number of Series B Preferred Units to be
                        redeemed and if fewer than all of the outstanding Series
                        B Preferred Units are to be redeemed, the number of
                        Series B Preferred Units to be redeemed held by such
                        holder, which number shall equal such holder's pro rata
                        share (based on the percentage of the aggregate number
                        of outstanding Series B Preferred Units the total number
                        of Series B Preferred Units held by such holder
                        represents) of the aggregate number of Series B
                        Preferred Units to be redeemed and (2) refer to the
                        specific subsection of this Section 17.5 pursuant to
                        which such redemption is being effected. Any such notice
                        shall be irrevocable.

                              (B) By 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the
                        redemption date, the Partnership will deposit
                        irrevocably in trust with Boston Equiserve, its transfer
                        agent (or any successor entity, provided such entity is
                        a third party, unrelated to the Company and the
                        Partnership) for the benefit of the Series B Preferred
                        Units being redeemed funds sufficient to pay the Series
                        B Redemption Price and will give irrevocable
                        instructions to such transfer agent and authority to pay
                        such Series B Redemption Price to the holders of the
                        Series B Preferred Units upon surrender of the Series B
                        Preferred Units by such holders at the place designated
                        by the Partnership. If the Series B Preferred Units are
                        evidenced by a certificate and if fewer than all Series
                        B Preferred Units evidenced by any certificate are being
                        redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued upon
                        surrender of the certificate evidencing all Series B
                        Preferred Units, evidencing the unredeemed Series B
                        Preferred Units without cost to the holder thereof. On
                        and after the date of redemption, distributions will
                        cease to accumulate on the Series B Preferred Units or
                        portions thereof called for redemption, unless the
                        Partnership defaults in the payment of the Series B
                        Redemption Price. If any date fixed for redemption of
                        Series B Preferred Units is not a Business Day, then
                        payment of the Series B Redemption Price payable on such
                        date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a
                        Business Day (and without any interest or other payment
                        in respect of any such delay) except that, if such
                        Business Day falls in the next calendar year, such
                        payment will be made on the immediately preceding
                        Business Day, in each case with the same force and
                        effect as if made on such date fixed for redemption. If
                        payment of the Series B Redemption Price is improperly
                        withheld or refused and not paid by the Partnership,
                        distributions on such Series B Preferred Units will
                        continue to accumulate from the original redemption date
                        to the date of payment, in which case the actual payment
                        date will be considered the date fixed for redemption
                        for purposes of calculating the Series B Redemption
                        Price.

                  (b) Series B-1 Preferred Units


                                       8
<PAGE>
                        (i) Mandatory Redemption. Subject to the limitations in
                  this Section 17.5, during the ninety (90) day period
                  immediately following (x) each anniversary of the Series B-1
                  Issuance Date commencing with the fifth anniversary of the
                  Series B-1 Issuance Date or (y) the Partnership's receipt of
                  notice of Vern Slagh's death, the Series B-1 Preferred Partner
                  may require redemption of, and the Partnership shall redeem,
                  for cash, at the Series B-1 Redemption Price, all, but not
                  less than all, of the Series B-1 Preferred Partner's Series
                  B-1 Preferred Units upon not less than sixty (60) days' prior
                  written notice to the Partnership.

                        (ii) Optional Redemption. At any time after the
                  expiration of the Election Periods, as defined in (b)(i)
                  above, immediately following the eleventh anniversary of the
                  Series B-1 Issuance Date, the Partnership may redeem all
                  outstanding Series B-1 Preferred Units at the Series B-1
                  Redemption Price upon not less than fifteen (15) days' prior
                  written notice to the Series B-1 Preferred Partner.

                        (iii) Procedures for Redemption.

                              (A) Notice of redemption will be (x) faxed and (y)
                        mailed by the Series B-1 Preferred Partner, by certified
                        mail, postage prepaid, to the Partnership so that notice
                        is received by the Partnership within the periods set
                        forth herein and in accordance with the provisions
                        hereof. Any such notice shall be irrevocable.

                              (B) By 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the
                        redemption date, the Partnership will deposit
                        irrevocably in trust with Boston Equiserve, its transfer
                        agent (or any successor entity, provided such entity is
                        a third party, unrelated to the Company and the
                        Partnership) for the benefit of the Series B-1 Preferred
                        Partner funds sufficient to pay the Series B-1
                        Redemption Price and will give irrevocable instructions
                        to such transfer agent and authority to pay such Series
                        B-1 Redemption Price to the Series B-1 Preferred Partner
                        upon surrender of the Series B-1 Preferred Units by the
                        Series B-1 Preferred Partner at the place designated by
                        the Partnership. On and after the date of redemption,
                        distributions will cease to accumulate on the Series B-1
                        Preferred Units, unless the Partnership defaults in the
                        payment of the Series B-1 Redemption Price. If any date
                        fixed for redemption of Series B-1 Preferred Units is
                        not a Business Day, then payment of the Series B-1
                        Redemption Price payable on such date will be made on
                        the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and
                        without any interest or other payment in respect of any
                        such delay) except that, if such Business Day falls in
                        the next calendar year, such payment will be made on the
                        immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with
                        the same force and effect as if made on such date fixed
                        for redemption. If payment of the Series B-1 Redemption
                        Price is improperly withheld or refused and not paid by
                        the Partnership, distributions on such Series B-1
                        Preferred Units will continue to accumulate from the
                        original redemption date to the date of payment, in
                        which case the actual payment date will be considered
                        the date fixed for redemption for purposes of
                        calculating the Series B-1 Redemption Price.


                                       9
<PAGE>
                  (c) Limitations on Redemption. Any redemption pursuant to this
            Section 17.5 is subject to and limited by the provisions of Section
            16.3(c)(i) hereof.

            SECTION 17.6 VOTING RIGHTS. Holders of the Series B Cumulative
      Preferred Units will not have any voting rights or right to consent to any
      matter requiring the consent or approval of the Limited Partners.

            SECTION 17.7 TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS. The Series B Cumulative
      Preferred Units shall be subject to the provisions of SECTION 9 of the
      Agreement.

            SECTION 17.8 CONVERSION AND EXCHANGE RIGHTS.

            (a) General. The holders of Series B Preferred Units shall be
      entitled to convert Series B Preferred Units into Common OP Units or
      exchange Series B Preferred Units for shares of the General Partner's
      common stock, at their option, on the following terms and subject to the
      following conditions:

                  (i) On May 1, 2002, the holders of Series B Preferred Units
            may convert an aggregate of 10,000 Series B Preferred Units into
            22,727 Common OP Units or exchange an aggregate of 10,000 Series B
            Preferred Units for 22,727 shares of the General Partner's common
            stock, or any combination thereof at conversion or exchange rate of
            2.272727 Common OP Units or shares of the General Partner's common
            stock, as the case may be, for each Series B Preferred Unit (rounded
            to the lower whole number), at their option, provided the General
            Partner has received at least sixty (60) days prior written notice
            of such conversion or exchange, such notice to specify the number of
            Common OP Units and number of shares of the General Partner's common
            stock to which the Series B Preferred Units are to be converted or
            exchanged.

                  (ii) On each of May 1, 2003, May 1, 2004, May 1, 2005 and May
            1, 2006, the holders of Series B Preferred Units may convert all or
            any portion (but not less than 10,000) Series B Preferred Units to
            Common OP Units or exchange all or any portion (but not less than
            10,000) Series B Preferred Units for shares of the General Partner's
            common stock, at their option, at a conversion and exchange rate of
            2.272727 Common OP Units or shares of the General Partner's common
            stock, as the case may be, for each Series B Preferred Unit (rounded
            to the lower whole number), provided the General Partner has
            received at least sixty (60) days prior written notice of such
            conversion or exchange, such notice to specify the number of Common
            OP Units and number of shares of the General Partner's common stock
            to which the Series B Preferred Units are to be converted or
            exchanged.

            (b) Procedure for Conversion or Exchange.

                  (i) Any conversion or exchange shall be exercised pursuant to
            a notice of conversion or exchange (the "SERIES B
            CONVERSION/EXCHANGE NOTICE") delivered to the General Partner by the
            holder who is exercising such conversion or exchange right, by (A)
            fax and (B) by certified mail postage prepaid. The Series B
            Conversion/Exchange Notice and certificates, if any, representing
            such Series B Preferred Units to be converted or exchanged shall be
            delivered to the office of the General Partner maintained for such
            purpose. Currently, such office is:


                                       10
<PAGE>
                                 Sun Communities, Inc.
                                 Suite 145
                                 31700 Middlebelt Road
                                 Farmington Hills, Michigan 48334.

            Any conversion or exchange hereunder shall be effective as of the
            close of business on the conversion or exchange date. The holders of
            the converted or exchanged Series B Preferred Units shall be deemed
            to have surrendered the same to the Partnership or the General
            Partner, as the case may be, and the Partnership or the General
            Partner, as the case may be, shall be deemed to have issued Common
            OP Units or shares of common stock of the General Partner, as
            applicable, at the close of business on the conversion or exchange
            date.

            (c) Adjustment of Series B Conversion/Exchange Rate.

                  (i) The conversion/exchange rate is subject to adjustment upon
            subdivisions, stock splits, stock dividends, combinations and
            reclassification of the common stock of the General Partner.

                  (ii) In case the General Partner shall be a party to any
            transaction (including, without limitation, a merger, consolidation,
            statutory share exchange, tender offer for all or substantially all
            of the General Partner's capital stock or sale of all or
            substantially all of the General Partner's assets), in each case as
            a result of which the General Partner's common stock will be
            converted into the right to receive shares of capital stock, other
            securities or other property (including cash or any combination
            thereof), each Series B Preferred Unit will thereafter be
            convertible or exchangeable into the kind and amount of shares of
            capital stock and other securities and property receivable
            (including cash or any combination thereof) upon the consummation of
            such transaction by a holder of that number of shares of the General
            Partner's common stock or fraction thereof into which one Series B
            Preferred Unit was convertible or exchangeable immediately prior to
            such transaction

            (d) Limitations on Conversion and Exchange. Notwithstanding Section
      17.8(a):

                  (i) Upon tender of any Series B Preferred Units to the General
            Partner pursuant to that Section, the General Partner may issue cash
            in lieu of stock to the extent necessary to prevent the recipient
            from violating the Ownership Limitations of Section 2 of Article VII
            of the Charter, or corresponding provisions of any amendment or
            restatement thereof; and

                  (ii) A holder of Series B Preferred Units will not have the
            right to exchange Series B Preferred Units for the General Partner's
            common stock if (1) in the opinion of counsel for the General
            Partner, the General Partner would no longer qualify or its status
            would be seriously compromised as a real estate investment trust
            under the Internal Revenue Code as a result of such exchange; or (2)
            such exchange would, in the opinion of counsel for the General
            Partner, constitute or be likely to constitute a violation of
            applicable securities laws. In the event of either such occurrence,
            the General Partner shall purchase such holder's Series B Preferred
            Units for cash at a purchase price of $100 per Series B Preferred
            Unit.


                                       11
<PAGE>
            (e) Reservation of Common Stock. The General Partner shall at all
      times reserve and keep available a sufficient number of authorized but
      unissued shares of common stock to permit the exchange of all of the
      outstanding Series B Preferred Units pursuant to this Section 17.8.

            (f) Payment of Series B Priority Return. On the Series B Cumulative
      Preferred Unit Distribution Payment Date next following a conversion or
      exchange date, holders of Series B Preferred Units converted or exchanged
      on such date shall be entitled to Series B Priority Return in an amount
      equal to a prorated portion of the Series B Priority Return based on the
      number of days elapsed from the prior Series B Cumulative Preferred Unit
      Distribution Payment Date through, but not including, the conversion or
      exchange date.

            SECTION 17.9 NO SINKING FUND. No sinking fund shall be established
      for the retirement or redemption of Series B Cumulative Preferred Units.

      8. Governing Law. This Amendment shall be interpreted and enforced
according to the laws of the State of Michigan.

      9. Full Force and Effect. Except as amended by the provisions hereof, the
Agreement, as previously amended, shall remain in full force and effect in
accordance with its terms and is hereby ratified, confirmed and reaffirmed by
the undersigned for all purposes and in all respects.

      10. Successors/Assigns. This Amendment shall be binding upon and shall
inure to the benefit of the parties hereto, their respective legal
representatives, successors and assigns.

      11. Counterparts. This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, all of
which together shall constitute one agreement binding on all the parties hereto,
notwithstanding that all such parties are not signatories to the original or the
same counterpart.

                        (SIGNATURES APPEAR ON NEXT PAGE)


                                       12
<PAGE>
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Amendment as of
the day and year first above written.


                                   GENERAL PARTNER

                                   SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.. a Maryland corporation

                                   By: /s/ Jonathan M. Colman
                                      --------------------------------------
                                        Name: Jonathan M. Colman
                                        Title: Senior Vice President -
                                               Acquisitions


                                   NEW LIMITED PARTNER

                                   RIVER HAVEN VILLAGE, INC., a Michigan
                                   corporation

                                   By: /s/ Vern Slagh
                                      --------------------------------------
                                        Vern Slagh, President


                                       13

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.37
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-37.txt
<DESCRIPTION>145TH AMENDMENT TO 2ND AMENDED PARTNERSHIP AGRMT.
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.37

                        ONE HUNDRED FORTY-FIFTH AMENDMENT
                                     TO THE
            SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED LIMITED PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT
                                       OF
                  SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

      THIS ONE HUNDRED FORTY-FIFTH AMENDMENT TO THE SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED
LIMITED PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT OF SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
(this "AMENDMENT") is made and entered into as of January 31, 2002, by and
between SUN COMMUNITIES, INC., a Maryland corporation (the "GENERAL PARTNER"),
as the general partner of SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a
Michigan limited partnership (the "PARTNERSHIP"), and BAY AREA LIMITED
PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited partnership (the "SERIES B-2 PREFERRED
PARTNER").

                                    RECITALS

      A. The Series B-2 Preferred Partner and the Partnership are parties to
that certain Contribution Agreement, of even date herewith (the "Contribution
Agreement"), pursuant to which the Series B-2 Preferred Partner has agreed to
contribute to the Partnership the Transferred Membership Interests (as defined
in the Contribution Agreement) in consideration for the issuance by the
Partnership of Series B-2 Preferred Units (as hereinafter defined).

      B. The signatories hereto desire to amend that certain Second Amended and
Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Sun Communities Operating Limited
Partnership, dated as of April 30, 1996, as amended by those certain amendments
numbered one through one hundred forty-four (collectively, as amended, the
"Agreement") as set forth herein; any capitalized term not defined herein shall
have the respective meaning ascribed to it in the Agreement.

      C. Section 11 of the Agreement authorizes the General Partner, as the
holder of more than fifty percent (50%) of the OP Units, to amend the Agreement.

      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, of the mutual promises
set forth herein, and of other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to
be legally bound, agree to continue the Partnership and amend the Agreement as
follows:

      1. Admission of New Partners. As of the date hereof, the Series B-2
Preferred Partner has contributed the Transferred Membership Interests, with a
net agreed upon value of [$15,000,000], to the Partnership in exchange for the
assumption of the Comerica Debt and the Morse Debt (as such terms are defined in
the Contribution Agreement) and the issuance to the Series B-2 Preferred Partner
of 100,000 Series B-2 Preferred Units. The Series B-2 Preferred Units issued to
the Series B-2 Preferred Partner have been duly issued and fully paid. The
Series B-2 Preferred Partner is hereby admitted to the Partnership as a new
Limited Partner, and by execution of this Amendment the Series B-2 Preferred
Partner has agreed to be bound by all of the terms and conditions of the
Agreement, as amended hereby, and hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the
Agreement. Exhibit A of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and is
replaced with EXHIBIT A to this Amendment.

      2. Sections 3.1 and 3.2. Sections 3.1 and 3.2 of the Agreement are hereby
deleted in their entirety and replaced with the following:
<PAGE>

      "3.1 OP UNITS

            The Partners' interests in the Partnership are expressed in terms of
      OP Units and each Partner has been issued OP Units corresponding to the
      agreed value of its capital contribution. OP Units consist of Common OP
      Units, Preferred OP Units, Series A Preferred Units, Series B Preferred
      Units, Series B-1 Preferred Units and Series B-2 Preferred Units.

      3.2 COMMON OP UNITS

            The holders of the Common OP Units shall be entitled to receive
      distributions in accordance with Section 4.3, after payment of all accrued
      (i) Preferred Dividends, (ii) Series A Priority Return, (iii) Series B
      Priority Return, (iv) Series B-1 Priority Return and (v) Series B-2
      Priority Return. No distribution shall be made in respect of Common OP
      Units while any accrued (i) Preferred Dividends, (ii) Series A Priority
      Return, (iii) Series B Priority Return, (iv) Series B-1 Priority Return or
      (v) Series B-2 Priority Return remains unpaid unless all such unpaid
      amounts are paid simultaneously with such distribution."

      3. Section 4.2 (a)(v) of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety
and replaced with the following:

            "(v) fifth, with respect to OP Units other than Series A Preferred
      Units, pro rata in proportion to the number of OP Units other than Series
      A Preferred Units, held by each such Partner as of the last day of the
      period for which such allocation is being made; provided, however, that
      the profits allocated to any Preferred OP Units, Series B Preferred Units,
      Series B-1 Preferred Units and Series B-2 Preferred Units pursuant to this
      Section 4.2(b)(v) for any calendar year shall not exceed the amount of
      Preferred Dividends, Series B Priority Return, Series B-1 Priority Return
      and Series B-2 Priority Return, respectively, thereon for that calendar
      year, and any such excess profits remaining after the application of such
      limitation shall be allocated to the holders of the Common OP Units, pro
      rata."

      4. Section 8.2(a) of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and
replaced with the following:

      "8.2 LIQUIDATING DISTRIBUTIONS; RESTORATION OF CAPITAL ACCOUNT DEFICITS

            Upon the liquidation of the Partnership or any Partner's interest in
      the Partnership, within the meaning of the Allocation Regulations:

            (a) The capital accounts of the holders of the OP Units shall be
      adjusted to reflect the manner in which any unrealized income, gain, loss
      and deduction inherent in the Partnership's property, which has not
      previously been reflected in the Partners' capital accounts, would be
      allocated among the Partners if there were a taxable disposition of such
      property at fair market value on the date of distribution. Any resulting
      increase in the Partners' capital accounts shall be allocated (i) first to
      the holders of the Preferred OP Units and Series A Preferred Units in
      proportions and amounts sufficient to bring their respective capital
      account balances up to the amount of the Issue Prices of their respective
      Preferred OP Units and Series A Preferred Units plus accrued and unpaid
      Preferred Dividends or Series A Priority Return, as the case may be,
      thereon, (ii) second to the holders of the Series B Cumulative Preferred
      Units in proportions and amounts sufficient to bring their respective
      capital account balances up to the amount of the Issue Price of the Series
      B Cumulative Preferred Units plus accrued and unpaid Series B Priority
      Return, Series B-1 Priority Return and Series B-2 Priority Return, as
      applicable, thereon, and (iii)


                                       2
<PAGE>

      third (if any) to the Common OP Units. Any resulting decrease in the
      Partners' capital accounts shall first be allocated (i) first to the
      holders of the Common OP Units in proportions and amounts sufficient to
      reduce their respective capital account balances to zero, (ii) second to
      the holders of Series B Cumulative Preferred Units in proportions and
      amounts sufficient to reduce their respective capital account balances to
      zero, (iii) third to the holders of the Preferred OP Units and Series A
      Preferred Units in proportions and amounts sufficient to reduce their
      respective capital account balances to zero, and (iv) (if any) to the
      General Partner. Liquidating distributions shall be made in accordance
      with the positive capital account balances of the Partners, after giving
      effect to such adjustment and other capital account adjustments for the
      current year, as provided in the Allocation Regulations.

      5. Section 14. Section 14 of the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

            (a) The second sentence of the definition of "OP UNITS" is hereby
      deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following: "OP Units consist
      of Common OP Units, Preferred OP Units, Series A Preferred Units, Series B
      Preferred Units, Series B-1 Preferred Units and Series B-2 Preferred
      Units."

            (b) The following new definitions are inserted in Section 14
      (Definitions) so as to preserve alphabetical order, and the definition of
      "Series B Preferred Unit Distribution Payment Date" and "Series B Default"
      shall be deleted:

                  "CHANGE IN CONTROL" shall have the meaning set forth therefor
            in Section 17.5(c) hereof.

                  "SERIES B-2 ISSUANCE DATE" shall mean January 31, 2002.

                  "SERIES B-2 PREFERRED PARTNER" means Bay Area Limited
            Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership, and its successors and
            permitted assigns.

                  "SERIES B-2 PREFERRED UNITS" shall have the meaning set forth
            therefor in Section 17.2 hereof.

                  "SERIES B-2 PRIORITY RETURN" shall have the meaning set forth
            therefor in Section 17.1 hereof.

                  "SERIES B-2 REDEMPTION PRICE" shall mean $45 per Series B-2
            Preferred Unit redeemed.

      6. Section 17 of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and
replaced with the following:

      "17. SERIES B CUMULATIVE PREFERRED UNITS.

            SECTION 17.1 DEFINITIONS. The term "SERIES B CUMULATIVE PREFERRED
      UNITS" shall mean the Series B Preferred Units, the Series B-1 Preferred
      Units, and the Series B-2 Preferred Units. The term "SERIES B PARITY
      PREFERRED UNITS" shall mean any class or series of OP Units of the
      Partnership now or hereafter authorized, issued or outstanding and
      expressly designated by the Partnership to rank on parity with the Series
      B Preferred Units, Series B-1 Preferred Units, and Series B-2 Preferred
      Units with respect to distributions and rights upon voluntary or
      involuntary liquidation, winding-up or dissolution of the Partnership. The
      term "SERIES B


                                       3
<PAGE>

      PRIORITY RETURN" shall mean an amount equal to (i) 7.0% per annum for the
      First 24 Month Period, (ii) 7.5% per annum for the Second 24 Month Period,
      (iii) 8.0% per annum for the First 12 Month Period, and (iv) 9.0% per
      annum for the Second 12 Month Period (determined on the basis of a 365 day
      year), of the stated amount of $100.00 per Series B Preferred Unit
      multiplied by the number of outstanding Series B Preferred Units,
      cumulative to the extent not distributed for any given distribution period
      pursuant to Section 4.3 hereof. The term "SERIES B-1 PRIORITY RETURN"
      shall mean an amount equal to (i) 6.85% per annum commencing on and
      including the Series B-1 Issuance Date and ending on and including October
      15, 2003, (ii) 7.2% per annum commencing on and including October 16, 2003
      and ending on and including April 15, 2006, (iii) 7.6% per annum
      commencing on and including April 16, 2006 and ending on and including
      April 15, 2008, (iv) 8.36% per annum commencing on and including April 16,
      2008 and ending on and including April 15, 2010, and (v) 9.19% per annum
      thereafter (determined on the basis of a 365 day year), of the stated
      amount of $100.00 per Series B-1 Preferred Unit multiplied by the number
      of outstanding Series B-1 Preferred Units, cumulative to the extent not
      distributed for any given distribution period pursuant to Section 4.3
      hereof. The term "SERIES B-2 PRIORITY RETURN" shall mean an amount equal
      to (i) 6.0% per annum commencing on and including the Series B-2 Issuance
      Date and ending on and including January 31, 2007, and (ii) 7.0% per annum
      thereafter (determined on the basis of a 365 day year), of the stated
      amount of $45.00 per Series B-2 Preferred Unit multiplied by the number of
      outstanding Series B-2 Preferred Units, cumulative to the extent not
      distributed for any given distribution period pursuant to Section 4.3
      hereof.

            SECTION 17.2 DESIGNATION AND NUMBER. A series of OP Units in the
      Partnership designated as the "Series B Cumulative Preferred Units" is
      hereby established. Of such Series B Cumulative Preferred Units there
      shall be designated Series B Preferred Units ("SERIES B PREFERRED UNITS"),
      Series B-1 Preferred Units ("SERIES B-1 PREFERRED UNITS") and Series B-2
      Preferred Units ("SERIES B-2 PREFERRED UNITS"). The number of Series B
      Preferred Units shall be 35,637, the number of Series B-1 Preferred Units
      shall be 46,117, and the number of Series B-2 Preferred Units shall be
      100,000.

            SECTION 17.3 DISTRIBUTIONS.

                  (a) Payment of Distributions.

                        (i) Subject to the rights of holders of Series A
                  Preferred Units, Parity Preferred Units, Preferred OP Units
                  and Series B Parity Preferred Units as to the payment of
                  distributions pursuant to Sections 4.3, 8.2 and 16.3 of the
                  Agreement, holders of Series B Preferred Units, Series B-1
                  Preferred Units and Series B-2 Preferred Units shall be
                  entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the
                  Partnership acting through the General Partner, out of the
                  Partnership's available cash, the Series B Priority Return,
                  Series B-1 Priority Return, and Series B-2 Priority Return,
                  respectively.

                        (ii) All distributions shall be cumulative, shall accrue
                  from the original date of issuance and will be payable (i)
                  quarterly (such quarterly periods for purposes of payment and
                  accrual will be the quarterly periods ending on the dates
                  specified in this sentence) in arrears, on March 31, June 30,
                  September 30 and December 31 of each year, and (ii) in the
                  event of a redemption of Series B Cumulative Preferred Units,
                  on the redemption date (each a "SERIES B CUMULATIVE PREFERRED
                  UNIT DISTRIBUTION PAYMENT DATE"). The amount of the
                  distribution payable for any period will be computed on the
                  basis of a 365-day year and for any period shorter than a full
                  quarterly period for which distributions


                                       4
<PAGE>

                  are computed, the amount of the distribution payable will be
                  computed based on the ratio of the actual number of days
                  elapsed in such period to the actual number of days in such
                  quarterly period. If any date on which distributions are to be
                  made on the Series B Cumulative Preferred Units is not a
                  Business Day (as defined in Section 14), then payment of the
                  distribution to be made on such date will be made on the next
                  succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any
                  interest or other payment in respect of any such delay) except
                  that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar
                  year, such payment shall be made on the immediately preceding
                  Business Day, in each case with the same force and effect as
                  if made on such date. Distributions on the Series B Cumulative
                  Preferred Units will be made to the holders of record of the
                  Series B Cumulative Preferred Units on the relevant record
                  dates to be fixed by the Partnership acting through the
                  General Partner, which record dates shall in no event exceed
                  fifteen (15) Business Days prior to the relevant Series B
                  Cumulative Preferred Unit Distribution Payment Date.

                  (b) Distributions Cumulative. Distributions on the Series B
            Cumulative Preferred Units will accrue whether or not the terms and
            provisions of any agreement of the Partnership, including any
            agreement relating to its indebtedness at any time prohibit the
            declaration, setting aside for payment or current payment of
            distributions, whether or not the Partnership has earnings, whether
            or not there are funds legally available for the payment of such of
            such distributions and whether or not such distributions are
            authorized. Accrued but unpaid distributions on the Series B
            Cumulative Preferred Units will accumulate as of the Series B
            Cumulative Preferred Unit Distribution Payment Date on which they
            first become payable. Distributions on account of arrears for any
            past distribution periods may be declared and paid at any time,
            without reference to a regular Series B Cumulative Preferred Unit
            Distribution Payment Date to holders of record of the Series B
            Cumulative Preferred Units on the record date fixed by the
            Partnership acting through the General Partner which date shall not
            exceed fifteen (15) Business Days prior to the payment date.
            Accumulated and unpaid distributions will not bear interest.

                  (c) Priority as to Distributions.

                        (i) So long as any Series B Cumulative Preferred Units
                  are outstanding, no distribution of cash or other property
                  shall be authorized, declared, paid or set apart for payment
                  on or with respect to any class or series of OP Units of the
                  Partnership ranking junior as to the payment of distributions
                  or rights upon a voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
                  dissolution or winding-up of the Partnership to the Series B
                  Cumulative Preferred Units (collectively, "SERIES B JUNIOR
                  UNITS"), nor shall any cash or other property be set aside for
                  or applied to the purchase, redemption or other acquisition
                  for consideration of any Series B Cumulative Preferred Units,
                  any Series B Parity Preferred Units or any Series B Junior
                  Units, unless, in each case, all distributions accumulated on
                  all Series B Cumulative Preferred Units and all classes and
                  series of outstanding Series B Parity Preferred Units have
                  been paid in full. The foregoing sentence will not prohibit
                  (a) distributions payable solely in OP Units ranking junior to
                  the Series B Cumulative Preferred Units as to the payment of
                  distributions and rights upon a voluntary or involuntary
                  liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Partnership, (b)
                  the conversion of Series B Junior Units or Series B Parity
                  Preferred Units into OP Units of the Partnership ranking
                  junior to the Series B Cumulative Preferred Units as to
                  distributions and rights upon a voluntary or


                                       5
<PAGE>

                  involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the
                  Partnership, or (c) the redemption of OP Units corresponding
                  to any Junior Stock (as defined in the Series A Articles
                  Supplementary) to be purchased by the General Partner pursuant
                  to Article VII of the Charter to preserve the General
                  Partner's status as a real estate investment trust, provided
                  that such redemption shall be upon the same terms as the
                  corresponding purchase pursuant to Article VII of the Charter.

                        (ii) So long as distributions have not been paid in full
                  (or a sum sufficient for such full payment is not irrevocably
                  deposited in trust for immediate payment) upon the Series B
                  Cumulative Preferred Units, all distributions authorized and
                  declared on the Series B Cumulative Preferred Units and all
                  classes or series of outstanding Series B Parity Preferred
                  Units shall be authorized and declared so that the amount of
                  distributions authorized and declared per Series B Cumulative
                  Preferred Unit and such other classes or series of Series B
                  Parity Preferred Units shall in all cases bear to each other
                  the same ratio that accrued distributions per Series B
                  Cumulative Preferred Unit and such other classes or series of
                  Series B Parity Preferred Units (which shall not include any
                  accumulation in respect of unpaid distributions for prior
                  distribution periods if such class or series of Series B
                  Parity Preferred Units do not have cumulative distribution
                  rights) bear to each other.

                        (iii) The Series B Cumulative Preferred Units and any
                  Series B Parity Preferred Units shall be deemed to be "Junior
                  Units" as defined in Section 16.3(c) hereof, and so long as
                  any Series A Preferred Units or Parity Preferred Units are
                  outstanding, no distribution of cash or other property shall
                  be authorized, declared, paid or set apart for payment on or
                  with respect to the Series B Cumulative Preferred Units or any
                  Series B Parity Preferred Units, nor shall any cash or other
                  property be set aside for or applied to the purchase,
                  redemption or other acquisition for consideration of any
                  Series B Cumulative Preferred Units or Series B Parity
                  Preferred Units unless, in each case, all distributions
                  accumulated on all Series A Preferred Units and all classes
                  and series of outstanding Parity Preferred Units have been
                  paid in full.

                  (d) Distributions on OP Units held by General Partner.
            Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, distributions on OP
            Units held by the General Partner may be made, without preserving
            the priority of distributions described in Section 17.3(c)(i) and
            (ii), but only to the extent such distributions are required to
            preserve the real estate investment trust status of the General
            Partner.

                  (e) No Further Rights. Holders of Series B Cumulative
            Preferred Units shall not be entitled to any distributions, whether
            payable in cash, other property or otherwise, in excess of the full
            cumulative distributions described herein.

            SECTION 17.4 LIQUIDATION PROCEEDS.

                  (a) Notice. Written notice of any voluntary or involuntary
            liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Partnership, stating
            the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where, the
            amounts distributable in such circumstances shall be payable, shall
            be given by (i) fax and (ii) by first class mail, postage pre-paid,
            not less than thirty (30) and not more than sixty (60) days prior to
            the payment date stated therein, to each record holder of the Series
            B Cumulative Preferred Units at the respective


                                       6
<PAGE>

            addresses of such holders as the same shall appear on the transfer
            records of the Partnership.

                  (b) No Further Rights. After payment of the full amount of the
            liquidating distributions to which they are entitled pursuant to
            Section 8.2 hereof, the holders of Series B Cumulative Preferred
            Units will have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of
            the Partnership.

                  (c) Consolidation, Merger or Certain Other Transactions. The
            voluntary sale, conveyance, lease, exchange or transfer (for cash,
            shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or
            substantially all of the property or assets of the General Partner
            to, or the consolidation or merger or other business combination of
            the Partnership with or into, any corporation, trust, partnership,
            limited liability company or other entity (or of any corporation,
            trust, partnership, limited liability company or other entity with
            or into the Partnership) shall not be deemed to constitute a
            liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Partnership.

            SECTION 17.5 REDEMPTION.

                  (a) Series B Preferred

                        (i) Mandatory Redemption. Subject to the limitations in
                  this Section 17.5, the holders of Series B Preferred Units may
                  request redemption of, and the Partnership shall redeem, for
                  cash, Series B Preferred Units on the following terms and
                  subject to the following conditions:

                              (A) On May 1, 2003 the holders of Series B
                        Preferred Units may require that the Partnership redeem
                        an aggregate of 10,000 Series B Preferred Units upon not
                        less than sixty (60) days prior written notice, at the
                        Series B Redemption Price.

                              (B) On May 1, 2004 and May 1, 2005 the holders of
                        Series B Preferred Units may require that the
                        Partnership redeem all outstanding Series B Preferred
                        Units upon not less than sixty (60) days prior written
                        notice at the Series B Redemption Price.

                              (C) On May 1, 2006, the Partnership shall redeem
                        all outstanding Series B Preferred Units at the Series B
                        Redemption Price.

                        (ii) Redemption in the Event of a Series B Default. The
                  Partnership shall redeem, for cash, all outstanding Series B
                  Preferred Units at the Series B Redemption Price in the event
                  the Partnership fails to declare and pay on any Series B
                  Cumulative Preferred Unit Distribution Payment Date the Series
                  B Priority Return for any reason including the failure to
                  declare a distribution of the Series B Priority Return (a
                  "SERIES B DEFAULT"). Such redemption shall occur fifteen (15)
                  days after written demand of the holders of Series B Preferred
                  Units is received by the Partnership, provided such notice is
                  received by the Partnership no later than thirty (30) days
                  after the Series B Cumulative Preferred Unit Distribution
                  Payment Date that is the subject of the Series B Default.
                  Failure of the holders of Series B Preferred Units to timely
                  give such notice shall terminate the right of the holders of
                  Series B Preferred Units under this Section


                                       7
<PAGE>

                  17.5(a)(ii) to demand redemption with respect to the Series B
                  Default to which such notice relates, but shall not effect the
                  rights of the holders of Series B Preferred Units under this
                  Section 17.5(a)(ii) for any subsequent Series B Default.

                        (iii) Procedures for Redemption.

                              (A) Notice of redemption will be (x) faxed and (y)
                        mailed by the holders of Series B Preferred Units, by
                        certified mail, postage prepaid, to the Partnership so
                        that notice is received by the Partnership within the
                        periods set forth herein and in accordance with the
                        provisions hereof. Each such notice shall: (1) state the
                        aggregate number of Series B Preferred Units to be
                        redeemed and if fewer than all of the outstanding Series
                        B Preferred Units are to be redeemed, the number of
                        Series B Preferred Units to be redeemed held by such
                        holder, which number shall equal such holder's pro rata
                        share (based on the percentage of the aggregate number
                        of outstanding Series B Preferred Units the total number
                        of Series B Preferred Units held by such holder
                        represents) of the aggregate number of Series B
                        Preferred Units to be redeemed and (2) refer to the
                        specific subsection of this Section 17.5 pursuant to
                        which such redemption is being effected. Any such notice
                        shall be irrevocable.

                              (B) By 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the
                        redemption date, the Partnership will deposit
                        irrevocably in trust with Boston Equiserve, its transfer
                        agent (or any successor entity, provided such entity is
                        a third party, unrelated to the Company and the
                        Partnership) for the benefit of the Series B Preferred
                        Units being redeemed funds sufficient to pay the Series
                        B Redemption Price and will give irrevocable
                        instructions to such transfer agent and authority to pay
                        such Series B Redemption Price to the holders of the
                        Series B Preferred Units upon surrender of the Series B
                        Preferred Units by such holders at the place designated
                        by the Partnership. If the Series B Preferred Units are
                        evidenced by a certificate and if fewer than all Series
                        B Preferred Units evidenced by any certificate are being
                        redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued upon
                        surrender of the certificate evidencing all Series B
                        Preferred Units, evidencing the unredeemed Series B
                        Preferred Units without cost to the holder thereof. On
                        and after the date of redemption, distributions will
                        cease to accumulate on the Series B Preferred Units or
                        portions thereof called for redemption, unless the
                        Partnership defaults in the payment of the Series B
                        Redemption Price. If any date fixed for redemption of
                        Series B Preferred Units is not a Business Day, then
                        payment of the Series B Redemption Price payable on such
                        date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a
                        Business Day (and without any interest or other payment
                        in respect of any such delay) except that, if such
                        Business Day falls in the next calendar year, such
                        payment will be made on the immediately preceding
                        Business Day, in each case with the same force and
                        effect as if made on such date fixed for redemption. If
                        payment of the Series B Redemption Price is improperly
                        withheld or refused and not paid by the Partnership,
                        distributions on such Series B Preferred Units will
                        continue to accumulate from the original redemption date
                        to the date of payment, in which case the actual payment
                        date will


                                       8
<PAGE>

                        be considered the date fixed for redemption for purposes
                        of calculating the Series B Redemption Price.

                  (b) Series B-1 Preferred Units

                        (i) Mandatory Redemption. Subject to the limitations in
                  this Section 17.5, during the ninety (90) day period
                  immediately following (x) each anniversary of the Series B-1
                  Issuance Date commencing with the fifth anniversary of the
                  Series B-1 Issuance Date or (y) the Partnership's receipt of
                  notice of Vern Slagh's death, the Series B-1 Preferred Partner
                  may require redemption of, and the Partnership shall redeem,
                  for cash, at the Series B-1 Redemption Price, all, but not
                  less than all, of the Series B-1 Preferred Partner's Series
                  B-1 Preferred Units upon not less than sixty (60) days' prior
                  written notice to the Partnership.

                        (ii) Optional Redemption. At any time after the
                  expiration of the Election Periods, as defined in (b)(i)
                  above, immediately following the eleventh anniversary of the
                  Series B-1 Issuance Date, the Partnership may redeem all
                  outstanding Series B-1 Preferred Units at the Series B-1
                  Redemption Price upon not less than fifteen (15) days' prior
                  written notice to the Series B-1 Preferred Partner.

                        (iii) Procedures for Redemption.

                              (A) Notice of redemption will be (x) faxed and (y)
                        mailed by the Series B-1 Preferred Partner, by certified
                        mail, postage prepaid, to the Partnership so that notice
                        is received by the Partnership within the periods set
                        forth herein and in accordance with the provisions
                        hereof. Any such notice shall be irrevocable.

                              (B) By 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the
                        redemption date, the Partnership will deposit
                        irrevocably in trust with Boston Equiserve, its transfer
                        agent (or any successor entity, provided such entity is
                        a third party, unrelated to the Company and the
                        Partnership) for the benefit of the Series B-1 Preferred
                        Partner funds sufficient to pay the Series B-1
                        Redemption Price and will give irrevocable instructions
                        to such transfer agent and authority to pay such Series
                        B-1 Redemption Price to the Series B-1 Preferred Partner
                        upon surrender of the Series B-1 Preferred Units by the
                        Series B-1 Preferred Partner at the place designated by
                        the Partnership. On and after the date of redemption,
                        distributions will cease to accumulate on the Series B-1
                        Preferred Units, unless the Partnership defaults in the
                        payment of the Series B-1 Redemption Price. If any date
                        fixed for redemption of Series B-1 Preferred Units is
                        not a Business Day, then payment of the Series B-1
                        Redemption Price payable on such date will be made on
                        the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and
                        without any interest or other payment in respect of any
                        such delay) except that, if such Business Day falls in
                        the next calendar year, such payment will be made on the
                        immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with
                        the same force and effect as if made on such date fixed
                        for redemption. If payment of the Series B-1 Redemption
                        Price is improperly withheld or refused and


                                       9
<PAGE>

                        not paid by the Partnership, distributions on such
                        Series B-1 Preferred Units will continue to accumulate
                        from the original redemption date to the date of
                        payment, in which case the actual payment date will be
                        considered the date fixed for redemption for purposes of
                        calculating the Series B-1 Redemption Price.

                  (c) Series B-2 Preferred Units

                        (i) Mandatory Redemption. Subject to the limitations in
                  this Section 17.5, during the ninety (90) day period
                  immediately following (x) the fifth (5th) anniversary of the
                  Series B-2 Issuance Date, or (y) the death of James A. Morse,
                  or (z) the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined
                  below), the Series B-2 Preferred Partner may require
                  redemption of, and the Partnership shall redeem, for cash, at
                  the Series B-2 Redemption Price plus all accrued but unpaid
                  amounts of Series B-2 Priority Return, all, but not less than
                  all, of the Series B-2 Preferred Partner's Series B-2
                  Preferred Units upon not less than thirty (30) days' prior
                  written notice to the Partnership. Notwithstanding the
                  foregoing, however, the Series B-2 Preferred Partner shall
                  have no right to put the Series B-2 Preferred Units to the
                  Partnership under clauses (y) or (z) of this Section 17.5(c)
                  prior to the fifth (5th) anniversary of the Series B-2
                  Issuance Date. For purposes of this Section 17.5, the term
                  "CHANGE OF CONTROL" means a sale of all or substantially all
                  of the Partnership's assets, or any merger or consolidation of
                  the Partnership with or into another entity other than a
                  merger or consolidation in which the holders of more than
                  fifty-percent (50%) of the voting securities of the
                  Partnership outstanding immediately prior to such transaction
                  continue to hold (either by the voting securities remaining
                  outstanding or by their being converted into voting securities
                  of the surviving entity) more than fifty percent (50%) of the
                  total voting power represented by the voting securities of the
                  Partnership, or such surviving entity, outstanding immediately
                  after such transaction.

                        (ii) Procedures for Redemption.

                              (A) Notice of redemption will be (x) faxed and (y)
                        mailed by the Series B-2 Preferred Partner, by certified
                        mail, postage prepaid, to the Partnership so that notice
                        is received by the Partnership within the periods set
                        forth herein and in accordance with the provisions
                        hereof. Any such notice shall be irrevocable.

                              (B) By 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the
                        redemption date, the Partnership will deposit
                        irrevocably in trust with Boston Equiserve, its transfer
                        agent (or any successor entity, provided such entity is
                        a third party, unrelated to the Company and the
                        Partnership) for the benefit of the Series B-2 Preferred
                        Partner funds sufficient to pay the Series B-2
                        Redemption Price and will give irrevocable instructions
                        to such transfer agent and authority to pay such Series
                        B-2 Redemption Price to the Series B-2 Preferred Partner
                        upon surrender of the Series B-2 Preferred Units by the
                        Series B-2 Preferred Partner at the place designated by
                        the Partnership. On and after the date of redemption,
                        distributions will cease to accumulate on the Series B-2
                        Preferred Units, unless the Partnership defaults in the
                        payment of the Series B-2 Redemption Price. If any date
                        fixed for redemption of Series B-2


                                       10
<PAGE>

                        Preferred Units is not a Business Day, then payment of
                        the Series B-2 Redemption Price payable on such date
                        will be made on the next succeeding day that is a
                        Business Day (and without any interest or other payment
                        in respect of any such delay) except that, if such
                        Business Day falls in the next calendar year, such
                        payment will be made on the immediately preceding
                        Business Day, in each case with the same force and
                        effect as if made on such date fixed for redemption. If
                        payment of the Series B-2 Redemption Price is improperly
                        withheld or refused and not paid by the Partnership,
                        distributions on such Series B-2 Preferred Units will
                        continue to accumulate from the original redemption date
                        to the date of payment, in which case the actual payment
                        date will be considered the date fixed for redemption
                        for purposes of calculating the Series B-2 Redemption
                        Price.

                  (d) Limitations on Redemption. Any redemption pursuant to this
            Section 17.5 is subject to and limited by the provisions of Section
            16.3(c)(i) hereof.

            SECTION 17.6 VOTING RIGHTS. Holders of the Series B Cumulative
      Preferred Units will not have any voting rights or right to consent to any
      matter requiring the consent or approval of the Limited Partners.

            SECTION 17.7 TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS. The Series B Cumulative
      Preferred Units shall be subject to the provisions of Section 9 of the
      Agreement.

            SECTION 17.8 CONVERSION AND EXCHANGE RIGHTS.

            (a) Series B Preferred Units. The holders of Series B Preferred
      Units shall be entitled to convert Series B Preferred Units into Common OP
      Units or exchange Series B Preferred Units for shares of the General
      Partner's common stock, at their option, on the following terms and
      subject to the following conditions:

                  (i) On May 1, 2002, the holders of Series B Preferred Units
            may convert an aggregate of 10,000 Series B Preferred Units into
            22,727 Common OP Units or exchange an aggregate of 10,000 Series B
            Preferred Units for 22,727 shares of the General Partner's common
            stock, or any combination thereof at conversion or exchange rate of
            2.272727 Common OP Units or shares of the General Partner's common
            stock, as the case may be, for each Series B Preferred Unit (rounded
            to the lower whole number), at their option, provided the General
            Partner has received at least sixty (60) days prior written notice
            of such conversion or exchange, such notice to specify the number of
            Common OP Units and number of shares of the General Partner's common
            stock to which the Series B Preferred Units are to be converted or
            exchanged.

                  (ii) On each of May 1, 2003, May 1, 2004, May 1, 2005 and May
            1, 2006, the holders of Series B Preferred Units may convert all or
            any portion (but not less than 10,000) Series B Preferred Units to
            Common OP Units or exchange all or any portion (but not less than
            10,000) Series B Preferred Units for shares of the General Partner's
            common stock, at their option, at a conversion and exchange rate of
            2.272727 Common OP Units or shares of the General Partner's common
            stock, as the case may be, for each Series B Preferred Unit (rounded
            to the lower whole number), provided the General Partner has
            received at least sixty (60) days prior written notice of such
            conversion or exchange, such notice to specify the number of Common
            OP Units and number of shares


                                       11
<PAGE>

            of the General Partner's common stock to which the Series B
            Preferred Units are to be converted or exchanged.

                  (iii) The conversion/exchange rate is subject to adjustment
            upon subdivisions, stock splits, stock dividends, combinations and
            reclassification of the common stock of the General Partner.

                  (iv) In case the General Partner shall be a party to any
            transaction (including, without limitation, a merger, consolidation,
            statutory share exchange, tender offer for all or substantially all
            of the General Partner's capital stock or sale of all or
            substantially all of the General Partner's assets), in each case as
            a result of which the General Partner's common stock will be
            converted into the right to receive shares of capital stock, other
            securities or other property (including cash or any combination
            thereof), each Series B Preferred Unit will thereafter be
            convertible or exchangeable into the kind and amount of shares of
            capital stock and other securities and property receivable
            (including cash or any combination thereof) upon the consummation of
            such transaction by a holder of that number of shares of the General
            Partner's common stock or fraction thereof into which one Series B
            Preferred Unit was convertible or exchangeable immediately prior to
            such transaction.

                  (v) Limitations on Conversion and Exchange. Notwithstanding
            anything to the contrary in this Section 17.8(a):

                        (A) Upon tender of any Series B Preferred Units to the
                  General Partner pursuant to that Section, the General Partner
                  may issue cash in lieu of stock to the extent necessary to
                  prevent the recipient from violating the Ownership Limitations
                  of Section 2 of Article VII of the Charter, or corresponding
                  provisions of any amendment or restatement thereof; and

                        (B) A holder of Series B Preferred Units will not have
                  the right to exchange Series B Preferred Units for the General
                  Partner's common stock if (1) in the opinion of counsel for
                  the General Partner, the General Partner would no longer
                  qualify or its status would be seriously compromised as a real
                  estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code as a
                  result of such exchange; or (2) such exchange would, in the
                  opinion of counsel for the General Partner, constitute or be
                  likely to constitute a violation of applicable securities
                  laws. In the event of either such occurrence, the General
                  Partner shall purchase such holder's Series B Preferred Units
                  for cash at a purchase price of $100 per Series B Preferred
                  Unit.

                  (vi) Reservation of Common Stock. The General Partner shall at
            all times reserve and keep available a sufficient number of
            authorized but unissued shares of common stock to permit the
            exchange of all of the outstanding Series B Preferred Units pursuant
            to this Section 17.8.

            (b) Series B-2 Preferred Units. The holders of Series B-2 Preferred
            Units shall be entitled to convert all, or any portion, of the
            Series B-2 Preferred Units into Common OP Units during the ninety
            (90) day period immediately following the third (3rd) anniversary of
            the Series B-2 Issuance Date, at a conversion price of $45.00 for
            each Series B-2 Preferred Unit, provided the General Partner has
            received at least thirty (30) days prior


                                       12
<PAGE>

            written notice of such conversion, such notice to specify the number
            of Common OP Units into which the Series B-2 Preferred Units are to
            be converted.

            (c) Procedure for Conversion or Exchange.

                  (i) Any conversion or exchange described in Section 17.8(a) or
            (b) above, shall be exercised pursuant to a notice of conversion or
            exchange (the "SERIES B AND SERIES B-2 CONVERSION/EXCHANGE NOTICE")
            delivered to the General Partner by the holder who is exercising
            such conversion or exchange right, by (A) fax and (B) by certified
            mail postage prepaid. The Series B and Series B-2
            Conversion/Exchange Notice and certificates, if any, representing
            such Series B Preferred Units or Series B-2 Preferred Units, as
            applicable, to be converted or exchanged shall be delivered to the
            office of the General Partner maintained for such purpose.
            Currently, such office is:

                        Sun Communities, Inc.
                        31700 Middlebelt Road, Suite 145
                        Farmington Hills, Michigan 48334.

            Any conversion or exchange hereunder shall be effective as of the
            close of business on the conversion or exchange date. The holders of
            the converted or exchanged Series B Preferred Units and Series B-2
            Preferred Units shall be deemed to have surrendered the same to the
            Partnership or the General Partner, as the case may be, and the
            Partnership or the General Partner, as the case may be, shall be
            deemed to have issued Common OP Units or shares of common stock of
            the General Partner, as applicable, at the close of business on the
            conversion or exchange date.

            (d) Payment of Series B and the Series B-2 Priority Return. On the
      Series B Cumulative Preferred Unit Distribution Payment Date next
      following a conversion or exchange date, the holders of Series B Preferred
      Units or Series B-2 Preferred Units, as applicable, which converted or
      exchanged on such date shall be entitled to Series B Priority Return or
      Series B-2 Priority Return, respectively, in an amount equal to a prorated
      portion of the Series B Priority Return or the Series B-2 Priority Return,
      as applicable, based on the number of days elapsed from the prior Series B
      Cumulative Preferred Unit Distribution Payment Date through, but not
      including, the conversion or exchange date.

            SECTION 17.9 NO SINKING FUND. No sinking fund shall be established
      for the retirement or redemption of Series B Cumulative Preferred Units.

      7. Governing Law. This Amendment shall be interpreted and enforced
according to the laws of the State of Michigan.

      8. Full Force and Effect. Except as amended by the provisions hereof, the
Agreement, as previously amended, shall remain in full force and effect in
accordance with its terms and is hereby ratified, confirmed and reaffirmed by
the undersigned for all purposes and in all respects.

      9. Successors/Assigns. This Amendment shall be binding upon and shall
inure to the benefit of the parties hereto, their respective legal
representatives, successors and assigns.

      10. Counterparts. This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, all of
which together shall constitute one agreement binding on all the parties hereto,
notwithstanding that all such parties are not signatories to the original or the
same counterpart. Reproductions (photographic, facsimile or


                                       13
<PAGE>

otherwise) of this Amendment may be made and relied upon to the same extent as
though such reproduction was an original.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Amendment as of the
day and year first above written.


                               GENERAL PARTNER:

                               SUN COMMUNITIES, INC., a Maryland corporation

                               By: /s/ Jeffrey P. Jorissen
                                   -----------------------------------------
                                   Jeffrey P. Jorissen, Senior Vice President,
                                   Treasurer, Chief Financial Officer,
                                   and Secretary


                               SERIES B-2 PREFERRED PARTNER:

                               BAY AREA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited
                               partnership

                               By: JAM Management Company, a Michigan
                                   corporation, General Partner

                               By: /s/ James A. Morse
                                   -----------------------------------------
                                   James A. Morse, President


                                       14

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.38
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-38.txt
<DESCRIPTION>RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT-G. A. SHIFFMAN
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.38

                              SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
                   AMENDED AND RESTATED 1993 STOCK OPTION PLAN
                        RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT

      Sun Communities, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), upon the
recommendation of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") and pursuant to
that certain Amended and Restated 1993 Stock Option Plan adopted by the
Company's Board of Directors (the "Plan") and approved by its shareholders, and
in consideration of the services to be rendered to the Company or its
subsidiaries by Gary A. Shiffman ("Employee"), hereby grants, as of March 30,
2001 (the "Date of Grant"), to Employee Twenty-eight Thousand Two Hundred
Ninety-two (28,292) shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value $0.01 per
share (the "Shares"), subject to the terms and conditions contained in this
Restricted Stock Award Agreement (the "Agreement") and subject to all the terms
and conditions of the Plan, which are incorporated by reference herein. All
capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have
the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.

                        I. RECEIPT AND DELIVERY OF SHARES

      Until such time as the Shares vest in accordance with Section II below,
the stock certificate or certificates evidencing the Shares shall be registered
in the name of Employee but held in escrow by the Company. As soon as
practicable after the date upon which any Shares vest, the Company shall deliver
to Employee a certificate or certificates representing such vested Shares,
registered in the name of Employee.

                              II. VESTING SCHEDULE

      (a) Subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth in the Plan, the
Shares shall vest as follows:

            (i)   thirty-five percent (35%) of the Shares vest on March 30,
                  2005;
            (ii)  thirty-five percent (35%) of the Shares vest on March 30,
                  2006;
            (iii) twenty percent (20%) of the Shares vest on March 30, 2007;
            (iv)  five percent (5%) of the Shares vest on March 30, 2008; and
            (v)   five percent (5%) of the Shares vest on March 30, 2011.

      (b) In the event of Employee's Termination of Employment at any time for
any reason other than the death or Disability (as defined below) of Employee,
all unvested Shares shall be automatically forfeited to the Company and,
accordingly, Employee shall forfeit all right, title and interest in and to such
forfeited Shares. For purposes hereof, "Disability" shall mean physical or
mental incapacity for an aggregate period of at least 90 days within any period
of 365 consecutive days.

      (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, upon the death or
Disability of Employee or the occurrence of a Change of Control Event, all
unvested Shares shall immediately become fully vested.
<PAGE>
                           III. RESTRICTIONS ON SHARES

      Until a Share vests pursuant to Section II above, it shall not be liable
for the debts, contracts or obligations of Employee nor be subject to
disposition by assignment, transfer, sale, alienation, pledge, encumbrance or
any other means, whether such disposition is voluntary or involuntary or by
operation of law by judgment, levy, attachment, garnishment or other legal or
equitable proceeding (including bankruptcy), and any attempted disposition
thereof shall be null and void and of no force or effect; provided, however,
that this Section III does not prevent transfers by will or by the applicable
laws of descent and distribution, or pursuant to the terms of a Qualified
Domestic Relations Order.

                           IV. RIGHTS AS A STOCKHOLDER

      Notwithstanding Section 9.06 of the Plan to the contrary, Employee shall
be entitled to all of the rights of a stockholder with respect to the Shares,
including the right to vote such Shares and to receive dividends and other
distributions payable with respect to such Shares from and after the Date of
Grant; provided that any securities or other property (but not cash) received in
any such distribution with respect to any Shares that are still subject to the
restrictions of Section II and III of this Agreement shall be subject to all of
the restrictions in this Agreement with respect to such Shares.

                                 V. REGISTRATION

      Subject to the other terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Shares
may be offered and sold by Employee only if such stock is registered for resale
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or if an
exemption from registration under the Securities Act is available. Employee
acknowledges and agrees: (a) that the Company has no obligation to effect such
registration; (b) not to offer or sell the Shares unless and until such stock is
registered for resale under the Securities Act or an exemption from registration
is available; and (c) that the Shares were acquired for his own account for
investment and not with a view to, or for sale in connection with, the
distribution of any part thereof.

                      VI. NO RIGHT TO EMPLOYMENT CONFERRED

      Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall confer upon Employee any right
to continue in employment with the Company or a subsidiary or interfere in any
way with the right of the Company or any subsidiary to terminate such person's
employment at any time.

                               VII. MISCELLANEOUS

      (a) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, the Company is entitled to
withhold (or secure payment from Employee in lieu of withholding) the amount of
any withholding or other tax required by law to be withheld or paid by the
Company with respect to the award or issuance of the Shares. Employee
understands that the taxable income recognized by Employee as a result of the
award of the Shares would be affected by a decision by Employee to make an
election under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the "83(b) Election"), with respect to the Shares within thirty (30) days after
the Date of Grant. Employee acknowledges and agrees that he will have the sole
responsibility for determining whether to make an 83(b) Election with respect to
the


                                      -2-
<PAGE>
Shares and for properly making such election and filing such election with the
relevant taxing authorities on a timely basis.

      (b) If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable,
the remaining provisions shall continue to be in full force and effect to the
maximum extent permitted by law. If the implementation or presence of any
provision of this Agreement would or will cause the Plan and thereby the Shares
purchased thereunder to not be in compliance with Rule 16b-3 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any other statutory provision,
such Agreement provision shall not be implemented or, at the Company's option
following notice, such provision shall be severed from the Agreement as is
appropriate or necessary to achieve statutory compliance; provided, however,
that the parties hereby agree to negotiate in good faith as may be necessary to
modify this Agreement to achieve statutory compliance or otherwise effectuate
the intent of the parties following a severance permitted by this Section
VII(b).

      (c) Any notice required to be given hereunder to the Company shall be
addressed to the Chief Financial Officer, Sun Communities, Inc., 31700
Middlebelt Road, Suite 145, Farmington Hills, Michigan 48334, and any notice
required to be given to Employee shall be sent to Employee's address as shown on
the records of the Company.

      (d) This instrument contains the entire Agreement of the parties and may
only be amended by written agreement executed by the parties hereto.

      (e) This Agreement is made and entered into in, and shall be construed and
enforced in accordance with the laws of, the State of Michigan.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Restricted Stock Award Agreement is hereby
executed as of March 30, 2001.

                                "COMPANY"

                                SUN COMMUNITIES, INC., a Maryland corporation


                                By: /s/ Jeffrey P. Jorissen
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                    Jeffrey P. Jorissen, Chief Financial Officer

                                "EMPLOYEE"

                                /s/ Gary A. Shiffman
                                ------------------------------------------------
                                         Gary A. Shiffman




                                      -3-

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.39
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-39.txt
<DESCRIPTION>RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT-J. P. JORISSEN
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.39

                              SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
                   AMENDED AND RESTATED 1993 STOCK OPTION PLAN
                        RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT

      Sun Communities, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), upon the
recommendation of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") and pursuant to
that certain Amended and Restated 1993 Stock Option Plan adopted by the
Company's Board of Directors (the "Plan") and approved by its shareholders, and
in consideration of the services to be rendered to the Company or its
subsidiaries by Jeffrey P. Jorissen ("Employee"), hereby grants, as of March 30,
2001 (the "Date of Grant"), to Employee Thirty-eight Thousand Two Hundred Ninety
(38,290) shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the
"Shares"), subject to the terms and conditions contained in this Restricted
Stock Award Agreement (the "Agreement") and subject to all the terms and
conditions of the Plan, which are incorporated by reference herein. All
capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have
the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.

                        I. RECEIPT AND DELIVERY OF SHARES

      Until such time as the Shares vest in accordance with Section II below,
the stock certificate or certificates evidencing the Shares shall be registered
in the name of Employee but held in escrow by the Company. As soon as
practicable after the date upon which any Shares vest, the Company shall deliver
to Employee a certificate or certificates representing such vested Shares,
registered in the name of Employee.

                              II. VESTING SCHEDULE

      (a) Subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth in the Plan, the
Shares shall vest as follows:

            (i)   thirty-five percent (35%) of the Shares vest on March 30,
                  2005;
            (ii)  thirty-five percent (35%) of the Shares vest on March 30,
                  2006;
            (iii) twenty percent (20%) of the Shares vest on March 30, 2007;
            (iv)  five percent (5%) of the Shares vest on March 30, 2008; and
            (v)   five percent (5%) of the Shares vest on March 30, 2011.

      (b) In the event of Employee's Termination of Employment at any time for
any reason other than the death or Disability (as defined below) of Employee,
all unvested Shares shall be automatically forfeited to the Company and,
accordingly, Employee shall forfeit all right, title and interest in and to such
forfeited Shares. For purposes hereof, "Disability" shall mean physical or
mental incapacity for an aggregate period of at least 90 days within any period
of 365 consecutive days.

      (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, upon the death or
Disability of Employee or the occurrence of a Change of Control Event, all
unvested Shares shall immediately become fully vested.
<PAGE>
                           III. RESTRICTIONS ON SHARES

      Until a Share vests pursuant to Section II above, it shall not be liable
for the debts, contracts or obligations of Employee nor be subject to
disposition by assignment, transfer, sale, alienation, pledge, encumbrance or
any other means, whether such disposition is voluntary or involuntary or by
operation of law by judgment, levy, attachment, garnishment or other legal or
equitable proceeding (including bankruptcy), and any attempted disposition
thereof shall be null and void and of no force or effect; provided, however,
that this Section III does not prevent transfers by will or by the applicable
laws of descent and distribution, or pursuant to the terms of a Qualified
Domestic Relations Order.

                           IV. RIGHTS AS A STOCKHOLDER

      Notwithstanding Section 9.06 of the Plan to the contrary, Employee shall
be entitled to all of the rights of a stockholder with respect to the Shares,
including the right to vote such Shares and to receive dividends and other
distributions payable with respect to such Shares from and after the Date of
Grant; provided that any securities or other property (but not cash) received in
any such distribution with respect to any Shares that are still subject to the
restrictions of Section II and III of this Agreement shall be subject to all of
the restrictions in this Agreement with respect to such Shares.

                                 V. REGISTRATION

      Subject to the other terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Shares
may be offered and sold by Employee only if such stock is registered for resale
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or if an
exemption from registration under the Securities Act is available. Employee
acknowledges and agrees: (a) that the Company has no obligation to effect such
registration; (b) not to offer or sell the Shares unless and until such stock is
registered for resale under the Securities Act or an exemption from registration
is available; and (c) that the Shares were acquired for his own account for
investment and not with a view to, or for sale in connection with, the
distribution of any part thereof.

                      VI. NO RIGHT TO EMPLOYMENT CONFERRED

      Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall confer upon Employee any right
to continue in employment with the Company or a subsidiary or interfere in any
way with the right of the Company or any subsidiary to terminate such person's
employment at any time.

                               VII. MISCELLANEOUS

      (a) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, the Company is entitled to
withhold (or secure payment from Employee in lieu of withholding) the amount of
any withholding or other tax required by law to be withheld or paid by the
Company with respect to the award or issuance of the Shares. Employee
understands that the taxable income recognized by Employee as a result of the
award of the Shares would be affected by a decision by Employee to make an
election under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the "83(b) Election"), with respect to the Shares within thirty (30) days after
the Date of Grant. Employee acknowledges and agrees that he will have the sole
responsibility for determining whether to make an 83(b) Election with respect to
the


                                      -2-
<PAGE>
Shares and for properly making such election and filing such election with the
relevant taxing authorities on a timely basis.

      (b) If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable,
the remaining provisions shall continue to be in full force and effect to the
maximum extent permitted by law. If the implementation or presence of any
provision of this Agreement would or will cause the Plan and thereby the Shares
purchased thereunder to not be in compliance with Rule 16b-3 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any other statutory provision,
such Agreement provision shall not be implemented or, at the Company's option
following notice, such provision shall be severed from the Agreement as is
appropriate or necessary to achieve statutory compliance; provided, however,
that the parties hereby agree to negotiate in good faith as may be necessary to
modify this Agreement to achieve statutory compliance or otherwise effectuate
the intent of the parties following a severance permitted by this Section
VII(b).

      (c) Any notice required to be given hereunder to the Company shall be
addressed to the Chief Financial Officer, Sun Communities, Inc., 31700
Middlebelt Road, Suite 145, Farmington Hills, Michigan 48334, and any notice
required to be given to Employee shall be sent to Employee's address as shown on
the records of the Company.

      (d) This instrument contains the entire Agreement of the parties and may
only be amended by written agreement executed by the parties hereto.

      (e) This Agreement is made and entered into in, and shall be construed and
enforced in accordance with the laws of, the State of Michigan.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Restricted Stock Award Agreement is hereby
executed as of March 30, 2001.

                                   "COMPANY"

                                   SUN COMMUNITIES, INC., a Maryland corporation


                                   By: /s/ Gary A. Shiffman
                                       --------------------------------------
                                        Gary A. Shiffman, President and
                                        Chief Executive Officer

                                   "EMPLOYEE"

                                   /s/ Jeffrey P. Jorissen
                                   ------------------------------------------
                                            Jeffrey P. Jorissen




                                      -3-

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.40
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-40.txt
<DESCRIPTION>RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT-J. M. COLMAN
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.40

                              SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
                   AMENDED AND RESTATED 1993 STOCK OPTION PLAN
                        RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT

      Sun Communities, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), upon the
recommendation of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") and pursuant to
that certain Amended and Restated 1993 Stock Option Plan adopted by the
Company's Board of Directors (the "Plan") and approved by its shareholders, and
in consideration of the services to be rendered to the Company or its
subsidiaries by Jonathan M. Colman ("Employee"), hereby grants, as of March 30,
2001 (the "Date of Grant"), to Employee Ten Thousand Three Hundred Forty
(10,340) shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the
"Shares"), subject to the terms and conditions contained in this Restricted
Stock Award Agreement (the "Agreement") and subject to all the terms and
conditions of the Plan, which are incorporated by reference herein. All
capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have
the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.

                        I. RECEIPT AND DELIVERY OF SHARES

      Until such time as the Shares vest in accordance with Section II below,
the stock certificate or certificates evidencing the Shares shall be registered
in the name of Employee but held in escrow by the Company. As soon as
practicable after the date upon which any Shares vest, the Company shall deliver
to Employee a certificate or certificates representing such vested Shares,
registered in the name of Employee.

                              II. VESTING SCHEDULE

      (a) Subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth in the Plan, the
Shares shall vest as follows:

            (i)   thirty-five percent (35%) of the Shares vest on March 30,
                  2005;
            (ii)  thirty-five percent (35%) of the Shares vest on March 30,
                  2006;
            (iii) twenty percent (20%) of the Shares vest on March 30, 2007;
            (iv)  five percent (5%) of the Shares vest on March 30, 2008; and
            (v)   five percent (5%) of the Shares vest on March 30, 2011.

      (b) In the event of Employee's Termination of Employment at any time for
any reason other than the death or Disability (as defined below) of Employee,
all unvested Shares shall be automatically forfeited to the Company and,
accordingly, Employee shall forfeit all right, title and interest in and to such
forfeited Shares. For purposes hereof, "Disability" shall mean physical or
mental incapacity for an aggregate period of at least 90 days within any period
of 365 consecutive days.

      (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, upon the death or
Disability of Employee or the occurrence of a Change of Control Event, all
unvested Shares shall immediately become fully vested.
<PAGE>
                           III. RESTRICTIONS ON SHARES

      Until a Share vests pursuant to Section II above, it shall not be liable
for the debts, contracts or obligations of Employee nor be subject to
disposition by assignment, transfer, sale, alienation, pledge, encumbrance or
any other means, whether such disposition is voluntary or involuntary or by
operation of law by judgment, levy, attachment, garnishment or other legal or
equitable proceeding (including bankruptcy), and any attempted disposition
thereof shall be null and void and of no force or effect; provided, however,
that this Section III does not prevent transfers by will or by the applicable
laws of descent and distribution, or pursuant to the terms of a Qualified
Domestic Relations Order.

                           IV. RIGHTS AS A STOCKHOLDER

      Notwithstanding Section 9.06 of the Plan to the contrary, Employee shall
be entitled to all of the rights of a stockholder with respect to the Shares,
including the right to vote such Shares and to receive dividends and other
distributions payable with respect to such Shares from and after the Date of
Grant; provided that any securities or other property (but not cash) received in
any such distribution with respect to any Shares that are still subject to the
restrictions of Section II and III of this Agreement shall be subject to all of
the restrictions in this Agreement with respect to such Shares.

                                 V. REGISTRATION

      Subject to the other terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Shares
may be offered and sold by Employee only if such stock is registered for resale
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or if an
exemption from registration under the Securities Act is available. Employee
acknowledges and agrees: (a) that the Company has no obligation to effect such
registration; (b) not to offer or sell the Shares unless and until such stock is
registered for resale under the Securities Act or an exemption from registration
is available; and (c) that the Shares were acquired for his own account for
investment and not with a view to, or for sale in connection with, the
distribution of any part thereof.

                      VI. NO RIGHT TO EMPLOYMENT CONFERRED

      Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall confer upon Employee any right
to continue in employment with the Company or a subsidiary or interfere in any
way with the right of the Company or any subsidiary to terminate such person's
employment at any time.

                               VII. MISCELLANEOUS

      (a) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, the Company is entitled to
withhold (or secure payment from Employee in lieu of withholding) the amount of
any withholding or other tax required by law to be withheld or paid by the
Company with respect to the award or issuance of the Shares. Employee
understands that the taxable income recognized by Employee as a result of the
award of the Shares would be affected by a decision by Employee to make an
election under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the "83(b) Election"), with respect to the Shares within thirty (30) days after
the Date of Grant. Employee acknowledges and agrees that he will have the sole
responsibility for determining whether to make an 83(b) Election with respect to
the


                                      -2-
<PAGE>
Shares and for properly making such election and filing such election with the
relevant taxing authorities on a timely basis.

      (b) If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable,
the remaining provisions shall continue to be in full force and effect to the
maximum extent permitted by law. If the implementation or presence of any
provision of this Agreement would or will cause the Plan and thereby the Shares
purchased thereunder to not be in compliance with Rule 16b-3 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any other statutory provision,
such Agreement provision shall not be implemented or, at the Company's option
following notice, such provision shall be severed from the Agreement as is
appropriate or necessary to achieve statutory compliance; provided, however,
that the parties hereby agree to negotiate in good faith as may be necessary to
modify this Agreement to achieve statutory compliance or otherwise effectuate
the intent of the parties following a severance permitted by this Section
VII(b).

      (c) Any notice required to be given hereunder to the Company shall be
addressed to the Chief Financial Officer, Sun Communities, Inc., 31700
Middlebelt Road, Suite 145, Farmington Hills, Michigan 48334, and any notice
required to be given to Employee shall be sent to Employee's address as shown on
the records of the Company.

      (d) This instrument contains the entire Agreement of the parties and may
only be amended by written agreement executed by the parties hereto.

      (e) This Agreement is made and entered into in, and shall be construed and
enforced in accordance with the laws of, the State of Michigan.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Restricted Stock Award Agreement is hereby
executed as of March 30, 2001.

                             "COMPANY"

                             SUN COMMUNITIES, INC., a Maryland corporation


                             By:  /s/ Jeffrey P. Jorissen
                                  ----------------------------------------------
                                    Jeffrey P. Jorissen, Chief Financial Officer

                             "EMPLOYEE"

                             /s/ Jonathan M. Colman
                             ---------------------------------------------------
                                      Jonathan M. Colman




                                      -3-

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.41
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-41.txt
<DESCRIPTION>RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT-B. W. FANNON
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.41

                              SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.
                   AMENDED AND RESTATED 1993 STOCK OPTION PLAN
                        RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT

      Sun Communities, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), upon the
recommendation of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") and pursuant to
that certain Amended and Restated 1993 Stock Option Plan adopted by the
Company's Board of Directors (the "Plan") and approved by its shareholders, and
in consideration of the services to be rendered to the Company or its
subsidiaries by Brian W. Fannon ("Employee"), hereby grants, as of March 30,
2001 (the "Date of Grant"), to Employee Twenty Thousand (20,000) shares of the
Company's Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Shares"), subject to the
terms and conditions contained in this Restricted Stock Award Agreement (the
"Agreement") and subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan, which are
incorporated by reference herein. All capitalized terms used but not otherwise
defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the
Plan.

                        I. RECEIPT AND DELIVERY OF SHARES

      Until such time as the Shares vest in accordance with Section II below,
the stock certificate or certificates evidencing the Shares shall be registered
in the name of Employee but held in escrow by the Company. As soon as
practicable after the date upon which any Shares vest, the Company shall deliver
to Employee a certificate or certificates representing such vested Shares,
registered in the name of Employee.

                              II. VESTING SCHEDULE

      (a) Subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth in the Plan, the
Shares shall vest as follows:

            (i)   thirty-five percent (35%) of the Shares vest on March 30,
                  2005;
            (ii)  thirty-five percent (35%) of the Shares vest on March 30,
                  2006;
            (iii) twenty percent (20%) of the Shares vest on March 30, 2007;
            (iv)  five percent (5%) of the Shares vest on March 30, 2008; and
            (v)   five percent (5%) of the Shares vest on March 30, 2011.

      (b) In the event of Employee's Termination of Employment at any time for
any reason other than the death or Disability (as defined below) of Employee,
all unvested Shares shall be automatically forfeited to the Company and,
accordingly, Employee shall forfeit all right, title and interest in and to such
forfeited Shares. For purposes hereof, "Disability" shall mean physical or
mental incapacity for an aggregate period of at least 90 days within any period
of 365 consecutive days.

      (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, upon the death or
Disability of Employee or the occurrence of a Change of Control Event, all
unvested Shares shall immediately become fully vested.
<PAGE>
                           III. RESTRICTIONS ON SHARES

      Until a Share vests pursuant to Section II above, it shall not be liable
for the debts, contracts or obligations of Employee nor be subject to
disposition by assignment, transfer, sale, alienation, pledge, encumbrance or
any other means, whether such disposition is voluntary or involuntary or by
operation of law by judgment, levy, attachment, garnishment or other legal or
equitable proceeding (including bankruptcy), and any attempted disposition
thereof shall be null and void and of no force or effect; provided, however,
that this Section III does not prevent transfers by will or by the applicable
laws of descent and distribution, or pursuant to the terms of a Qualified
Domestic Relations Order.

                           IV. RIGHTS AS A STOCKHOLDER

      Notwithstanding Section 9.06 of the Plan to the contrary, Employee shall
be entitled to all of the rights of a stockholder with respect to the Shares,
including the right to vote such Shares and to receive dividends and other
distributions payable with respect to such Shares from and after the Date of
Grant; provided that any securities or other property (but not cash) received in
any such distribution with respect to any Shares that are still subject to the
restrictions of Section II and III of this Agreement shall be subject to all of
the restrictions in this Agreement with respect to such Shares.

                                 V. REGISTRATION

      Subject to the other terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Shares
may be offered and sold by Employee only if such stock is registered for resale
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or if an
exemption from registration under the Securities Act is available. Employee
acknowledges and agrees: (a) that the Company has no obligation to effect such
registration; (b) not to offer or sell the Shares unless and until such stock is
registered for resale under the Securities Act or an exemption from registration
is available; and (c) that the Shares were acquired for his own account for
investment and not with a view to, or for sale in connection with, the
distribution of any part thereof.

                      VI. NO RIGHT TO EMPLOYMENT CONFERRED

      Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall confer upon Employee any right
to continue in employment with the Company or a subsidiary or interfere in any
way with the right of the Company or any subsidiary to terminate such person's
employment at any time.

                               VII. MISCELLANEOUS

      (a) In accordance with the terms of the Plan, the Company is entitled to
withhold (or secure payment from Employee in lieu of withholding) the amount of
any withholding or other tax required by law to be withheld or paid by the
Company with respect to the award or issuance of the Shares. Employee
understands that the taxable income recognized by Employee as a result of the
award of the Shares would be affected by a decision by Employee to make an
election under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the "83(b) Election"), with respect to the Shares within thirty (30) days after
the Date of Grant. Employee acknowledges and agrees that he will have the sole
responsibility for determining whether to make an 83(b) Election with respect to
the


                                      -2-
<PAGE>
Shares and for properly making such election and filing such election with the
relevant taxing authorities on a timely basis.

      (b) If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable,
the remaining provisions shall continue to be in full force and effect to the
maximum extent permitted by law. If the implementation or presence of any
provision of this Agreement would or will cause the Plan and thereby the Shares
purchased thereunder to not be in compliance with Rule 16b-3 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any other statutory provision,
such Agreement provision shall not be implemented or, at the Company's option
following notice, such provision shall be severed from the Agreement as is
appropriate or necessary to achieve statutory compliance; provided, however,
that the parties hereby agree to negotiate in good faith as may be necessary to
modify this Agreement to achieve statutory compliance or otherwise effectuate
the intent of the parties following a severance permitted by this Section
VII(b).

      (c) Any notice required to be given hereunder to the Company shall be
addressed to the Chief Financial Officer, Sun Communities, Inc., 31700
Middlebelt Road, Suite 145, Farmington Hills, Michigan 48334, and any notice
required to be given to Employee shall be sent to Employee's address as shown on
the records of the Company.

      (d) This instrument contains the entire Agreement of the parties and may
only be amended by written agreement executed by the parties hereto.

      (e) This Agreement is made and entered into in, and shall be construed and
enforced in accordance with the laws of, the State of Michigan.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Restricted Stock Award Agreement is hereby
executed as of March 30, 2001.

                              "COMPANY"

                              SUN COMMUNITIES, INC., a Maryland corporation


                              By: /s/ Jeffrey P. Jorissen
                                  ----------------------------------------------
                                    Jeffrey P. Jorissen, Chief Financial Officer

                              "EMPLOYEE"

                              /s/ Brian W. Fannon
                              --------------------------------------------------
                                             Brian W. Fannon




                                      -3-

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.51
<SEQUENCE>10
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-51.txt
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED AND RESTATED SUBORDINATED LOAN AGREEMENT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                   Exhibit 10.51


                AMENDED AND RESTATED SUBORDINATED LOAN AGREEMENT

      THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED SUBORDINATED LOAN AGREEMENT (as amended from
time to time, the "Agreement") is made and entered into as of this 1st day of
February, 2002 by and among ORIGEN FINANCIAL, INC., a Virginia corporation
("Origen Inc."), whose address is 260 East Brown Street, Suite 200, Birmingham,
Michigan 48009, ORIGEN FINANCIAL, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company
("Origen LLC" and together with Origen Inc., the "Borrowers"), whose address is
260 East Brown Street, Suite 200, Birmingham, Michigan 48009, and SUN
COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited partnership
("Lender"), whose address is 31700 Middlebelt Road, Suite 145, Farmington Hills,
Michigan 48334.

                                   RECITAL:

      A. Lender previously extended a $4,000,000 term loan (the "$4 Million
Loan"), a $50,000,000 subordinated demand line of credit (the "$50 Million Line
of Credit"), and a $10,000,000 subordinated demand line of credit (the "$10
Million Line of Credit," and together with the $4 Million Loan and the $50
Million Line of Credit, the "Existing Sun Loans") to Bingham Financial Services
Corporation ("Bingham").

      B. Under an Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated December 18, 2001,
Origen Inc. assumed Bingham's debts to Lender under the Existing Sun Loans.

      C. Effective December 18, 2001, Origen Inc. fully repaid the $4 Million
Loan and the note evidencing such loan was cancelled, the note evidencing the
$10 Million Line of Credit was cancelled, and Origen Inc. partially repaid the
$50 Million Line of Credit.

      D. Pursuant to a Subordinated Loan Agreement dated December 18, 2001, as
amended by the First Amendment to Subordinated Loan Agreement dated January 1,
2002 (collectively, the "Original Loan Agreement"), Origen Inc. and Lender
amended and restated the $50 Million Line of Credit (as amended and restated,
the "Loan") to reflect the substitution of Origen Inc. as borrower, to reflect
the partial payment of the Loan and to amend the terms of the Loan, in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Original Loan
Agreement.

      E. Lender and Borrowers desire to amend and restate the Original Loan
Agreement in its entirety in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement.

      NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:

      1. LOAN. The $50 Million Line of Credit is hereby amended and restated to
provide the following terms:

<TABLE>
<S>                     <C>
     Type of Loan:      Line of Credit

     Interest Rate:     700 basis points over LIBOR, but not less than eleven
                        percent (11%) per annum, or in excess of fifteen percent
                        (15%) per annum

     Note Amount:       $17,500,000

     Maturity:          December 18, 2002

     Fees:              $150,000
</TABLE>

The Loan and any amendments, extensions, renewals, or refinancing thereof are
subject to this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Note Amount of the
Loan as set forth above shall
<PAGE>
be reduced to $12,500,000 upon the earlier of (i) June 30, 2002, and (ii) the
closing date of Borrowers' next securitization of manufactured home loans.

      2. LINE OF CREDIT LOAN. Provided the Existing Sun Loans are paid in full
prior to or contemporaneous with the execution of this Agreement, and that no
Event of Default exists and no Event of Default will be caused by any draw under
the Loan, Lender agrees to loan to Borrowers, from time to time up to the Note
Amount (as described above), in increments determined at Lender's discretion and
in accordance with the terms of the Second Amended and Restated Promissory Note
dated February 1, 2002 made by Borrowers in connection with the Loan and
attached to this Agreement as EXHIBIT A. The Second Amended Note shall replace
the First Amended Promissory Note dated January 1, 2002 executed by Origen Inc.
in connection with the Original Loan Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary herein, Lender's obligation to make any advance to Borrower under the
Loan shall automatically: (a) cease and terminate upon the maturity date stated
in the Second Amended Note; and (b) suspend upon any earlier occurrence of an
Event of Default unless and until waived by Lender in writing.

      3. BORROWER'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. Each Borrower, jointly and
severally, represents and warrants to Lender, all of which representations and
warranties shall be continuing until the Loan is fully paid and Borrowers'
obligations under this Agreement and the Related Documents are fully performed,
as follows:

            A. Borrowers' Existence and Authority. Origen Inc. is a Virginia
      corporation, Origen LLC is a Delaware limited liability company, and the
      person executing this Agreement on behalf of each Borrower has full power
      and complete authority to execute this Agreement and all Related Documents
      on behalf of such Borrower, and this Agreement and the Related Documents
      are valid, binding and enforceable against each Borrower.

            B. Financial Information. All financial information provided to
      Lender has been prepared and will continue to be prepared in accordance
      with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), consistently
      applied, and fully and fairly presents the financial condition of
      Borrowers as of the date or for the operating period thereof. There has
      been no material adverse change in either Borrower's business, property,
      or financial condition since the date of Borrowers' latest Financial
      Statements provided to Lender.

            C. No Litigation/No Misrepresentations. There are no civil or
      criminal proceedings pending before any court, government agency,
      arbitration panel, or administrative tribunal or, to Borrowers' knowledge,
      threatened against Borrowers, which may result in any material adverse
      change in the business, property, or financial condition of either
      Borrower. All representations and warranties in this Agreement and the
      Related Documents are true and correct and no material fact has been
      omitted.

      4. AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS. As of the date of this Agreement and continuing
until all of Borrowers' obligations under this Agreement and the Related
Documents are fully performed and the Loan is fully repaid to Lender, Borrowers
shall at all times comply with the following covenants:

            A. Notice of Adverse Events. Borrowers shall promptly notify Lender
      in writing of any litigation, indictment, governmental proceeding,
      default, or any other occurrence which may have a material adverse effect
      on either Borrower's business, property or financial condition.

            B. Maintain Business Existence and Operations. Each Borrower shall
      do all things necessary to keep in full force and effect its corporate
      existence and continue its business as presently conducted.


                                      -2-
<PAGE>
            C. General Compliance with Law. Each Borrower shall at all times
      operate its business in strict compliance with all applicable Federal,
      State, and local laws, ordinances and regulations, and refrain from
      engaging in any civil or criminal activity proscribed by Federal, State or
      local law.

            D. Delivery of Financial Statements. Within forty-five (45) days
      after the end of each fiscal quarter, each Borrower shall deliver to
      Lender copies of its unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance
      with GAAP, consistently applied. Within ninety (90) days after the end of
      each fiscal year, each Borrower shall deliver to Lender copies of its
      audited financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP,
      consistently applied.

      5.    EVENTS OF DEFAULT.  The occurrence of any of the following  events
shall constitute an Event of Default under this Agreement:

            A. Failure to Pay Amounts Due. Any amount of principal or interest
      under the Second Amended Note is not paid when due.

            B. Misrepresentations; False Financial Information. Any statement,
      warranty or representation of Borrowers in connection with or contained in
      this Agreement, the Related Documents, or any Financial Statements now or
      hereafter furnished to Lender by or on behalf of Borrowers, is false or
      misleading.

            C. Noncompliance with Loan Agreements. Either Borrower breaches any
      covenant, term, condition or agreement stated in this Agreement, the
      Related Documents or any agreement relating to Senior Debt (as defined
      below).

            D. Cessation/Termination of Existence. Either Borrower shall cease
      doing business or Borrower's existence is terminated by sale, dissolution,
      merger or otherwise.

            E. Bankruptcy or Receivership. Any conveyance is made of
      substantially all of either Borrower's assets, any assignment is made for
      the benefit of creditors, any receiver is appointed, or any insolvency,
      liquidation or reorganization proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code or
      otherwise shall be filed by or against either Borrower.

            F. Attachments; Tax Liens. Any attachment, execution, levy,
      forfeiture, tax lien or similar writ or process is issued against any
      property of either Borrower.

            G. Material Adverse Change. Any material adverse change occurs or is
      imminent the effect of which would be to substantially diminish either
      Borrower's financial condition, business, or the ability to perform its
      agreements with Lender.

            H. Other Lender Default. Any other indebtedness to Lender or any
      other creditor (including, without limitation, Financial Institutions (as
      defined below)) becomes due and remains unpaid after acceleration of the
      maturity or after the stated maturity.

            I. Other Indebtedness. Either Borrower incurs any indebtedness
      (other than Senior Debt) after the date of this Agreement.

            J. Change of Control Event. Absent Lender's prior written consent,
      any Change of Control Event with respect to either Borrower occurring
      after the Borrowers first draws on the Loan.


                                      -3-
<PAGE>
      6.    REMEDIES ON DEFAULT.

            A. Acceleration Set-Off. Upon the occurrence of any Event of
      Default, Lender may, at Lender's option, declare the Loan to be
      immediately due and payable. The foregoing shall not in any way impair
      Lender's right to demand repayment under the terms of the Second Amended
      Note.

            B. Remedies; No Waiver. The remedies provided in this Agreement are
      cumulative and not exclusive, and Lender may exercise any remedies
      available to it at law, in equity, and as are provided in this Agreement,
      the Related Documents and any other written agreement between Borrower and
      Lender. No delay or failure of Lender in exercising any right, remedy,
      power, or privilege under this Agreement or the Related Documents shall
      affect that right, remedy, power or privilege, nor shall any single or
      partial exercise preclude the exercise of any other right, remedy, power
      or privilege. No delay or failure of Lender to demand strict adherence to
      the terms of this Agreement or the Related Documents shall be deemed to
      constitute a course of conduct inconsistent with Lender's right at any
      time, before or after any Event of Default, to prospectively demand strict
      adherence to the terms of this Agreement and the Related Documents.

      7.    SUBORDINATION.

            A. The indebtedness evidenced by the Second Amended Note and any
      renewals or extensions thereof (such indebtedness being herein called the
      "Subordinated Indebtedness") shall at all times be wholly subordinate and
      junior in right to payment in full of all Senior Debt (as defined below).
      The provisions of this section on subordination shall constitute a
      continuing offer to all persons who, in reliance upon such provisions,
      become holders of, or continue to hold, Senior Debt, and such provisions
      are made for the benefit of the holders of Senior Debt, and such holders
      are hereby made obligees hereunder the same as if their names were written
      herein as such, and they and/or each of them may proceed to enforce such
      provisions. Unless and until an event of default under any of the Senior
      Debt (other than an event of default which exists solely by reason of a
      default under this Agreement) shall have occurred and be continuing
      ("Superior Default"), Borrowers shall pay the principal and interest on
      all Subordinated Indebtedness according to the terms hereof.

            For purposes of this Agreement, "Senior Debt" means the principal
      of, and interest on and other amounts due on or in connection with any
      Indebtedness of Borrowers (other than the Second Amended Note) to any
      Financial Institution (as defined below), whether outstanding on the date
      of this Agreement, or thereafter created, incurred or assumed by Borrowers
      (including all deferrals, renewals, extensions or refundings of, or
      amendments, modifications or supplements to, Indebtedness of the kind
      described in this clause). Notwithstanding anything herein to the
      contrary, Senior Debt shall not include: (a) Indebtedness of or amounts
      owed by Borrowers for compensation to employees, or for goods or materials
      purchased in the ordinary course of business or for services, or (b)
      Indebtedness either Borrower to its subsidiary or affiliate. In no event
      shall any Financial Institution be deemed to be an affiliate of Borrowers.
      Indebtedness of either Borrower to its subsidiary or affiliate shall be
      pari passu in all respects with the Subordinated Indebtedness.

            For purposes of this Agreement, "Financial Institution" means any
      bank as defined in section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as
      amended (the "Securities Act"), savings and loan association or other
      institution as defined in section 3(a)(5)(A) of the Securities Act,
      insurance company as defined in section 2(13) of the Securities Act, or
      investment banking firm.


                                      -4-
<PAGE>
            For purposes of this Agreement, "Indebtedness" means, with respect
      to any person, (a) any liability, contingent or otherwise, of such person
      (i) for borrowed money (whether or not the recourse of the lender is to
      the whole of the assets of such person or only to a portion thereof), (ii)
      evidenced by a note, debenture or similar instrument or representing the
      balance deferred and unpaid of the purchase price of any property
      purchased, or (iii) for the payment of money relating to a lease that is
      required to be capitalized under generally accepted accounting principles;
      (b) any obligation secured by a lien to which the property or assets of
      such person are subject, whether or not the obligations secured thereby
      shall have been assumed by or shall otherwise be such person's legal
      liability; and (c) any and all deferrals, renewals, extensions and
      refundings of, or amendments, modifications or supplements to, any
      liability of the kind described in any of the preceding clauses (a) or
      (b).

            B. The terms hereof, the subordination effected hereby and the
      rights of the holders of the Senior Debt shall not be affected by (a) any
      amendment of or addition or supplement to any Senior Debt or any
      instrument or agreement relating thereto, (b) any exercise or non-exercise
      of any right, power or remedy under or in respect of any Senior Debt or
      any instrument or agreement relating thereto, or (c) any waiver, consent,
      release, indulgence, extension, renewal, modification, delay or other
      action, inaction or omission, in respect of any Senior Debt or any
      instrument or agreement relating thereto or any security therefor or
      guaranty thereof, whether or not any holder of any Subordinated
      Indebtedness shall have had notice or knowledge of any of the foregoing.

            C. Upon the happening of (a) a Superior Default which is a default
      in respect of payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on Senior
      Debt or (b) a Superior Default (other than a Superior Default in respect
      of payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on Senior Debt) and
      receipt by Lender of written notice thereof from any holder of Senior
      Debt, then until all Senior Debt shall have been paid in full, Borrowers
      shall not, directly or indirectly, make or agree to make, and neither
      Lender nor any assignee or successor holder of any Subordinated
      Indebtedness shall demand, accept or receive (a) any payment (in cash,
      property or securities, by set-off or otherwise), direct or indirect, of
      or on account of any principal or interest in respect of any Subordinated
      Indebtedness, and no such payment shall be accepted by any holder of any
      Subordinated Indebtedness, or (b) any payment for the purpose of any
      redemption, purchase or other acquisition, direct or indirect, of any
      Subordinated Indebtedness, and no such payment shall be due.

            In the case of any Superior Default (other than a Superior Default
      with respect to payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on
      Senior Debt), the foregoing restrictions shall cease to apply to any
      payment received with respect to the Subordinated Indebtedness after the
      expiration of 180 days after the holder of the Second Amended Note shall
      have received notice of the Superior Default, unless prior to the
      expiration of such 180-day period one or more holders of the Senior Debt
      shall have commenced and be diligently prosecuting an action, suit or
      other legal or equitable proceeding against Borrower or its property based
      upon the Superior Default or unless a Superior Default which is a payment
      default shall have occurred and be continuing; provided, further, that
      during such 180-day period following the Superior Default (other than a
      Superior Default with respect to payment of principal, premium, if any, or
      interest on Senior Debt) the holders of the Subordinated Indebtedness
      shall refrain from prosecuting any such action, suit or other legal or
      equitable proceeding against either Borrower or its property based upon an
      Event of Default hereunder.

            In the event that a Superior Default (other than a Superior Default
      with respect to payment of principal, premium or interest on Senior Debt)
      is cured or is waived by the appropriate holders of the Senior Debt
      (whether by amendment to the applicable loan


                                      -5-
<PAGE>
      agreement, forbearance agreement or otherwise) prior to the expiration of
      the aforesaid 180-day period applicable to such Superior Default, then any
      Event of Default occurring under this Agreement solely by reason of the
      occurrence of such Superior Default shall be deemed not to have occurred.
      Any judicial proceedings initiated by a holder of Subordinated
      Indebtedness at a time when such holder has no knowledge that such
      proceedings are prohibited by this paragraph shall not be deemed a
      violation of any provisions of this Agreement and, upon receipt of notice
      from the holder of the Senior Debt that such proceedings are so
      prohibited, such holder of the Subordinated Indebtedness shall terminate
      such proceedings, without prejudice.

            D. Upon any distribution (whether of cash, securities or other
      property) to creditors of either Borrower in a liquidation or dissolution
      of such Borrower, or in a bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency,
      receivership, assignment for the benefit of creditors, marshalling of
      assets or similar proceeding relating to such Borrower or its property:

                  (1) holders of Senior Debt shall be entitled to receive
      payment in full in cash of such Senior Debt (including interest accruing
      after the commencement of any such proceeding or interest that would have
      accrued but for the commencement of such proceeding to the date of payment
      on, and other amounts included in, Senior Debt) before the holder of the
      Second Amended Note shall be entitled to receive any payment of principal
      of, premium (if any) or interest on the Second Amended Note or any other
      distributions with respect to the Second Amended Note;

                  (2) until the Senior Debt is paid in full in cash as provided
      in clause (1) of this paragraph, any distribution to which the holder of
      the Second Amended Note would be entitled but for this section on
      subordination shall be made to the holders of Senior Debt as their
      interests may appear.

            In the event that any payment or distribution of assets of either
      Borrower prohibited by the provisions of this section on subordination of
      any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, shall be
      received by the holder of the Second Amended Note before all Senior Debt
      is paid in full, or provision made for such payment in accordance with the
      terms of the Senior Debt, such payment or distribution shall be held in
      trust for the benefit of, and shall be paid over or delivered to, the
      holders of such Senior Debt or their representative or representatives, or
      to the trustee or trustees under any indenture pursuant to which any
      instruments evidencing any of such Senior Debt may have been issued, as
      their respective interests may appear, for application to the payment of
      all Senior Debt remaining unpaid to the extent necessary to pay such
      Senior Debt in full in accordance with its terms, after giving effect to
      any concurrent payment or distribution to the holders of such Senior Debt.

            E. In the event that the Second Amended Note is declared due and
      payable before its stated maturity because of the occurrence of an Event
      of Default hereunder, the holders of the Senior Debt shall be entitled to
      receive payment in full of all amounts due with respect to all Senior Debt
      before the holder of the Second Amended Note is entitled to receive any
      payment on account of the principal of, premium (if any) or interest on,
      or any repurchase, redemption or other retirement (including, without
      limitation, any defeasance) of, the Second Amended Note.

            F. Subject to the payment in full of all Senior Debt, the holders of
      Subordinated Indebtedness shall be subrogated to the rights of the holders
      of Senior Debt to receive payments or distributions of assets of Borrowers
      applicable to the Senior Debt until all amounts owing on the Subordinated
      Indebtedness shall be paid in full, and for the purpose of such
      subrogation no such payments or distributions to the holders of


                                      -6-
<PAGE>
      Senior Debt by or on behalf of Borrowers by virtue of this Agreement which
      otherwise would have been made to the holder of the Second Amended Note,
      shall, as between Borrowers and the holder of the Second Amended Note, be
      deemed to be payment by Borrowers to or on account of the Senior Debt, it
      being understood that the provisions of this paragraph are intended solely
      for the purpose of defining the relative rights of the holders of
      Subordinated Indebtedness on the one hand and the holders of Senior Debt,
      on the other hand.

            Nothing contained herein is intended to or shall impair, as between
      Borrowers and Lender, the obligation of Borrowers, which is absolute and
      unconditional, to pay to Lender, the principal of and interest on the
      Subordinated Indebtedness as and when the same shall become due and
      payable in accordance with its terms, or is intended to or shall affect
      (except to the extent specifically provided in the above paragraph) the
      relative rights of the holders hereof and creditors of Borrowers other
      than the holders of the Senior Debt, nor shall anything herein or therein
      prevent any holder of the Second Amended Note from exercising all remedies
      otherwise permitted by applicable law upon default hereunder subject to
      the rights, if any, hereunder of the holders of Senior Debt in respect of
      cash, property or securities of Borrower received upon the exercise of any
      such remedy.

      8.    COLLATERAL SECURITY.

      To secure the payment of all amounts due to Lender by Borrowers in
connection with the Loan and pursuant to terms of this Agreement and the Second
Amended Note, Borrowers have granted Lender a security interest in those assets
described under the following documents: (i) the Security Agreement dated
February 1, 2002 between Origen LLC and Lender, as amended from time to time,
(ii) Amended and Restated Security Agreement dated February 1, 2002 between
Origen Inc. and Lender, as amended from time to time, (iii) the Amended and
Restated Stock Pledge Agreement dated February 1, 2002 between Origen Inc. and
Lender, as amended from time to time, (iv) the Limited Liability Company
Interest Security and Pledge Agreement dated February 1, 2002 between Origen LLC
and Lender, as amended from time to time, and (v) the Amended and Restated
Limited Liability Company Interest Security and Pledge Agreement dated February
1, 2002 between Origen Inc. and Lender, as amended from time to time.

      9.    MISCELLANEOUS.

            A. Compliance with Lender Agreements. Each Borrower acknowledges
      that it has read and understands this Agreement, the Related Documents,
      and all other written agreements between Borrowers and Lender, and each
      Borrower agrees to fully comply with all of the agreements.

            B. Further Action. Each Borrower agrees, from time to time, upon
      Lender's request to make, execute, acknowledge, and deliver to Lender,
      such further and additional instruments, documents, and agreements, and to
      take such further action as may be required to carry out the intent and
      purpose of this Agreement and prompt repayment of the Loan.

            C. Governing Law/Partial Illegality. This Agreement and the Related
      Documents shall be interpreted and the rights of the parties determined
      under the laws of the State of Michigan. Should any part, term, or
      provision of this Agreement be adjudged illegal or in conflict with any
      law of the United States of America or State of Michigan, the validity of
      the remaining portion or provisions of the Agreement shall not be
      affected.

            D. Writings Constitute Entire Agreement; Modifications Only in
      Writing. This Agreement together with all other written agreements between
      Borrowers and


                                      -7-
<PAGE>
      Lender, including, without limitation, the Related Documents, constitute
      the entire agreement of the parties and there are no other agreements,
      express or implied. None of the parties shall be bound by anything not
      expressed in writing, and neither this Agreement nor the Related Documents
      can be modified except by a writing executed by Borrowers and by Lender.
      This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon all
      of the parties to this Agreement and their respective successors and
      assigns; provided however, that neither Borrower may assign or transfer
      its rights or obligations under this Agreement without Lender's prior
      written consent.

            E. Headings. All section and paragraph headings in this Agreement
      are included for reference only and do not constitute a part of this
      Agreement.

            F. Term of Agreement. This Agreement shall continue in full force
      and effect until all of Borrowers' obligations to Lender are fully
      satisfied and the Loan is fully repaid.

            G. Counterparts; Reproductions. This Agreement may be executed in
      counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of
      which together shall constitute one instrument. Facsimile copies of
      signatures to this Agreement shall be deemed to be originals, and the
      parties may rely upon such facsimile copies to the same extent as the
      originals.

      10.   DEFINITIONS.   The  following   words  shall  have  the  following
meanings in this Agreement:

            A. "Change of Control Event" shall mean, with respect to each
      Borrower, (a) an event or series of events by which any person, entity or
      group (as such term is used in Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) of persons or other
      entities acting in concert as a partnership or other group (a "Group of
      Persons") (other than persons who are, or Groups of Persons entirely made
      up of, (i) management personnel of such Borrower or (ii) any affiliates of
      any such management personnel) shall, as a result of a tender or exchange
      offer or offers, an open market purchase or purchases, a privately
      negotiated purchase or purchases or otherwise, become the beneficial owner
      (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, except that a
      person or entity shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all
      securities that such person or entity has the right to acquire, whether
      such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time),
      directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the combined voting power of the
      then outstanding voting stock of such Borrower; or (b) such Borrower
      consolidates with, or merges with or into, another person or entity, or
      sells, assigns, conveys, transfers, leases or otherwise disposes of all or
      substantially all of its assets to any person or entity, or any person or
      entity consolidates with, or merges with or into such Borrower, in any
      such event pursuant to a transaction in which the outstanding voting stock
      of Borrower is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other
      property.

            B.     "Event of Default"  shall mean any of the events  described
      in Section 5 of this Agreement or in the Related Documents.

            C. "Financial Statements" shall mean all balance sheets, income
      statements, and other financial information which have been, are now, or
      in the future are furnished to Lender.

             D. "Second Amended Note" shall mean that certain line of credit
      promissory note from Borrowers to Lender, in the form attached hereto as
      EXHIBIT A, as amended from time to time.


                                      -8-
<PAGE>
            E. "Related Documents" shall mean any and all documents, promissory
      notes, and agreements executed in connection with this Agreement. This
      term shall include documents existing before, at the time of execution of,
      and documents executed concurrent with or after the date of, this
      Agreement.


                        [signatures on following page]


                                      -9-
<PAGE>
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amended and Restated
Subordinated Loan Agreement as of the date first written above.


                                    BORROWERS:

                                    ORIGEN FINANCIAL, L.L.C., a Delaware
                                    limited liability company

                                    By:   /s/ Ronald Klein
                                       ---------------------------------------

                                    Its:  CEO
                                        --------------------------------------



                                    ORIGEN FINANCIAL, INC., a Virginia
                                    corporation


                                    By:  /s/ Ronald Klein
                                       ---------------------------------------

                                    Its:  CEO
                                        --------------------------------------


                                    LENDER:

                                    SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED
                                    PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited
                                    partnership

                                    By: Sun Communities, Inc., a Maryland
                                    corporation
                                    Its:  General Partner


                                          By:   /s/ Gary A. Shiffman
                                             ---------------------------------

                                          Its:  President
                                              --------------------------------


                                      -10-
<PAGE>
                                                                   Exhibit 10.51


                     FIRST AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED
                           SUBORDINATED LOAN AGREEMENT

      THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED SUBORDINATED LOAN AGREEMENT
(the "Amendment") is made and entered into as of March 22, 2002 by and among
ORIGEN FINANCIAL, INC., a Virginia corporation ("Origen Inc."), whose address is
260 East Brown Street, Suite 200, Birmingham, Michigan 48009, ORIGEN FINANCIAL
L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company ("Origen LLC" and together with
Origen Inc., the "Borrowers"), whose address is 260 East Brown Street, Suite
200, Birmingham, Michigan 48009, and SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED
PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited partnership ("Lender"), whose address is 31700
Middlebelt Road, Suite 145, Farmington Hills, Michigan 48334.

                                  RECITALS:

      A. Borrowers and Lender have entered into that certain Amended and
Restated Subordinated Loan Agreement dated February 1, 2002 (the "Loan
Agreement"). All capitalized terms not defined in this Amendment shall have the
meanings given to them in the Loan Agreement.

      B.    Borrowers and Lender desire to amend the Loan Agreement in
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Amendment.

      NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:

      1.    Section 1 of the Loan Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety
and replaced with the following Section 1:

            "LOAN.  The Line of Credit provided hereunder shall have the
      following terms:

<TABLE>
<S>                             <C>
            Type of Loan:       Line of Credit

            Interest Rate:      700 basis points over LIBOR, but not less than
                                eleven percent (11%) per annum, or in excess of
                                fifteen percent (15%) per annum

            Note Amount:        $21,250,000

            Maturity:           December 18, 2002

            Fees:               $28,125.00
</TABLE>

      The Loan and any amendments, extensions, renewals, or refinancing thereof
      are subject to this Agreement."

      2. Upon the execution of this Amendment, Borrowers shall execute and
deliver to Lender a Third Amended and Restated Promissory Note dated March 22,
2002, in the form attached to this Amendment as EXHIBIT A (the "Third Amended
Note"). The Third Amended Note shall replace the Second Amended and Restated
Promissory Note dated February 1, 2002 executed by Borrowers in connection with
the Loan Agreement. All references in the Loan Agreement to the "Second Amended
Note" are hereby amended to be the "Third Amended Note."

      3.    Upon the execution of this Amendment, Borrowers shall pay Lender
an origination fee of $28,125.00.
<PAGE>
      4. Unless otherwise modified by this Amendment, all provisions of the Loan
Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

      5. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of
which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and
the same agreement. Facsimile or photographic reproductions of this Amendment
may be made and relied upon to the same extent as though such fax or copy were
an original.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this First Amendment to
Amended and Restated Subordinated Loan Agreement as of the date first written
above.

                                    BORROWERS:

                                    ORIGEN FINANCIAL, INC., a Virginia
                                    corporation

                                    By: /s/ Ronald Klein
                                       ---------------------------------

                                    Its: CEO
                                        --------------------------------


                                    ORIGEN FINANCIAL L.L.C., a Delaware
                                    limited liability company

                                    By: /s/ Ronald Klein
                                       ---------------------------------

                                    Its: CEO
                                        --------------------------------


                                    LENDER:

                                    SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED
                                    PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited
                                    partnership

                                    By: Sun Communities, Inc., a Maryland
                                    corporation
                                    Its:  General Partner


                                          By: /s/ Gary A. Shiffman
                                             ---------------------------------

                                          Its: President
                                              --------------------------------


                                      -2-



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.52
<SEQUENCE>11
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-52.txt
<DESCRIPTION>3RD AMENDED AND RESTATED PROMISSORY NOTE
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                   Exhibit 10.52


                   THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED PROMISSORY NOTE


DUE DATE:  DECEMBER 18, 2002                                   DETROIT, MICHIGAN
                                                     DATED: AS OF MARCH 22, 2002

      FOR VALUE RECEIVED, EACH OF ORIGEN FINANCIAL, INC., a Virginia corporation
("Origen Inc."), and ORIGEN FINANCIAL, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability
company ("Origen LLC" and together with Origen Inc., the "Borrowers"), jointly
and severally promise to pay to the order of SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED
PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited partnership ("Lender"), at 31700 Middlebelt
Road, Suite 145, Farmington Hills, Michigan 48334, or at such other place as
Lender may designate in writing, the principal sum of TWENTY ONE MILLION TWO
HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND AND NO/100 DOLLARS ($21,250,000) (the "Credit Limit"), or
such lesser sum as shall have been advanced by Lender to Borrowers under the
loan account hereinafter described, plus interest as hereinafter provided, all
in lawful money of the United States of America, in accordance with the terms
hereof. This Note is subject to the terms of that certain Amended and Restated
Subordinated Loan Agreement between Borrowers and Lender dated February 1, 2002,
as amended by the First Amendment to Amended and Restated Subordinated Loan
Agreement dated March 22, 2002 (the "Amended Loan Agreement"), the terms of
which are incorporated herein by reference.

      ADVANCES. This Note is given as evidence of any and all indebtedness of
the Borrowers to Lender arising as a result of advances or other credit which
may be made under this Note from time to time. Lender shall, from time to time
prior to the Due Date, make advances to Borrowers hereunder upon request
therefor by Borrowers, provided that upon giving effect to such advance no Event
of Default (as hereinafter defined) and no event which with notice and/or the
passage of time would become an Event of Default shall exist, and that all
representations and warranties of Borrowers theretofore made are true and
correct and that Lender shall not have previously or concurrently declared all
amounts owing hereunder to be immediately due and payable and that the amount
requested shall not cause the total amount outstanding hereunder to exceed
Credit Limit. Advances hereunder may be requested by telephone, in writing or in
any other manner acceptable to Lender. The principal amount of indebtedness
owing pursuant to this Note shall change from time to time decreasing in amounts
equal to any and all payments of principal made by the Borrowers and increasing
by amounts equal to any and all advances made by Lender to the Borrowers
pursuant to the terms hereof. The books and records of Lender shall be
conclusive evidence of the amount of principal and interest owing hereunder at
any time, unless Lender receives a written statement of exceptions from
Borrowers within ten (10) days after such statement has been furnished. From
time to time but not less than quarterly, Lender shall furnish Borrowers a
statement of Borrowers' loan account.

      INTEREST. The unpaid principal balance of this Note shall bear interest,
computed on the basis of a year of 360 days for the actual number of days
elapsed in a month, at a rate of interest of 700 basis points over LIBOR (the
"Rate"), which Rate shall not be less than 11% per annum or exceed 15% per annum
(the Rate shall be adjusted for purposes of this Note on the last day of every
fiscal quarter beginning on March 31, 2002), until the entire principal balance
of this Note, and all accrued and unpaid interest has been paid in full.
<PAGE>
      PAYMENT. Accrued and unpaid interest on the unpaid principal balance of
this Note from time to time shall be due and payable monthly, in arrears, on the
last day of each consecutive month until the Due Date. The remaining principal
balance shall be due and payable on the Due Date, along with any accrued and
unpaid interest as of the Due Date.

      All payments made hereunder shall be applied first against costs and
expenses required to be paid hereunder, then against accrued interest to the
extent thereof and the balance shall be applied against the outstanding
principal amount hereof. Borrowers expressly assume all risks of loss or delay
in the delivery of any payments made by mail, and no course of conduct or
dealing shall affect Borrowers' assumption of these risks.

      DEFAULT. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, as defined in the
Amended Loan Agreement, the entire unpaid principal balance and all accrued and
unpaid interest owing under this Note shall, at Lender's option, be immediately
due and payable, together with costs and attorneys fees reasonably incurred by
Lender in collecting or enforcing payment.

      Acceptance by Lender of any payment in an amount less than the amount then
due shall be deemed an acceptance on account only, and Borrowers' failure to pay
the entire amount then due shall be and continue to be a default. Upon the
occurrence of any Event of Default, neither the failure of Lender promptly to
exercise its right to declare the outstanding principal and accrued unpaid
interest hereunder to be immediately due and payable, nor the failure of Lender
to demand strict performance of any other obligation of Borrowers or any other
person who may be liable hereunder, shall constitute a waiver of any such
rights, nor a waiver of such rights in connection with any future default on the
part of Borrowers or any other person who may be liable hereunder.

      INTEREST RATE LIMITED TO MAXIMUM RATE. Notwithstanding anything herein to
the contrary, in no event shall Borrowers be required to pay a rate of interest
in excess of the Maximum Rate. The term "Maximum Rate" shall mean the maximum
non-usurious rate of interest that Lender is allowed to contract for, charge,
take, reserve or receive under the applicable laws of any applicable state or of
the United States of America (whichever from time to time permits the highest
rate for the use, forbearance or detention of money) after taking into account,
to the extent required by applicable law, any and all relevant payments or
charges hereunder, or under any other document or instrument executed and
delivered in connection herewith and the indebtedness evidenced hereby.

      In the event Lender ever receives, as interest, any amount in excess of
the Maximum Rate, such amount as would be excessive interest shall be deemed a
partial prepayment of principal, and, if the principal hereof is paid in full,
any remaining excess shall be returned to Borrowers. In determining whether or
not the interest paid or payable, under any specified contingency, exceeds the
Maximum Rate, Borrowers and Lender shall, to the maximum extent permitted by
law, (a) characterize any non-principal payment as an expense, fee, or premium
rather than as interest; (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects
thereof; and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate and spread the total amount of
interest through and including the Due Date (including the period of any


                                      -2-
<PAGE>
extension or renewal thereof) so that the interest on account of such
indebtedness shall not exceed the Maximum Rate.

      SUCCESSORS/ASSIGNS. This Note shall be binding upon Borrowers and their
respective successors and assigns, and the benefits hereof shall inure to Lender
and its successors and assigns.

      GENERAL. Borrowers and all endorsees, sureties and guarantors hereof
hereby jointly and severally waive presentment for payment, demand, notice of
non-payment, notice of protest or protest of this Note, and Lender diligence in
collection or bringing suit, and do hereby consent to any and all extensions of
time, renewals, waivers or modifications as may be granted by Lender with
respect to payment or any other provisions of this Note. The liability of
Borrowers under this Note shall be absolute and unconditional, without regard to
the liability of any other party.

      This Note has been executed in the State of Michigan, and all rights and
obligations hereunder shall be governed by the laws of the State of Michigan.

      To secure the payment of all amounts due to Lender by Borrower in
connection with the loan evidenced by this Note and pursuant to terms of the
Amended Loan Agreement and this Note, Borrowers have granted Lender a security
interest in the assets described under the following documents: (i) the Security
Agreement dated February 1, 2002 between Origen LLC and Lender, as amended from
time to time, (ii) Amended and Restated Security Agreement dated February 1,
2002 between Origen Inc. and Lender, as amended from time to time, (iii) the
Amended and Restated Stock Pledge Agreement dated February 1, 2002 between
Origen Inc. and Lender, as amended from time to time, (iv) the Limited Liability
Company Interest Security and Pledge Agreement dated February 1, 2002 between
Origen LLC and Lender, as amended from time to time, and (v) the Amended and
Restated Limited Liability Company Interest Security and Pledge Agreement dated
February 1, 2002 between Origen Inc. and Lender, as amended from time to time.


      This Note is an amendment to and restatement of that certain Second
Amended and Restated Promissory Note dated February 1, 2002 executed by Origen
Financial, Inc. in favor of Lender (the "Prior Note"), and this Note amends,
supersedes and replaces the Prior Note.

                          [signature page attached]


                                      -3-
<PAGE>
                                    BORROWERS:

                                    ORIGEN FINANCIAL, L.L.C., a Delaware
                                    limited liability company

                                    By: /s/ Ronald Klein
                                       ---------------------------------------

                                    Its: CEO
                                        --------------------------------------



                                    ORIGEN FINANCIAL, INC., a Virginia
                                    corporation


                                    By: /s/ Ronald Klein
                                       ---------------------------------------

                                    Its: CEO
                                        --------------------------------------


                                      -4-

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.53
<SEQUENCE>12
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-53.txt
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED AND RESTATED SECURITY AGREEMENT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.53

                     AMENDED AND RESTATED SECURITY AGREEMENT

      THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED SECURITY AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is entered
into as of February 1, 2002 by and between ORIGEN FINANCIAL, INC., a Virginia
corporation whose address is 260 E. Brown Street, Suite 200, Birmingham,
Michigan 48009 ("Borrower") and SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a
Michigan limited partnership whose address is 31700 Middlebelt Road, Suite 145,
Farmington Hills, MI 48334 ("Secured Party").

                                    RECITALS:

            A. Borrower and Secured Party entered into a Subordinated Loan
      Agreement dated December 18, 2001 (the "Original Loan Agreement"), in
      which Secured Party agreed to make a line of credit available to Borrower
      for up to $12,500,000 thereafter (the "Original Line of Credit"), and in
      connection with the Original Line of Credit Borrower executed and
      delivered to Sun Communities, Inc. a Demand Promissory Note dated December
      18, 2001, with an original principal amount of $12,500,000 (the "Original
      Note").

            B. To secure the payment of all amounts due to Secured Party by
      Borrower in connection with the Original Line of Credit and pursuant to
      terms of the Original Loan Agreement and the Original Note, and to secure
      all of Borrower's other obligations to Secured Party of any nature,
      Borrower executed a Security Agreement dated December 18, 2001 (the
      "Original Security Agreement").

            D. The Secured Party, Borrower, and Origen Financial, L.L.C., a
      Delaware limited liability company ("Origen LLC") have entered into an
      Amended and Restated Subordinated Loan Agreement dated February 1, 2002
      (as amended from time to time, the "Amended Loan Agreement") under which
      Secured Party has agreed to increase the Original Line of Credit up to the
      amount of $17,500,000 (the "Amended Line of Credit") as evidenced by an
      Amended and Restated Promissory Note dated February 1, 2002 (as amended
      from time to time, "Amended Note"), and pursuant to the terms of the
      Related Documents (as defined in the Amended Loan Agreement).

            E. To secure the payment of all amounts due to Secured Party by
      Borrower in connection with the Amended Line of Credit and pursuant to
      terms of the Amended Loan Agreement, the Amended Note and to secure all of
      Borrower's other obligations to Secured Party of any nature now or in the
      future owing from Borrower to Secured Party (the "Obligations"), Borrower,
      together with the Secured Party, desire to amend and restate the Original
      Pledge Agreement in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
      Agreement.

      THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:

      1. DEFINITIONS. Unless otherwise defined herein, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
<PAGE>
      (a) "Accounts" means all "accounts", as such term is defined in Section
      9-102(2) of the Code, in which Borrower now or hereafter has any right,
      title or interest.

      (b) "Books" means all books, records and correspondence relating to the
      Collateral (as defined herein).

      (c) "Chattel Paper" means any and all "chattel paper", as such term is
      defined in Section 9-102(11) of the Code, in which Borrower now or
      hereafter has any right, title or interest.

      (d) "Code" means the Uniform Commercial Code as the same may from time to
      time be in effect in the State of Michigan.

      (e) "Contracts" means any and all contracts, instruments, undertakings,
      documents, leases or other agreements in or under which Borrower may now
      or hereafter has any right, title or interest and which pertain to the
      purchase, lease, sale or other disposition by Borrower of any Inventory,
      Equipment, Fixtures, real property or any interest in real property, as
      any of the same may from time to time be amended, supplemented or
      otherwise modified.

      (f) "Current Accounts" means an Account that arises from a bona fide
      outright sale of goods by Borrower, or from services performed by Borrower
      that is not subject to any claim of reduction, counterclaim, set-off,
      allowances, adjustments, or the like, and is not outstanding more than 60
      days from the date of its invoice.

      (g) "Documents" means any and all "documents" and "instruments", as such
      terms are defined in Section 9-102(30) and (47) of the Code, in which
      Borrower now or hereafter has any right, title or interest.

      (h) "Equipment" means all "equipment", as such term is defined in Section
      9-102(33) of the Code, in which Borrower now or hereafter has any right,
      title or interest.

      (i) "Fixtures" means, to the extent not otherwise included as Equipment,
      all machinery, apparatus, equipment, fittings, fixtures, furniture and
      furnishings in which Borrower now or hereafter has any right, title or
      interest located upon or affixed to or which becomes affixed to any real
      property owned or leased by Borrower, or any part thereof, and used or
      usable in connection with any future occupancy or use of such premises,
      including replacements and additions thereto.

      (j) "General Intangibles" means all "general intangibles", as such term is
      defined in Section 9-102(42) of the Code, in which Borrower now or
      hereafter has any right, title or interest. General Intangibles shall also
      include all equity interests of Borrower in other entities, including but
      not limited to membership interest in Origen Special Purpose II, L.L.C., a
      Delaware limited liability company.

      (k) "Inventory" means all "inventory", as such term is defined in Section
      9-102(48) of the Code, in which Borrower now or hereafter has any right,
      title or interest.


                                       2
<PAGE>
      (l) "Loans" means any loan originated by or acquired by Borrower, whether
      an original loan, an additional loan or a substitution for an existing
      loan including all indebtedness of any Borrower with respect to such loans
      or any collateral pledge with respect to such loans including but not
      limited to any manufactured homes, together with all other collateral
      provided as security for such loans; servicing agreements, backup
      servicing agreements, servicing records, insurance, guarantees,
      indemnitees, and warranties and proceeds thereof, financing statements and
      other agreements or arrangements of whatever character from time to time
      relating to the loans, income if any from the loans, all hedges, all
      insured closing letters, all escrow instructions covering all or any of
      the loans, all collections from such loans, all blocked accounts and all
      amounts and deposits therein, all collection accounts and escrow accounts
      relating to any loan, all dealer financing agreements, all loan
      agreements, all loan documents, all consignment agreements, sale
      contracts, security agreements, the right to payment of interest or
      finance charges and collateral securing such obligations, and any other
      rights and other assets relating to such loans or any interest in the
      loans, whether constituting real or personal property, accounts, chattel
      paper, equipment, goods, instruments, general intangibles, inventory or
      proceeds, or securities backed by or representing an interest in such
      loans and any and all replacements, substitutions, distributions on or
      proceeds of any and all of the foregoing.

      (m) "Proceeds" means all "proceeds", as such term is defined in Section
      9-102(64) of the Code.

      2. SECURITY INTEREST. Borrower hereby grants to Secured Party a continuing
security interest in all of its right, title and interest in, to and under all
Accounts, Current Accounts, Books, Chattel Paper, Contracts, Documents,
Equipment, Fixtures, General Intangibles, Inventory, Loans and Proceeds
(collectively, the "Collateral"). This grant is made for the purpose of securing
the Obligations owing by Borrower to Secured Party. Borrower promises punctually
to pay the Obligations when it is so required in accordance with the Obligations
and any note or agreement evidencing the Obligations, including the Amended
Note.

      3. SUBORDINATION. The security interests in the Collateral granted to
Secured Party may be subordinate to and subject to liens or security interests
which the holders of Senior Debt (as defined in the Amended Loan Agreement) may
now or hereafter have in the Collateral as a result of any indebtedness of
Borrower comprising the Senior Debt. If subordinated, such subordination shall
be evidenced within the provisions of the Amended Loan Agreement, and, if
required by the holders of the Senior Debt, in a separate written subordination
agreement between the Secured Party and the holders of the Senior Debt.

      4. WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS. Borrower represents, warrants and covenants
to Secured Party as follows:

            (a) Except for the security interests granted hereby and any other
      security interests authorized by this Agreement or any other agreement
      between Borrower and Secured Party, Borrower is, or, as to Collateral to
      be acquired by Borrower after the date


                                       3
<PAGE>
      hereof, will be, the owner of the Collateral free from any adverse lien,
      security interest or encumbrance other than those identified on the
      attached EXHIBIT A; and Borrower agrees to defend the Collateral and
      proceeds thereof against any claims and demands of all persons at any time
      claiming the same or any interest therein.

            (b) The security interests hereby created are valid and Borrower has
      the authority and right to subject the Collateral to the security
      interests hereby created.

            (c) All financial statements, certificates and other information
      concerning the financial condition of Borrower, and proceeds hereafter
      furnished by Borrower to Secured Party shall be in all respects true and
      correct at the time the same are provided and shall be deemed, for all
      purposes, to have been furnished by Borrower to Secured Party for the
      purpose of obtaining credit or an extension of credit.

            (d) This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by a duly
      authorized officer of Borrower and constitutes the legal, valid and
      binding obligation of Borrower, enforceable in accordance with its terms.

            (e) Borrower does not conduct Borrower's business under any other
      name than that given above, and agrees not to change or reorganize the
      business entity under which it does business except upon the Secured
      Party's prior written approval.

            (f) There are no actions or proceedings either threatened or pending
      against Borrower which might result in any material adverse change in
      Borrower's financial condition or materially affect any of Borrower's
      assets.

All of Borrower's warranties contained in this Section 4 shall be continuing
warranties until Borrower has no remaining Obligations to Secured Party.

      5. LOSS OR DEPRECIATION OF COLLATERAL. Borrower shall immediately notify
Secured Party of any event causing a material loss or depreciation in value of
Collateral and the amount of such loss or depreciation.

      6. RECORDS, INSPECTION, AUDIT AND COVENANT FOR FURTHER ASSURANCES.

            (a) At the request of Secured Party, Borrower will advise Secured
      Party of the places where its books of Accounts and records, including all
      records of the Collateral and the dispositions made thereof by Borrower
      and of its Accounts and all collections thereon, are kept and maintained.

            (b) Borrower will keep and maintain such books and records with
      respect to the Collateral as Secured Party may from time to time
      reasonably prescribe for the purpose of enabling Secured Party to audit
      the same.

            (c) Borrower shall at all reasonable times and from time to time
      allow Secured Party, by or through any of its agents, attorneys or
      accountants, to examine or inspect the


                                       4
<PAGE>
      Collateral wherever located and to examine, inspect and make extracts from
      Borrower's books and records. Borrower shall do, make, execute and deliver
      all such additional and further acts, things, deeds, assurances and
      instruments as Secured Party may reasonably require, to assure to Secured
      Party its rights hereunder.

      7. PRESERVATION AND DISPOSITION OF THE COLLATERAL AND PROCEEDS.

            (a) Borrower will keep the Collateral in good condition and will not
      waste or destroy any of the same. Borrower will not use the Collateral in
      violation of any statute or ordinance.

            (b) Borrower will pay promptly when due all taxes, assessments and
      governmental charges upon or against the Collateral before the same become
      delinquent and before penalties accrue thereon.

            (c) At its option, Secured Party may discharge taxes, liens, other
      encumbrances or security interests not otherwise authorized by this
      Agreement or any other agreement between Borrower and Secured Party at any
      time levied or placed on the Collateral and may pay for the maintenance
      and preservation of the Collateral. Borrower agrees to reimburse Secured
      Party, on demand, for any payment made or any expense incurred by Secured
      Party pursuant to the foregoing authorization.

            (d) Borrower, at its own expense, shall keep all of the Collateral
      fully insured against loss or damage by fire, theft, explosion, business
      interruption, and all other risks, in such amounts, with such companies,
      under such policies, and in such form as shall be satisfactory to Secured
      Party.

            (e) Borrower, unless in default, may use, consume and sell Inventory
      in carrying on its business in the ordinary course; but a sale in the
      ordinary course of business shall not include any transfer or sale in
      satisfaction, partial or complete, of a debt owed by Borrower. Borrower
      shall not, without the prior written consent of Secured Party, otherwise
      sell or dispose of the Collateral or any portion thereof.

      8. COLLECTIONS. In the absence of contrary instructions from Secured
Party, Borrower at its own expense shall take all necessary action promptly to
collect its Accounts and Loans. Upon an Event of Default, as such term is
defined in the Amended Loan Agreement, and when and to the extent required by
Secured Party, Borrower shall (a) pay or deliver all cash proceeds of Accounts
and Loans to Secured Party immediately upon receipt in the exact form received
without commingling with other property, or (b) immediately upon receipt,
deposit all such proceeds in a collateral collection account established and
controlled by Secured Party at a financial institution of its choosing, and/or
(c) notify account borrowers that their accounts, Loans and/or contract rights
(to the extent included in Accounts) have been assigned to Secured Party and
shall be paid directly to Secured Party. At its option, at any time after an
Event of Default and at Borrower's expense, Secured Party may, in addition to
its other rights hereunder, sue, compromise on terms it considers proper,
endorse, sell or otherwise deal with the Accounts and Loans and proceeds of any
Collateral either in its own name or that of Borrower. After deduction


                                       5
<PAGE>
of any expenses, including, without limitation, attorneys fees and expenses, to
the extent permitted under applicable law, all proceeds received by Secured
Party may be applied by Secured Party to payment of any Obligations, if due,
whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, in such order as Secured
Party may choose. At any time and from time to time, Secured Party may make like
application of the balance of the collateral collection account or it may
release all or a part of the balance to Borrower.

      9. ASSIGNMENTS, INVOICES AND INFORMATION. At Secured Party's request,
Borrower shall:

            (a) give Secured Party assignments in the form specified by Secured
      Party of specific Accounts and Loans as the Accounts and Loans arise;

            (b) furnish Secured Party with the original or a copy of invoices,
      and contracts applicable to each Account and Loan noting thereon, if
      Secured Party so requires, Secured Party's assignment and any additional
      statement required; and/or

            (c) notify Secured Party immediately if any Account or Loan arises
      out of a contract with the United States or any of its agencies and take
      any action required by Secured Party with reference to the Federal
      Assignment of Claims Act.

      10. NOTATION OF ASSIGNMENT, INFORMATION AND PAYMENT OF ACCOUNTS. When and
to the extent required by Secured Party, Borrower shall:

            (a) mark records of Accounts, Loans and contract rights (to the
      extent included in Accounts) in a manner satisfactory to Secured Party to
      show Secured Party's interest therein;

            (b) furnish to Secured Party satisfactory evidence of performance of
      contracts and Loans; and

            (c) give Secured Party lists of account borrowers (showing names,
      addresses and amounts owing) and such other data concerning its Accounts
      and Loans as Secured Party may from time to time specify.

      11. FINANCING STATEMENTS; PERFECTION.

            (a) Borrower irrevocably authorizes Secured Party to prepare and
      file any financing statement, amendments, continuations, and all other
      documents, as Secured Party deems necessary to perfect and maintain the
      security interest and lien granted herein. This authorization shall remain
      in full force and effect and may be relied on by Secured Party as long as
      any Obligations remain outstanding.

            (b) Borrower agrees to promptly execute and deliver to Secured
      Party, concurrently with this Agreement and at any time thereafter, at
      Secured Party's request, all financing statements, assignments, promissory
      notes, certificates of title, affidavits,


                                       6
<PAGE>
      reports, notices, schedules of Accounts, designations of Inventory,
      letters of authority, stock certificates and any and all other documents
      and agreements, in form satisfactory to Secured Party, to perfect and
      maintain its security interest in the Collateral.

            (c) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or any other
      agreement between Borrower and Secured Party, without the prior written
      consent of Secured Party, Borrower will not allow or suffer any adverse
      financing statement covering the Collateral, or any portion thereof, to be
      on file in any public office.

      12. RIGHTS AND REMEDIES ON DEFAULT. Upon the occurrence of any Event of
      Default, and at any time thereafter, Secured Party shall have the rights
      and remedies of a secured party under the Code in addition to the rights
      and remedies provided herein or in any other instrument or agreement
      executed by Borrower.

      Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Borrower expressly
      agrees that in any such event Secured Party, without demand of performance
      or other demand, advertisement or notice of any kind (except the notice
      specified below of time and place of public or private sale) to or upon
      Borrower or any other person (all and each of which demands,
      advertisements and/or notices are hereby expressly waived), may forthwith
      collect, receive, appropriate and realize upon the Collateral, or any part
      thereof, and/or may forthwith sell, lease, assign, give an option or
      options to purchase or sell or otherwise dispose of and deliver the
      Collateral (or contract to do so), or any part thereof, in one or more
      parcels at public or private sale or sales, at any exchange broker's board
      or at any of Secured Party's offices or elsewhere at such prices as
      Secured Party may deem best, for cash or on credit or for future delivery
      without assumption of any credit risk. Secured Party shall have the right
      upon any such public sale or sales and, to the extent permitted by law,
      upon any such private sale or sales, to purchase the whole or any part of
      the Collateral so sold, free of any right of equity of redemption, which
      equity of redemption Borrower hereby releases. Secured Party may require
      Borrower to assemble the Collateral and proceeds and make them available
      to Secured Party at a place to be designated by Secured Party which is
      reasonably convenient to all parties.

      Secured Party shall apply the net proceeds of any such collection,
      recovery, receipt, appropriation, realization or sale after deducting all
      reasonable costs and expenses of every kind incurred therein or incidental
      to the care, safe-keeping or otherwise of any or all of the Collateral or
      in any way relating to the rights of Secured Party hereunder, including,
      without limitation, reasonable attorneys fees and expenses, to the payment
      in whole or in part of the Obligations, in such order as Secured Party may
      elect, Borrower remaining liable for any deficiency remaining unpaid after
      such application, and only after so paying over such net proceeds and
      after the payment by Secured Party of any other amount required by any
      provision of law, need Secured Party account for the surplus, if any, to
      Borrower. To the extent permitted by applicable law, Borrower waives all
      claims, damages and demands against Secured Party arising out of the
      repossession, retention or sale of the Collateral. Unless the Collateral
      is perishable or threatens to decline speedily in value or is of a type
      customarily sold on a recognized market, Secured Party will give Borrower
      reasonable notice of the time and place of any public sale thereof or of
      the time


                                       7
<PAGE>
      after which any private sale or other intended disposition thereof is to
      be made. The requirement of reasonable notice shall be met if such notice
      is mailed, postage prepaid, to the address of Borrower, at least ten (10)
      days before the time of the sale or disposition. Borrower shall pay to
      Secured Party on demand any and all expenses, including, without
      limitation, reasonable attorneys fees and expenses, to the extent
      permitted under applicable law, incurred or paid by Secured Party in
      protecting or enforcing the Obligations and other rights of Secured Party
      hereunder including its rights to take possession of Collateral and
      proceeds thereof.

      13. SECURED PARTY'S APPOINTMENT AS ATTORNEY-IN-FACT. Borrower hereby
irrevocably constitutes and appoints Secured Party, with full power of
substitution, as its true and lawful attorney-in-fact with full power and
authority in the place and stead of Borrower and in the name of Borrower or in
its own name, from time to time in the sole and absolute discretion of Secured
Party, for the purpose of carrying out the terms of this Agreement, to take any
and all appropriate action and to execute any and all documents and instruments,
including without limitation, any financing statements necessary or helpful to
perfect or continue Secured Party's security interest in the Collateral, which
may be necessary or desirable to accomplish the purposes of this Agreement. This
power of attorney being coupled by an interest shall be irrevocable so long as
any Obligations remain unpaid. All acts of any such attorney are ratified and
approved, and except for willful misconduct, he or she will not be liable for
any act or omission or for any error of judgment or mistake of law.

      14. SECURITY NOT CONTINGENT. Secured Party's rights under this Agreement
shall not be contingent upon the exercise or enforcement by Secured Party of any
other rights or remedies he may have against Borrower or others. No election by
Secured Party to proceed in one form of action or proceeding, or against any
party, or on any obligation, shall constitute a waiver of Secured Party's right
to enforce its rights under this Agreement.

      15. GENERAL. Secured Party shall not be deemed to have waived any of its
rights hereunder or under any other agreement or instrument signed by Borrower
unless such waiver be in writing and signed by Secured Party. No delay or
omission on the part of Secured Party in exercising any right shall operate as a
waiver of such right or any other right. A waiver on any one occasion shall not
be construed as a bar to or waiver of any right or remedy on any future
occasion. All of Secured Party's rights and remedies, whether evidenced hereby
or by any other agreement or instrument, shall be cumulative and may be
exercised singularly or concurrently. Any demand upon or notice to Borrower that
Secured Party may elect to give shall be effective when deposited in the mails
addressed to Borrower at its principal place of business. Demands or notices
addressed to Borrower's address at which Secured Party customarily communicates
with Borrower shall also be effective. This Agreement shall be terminated only
by the filing of a termination statement in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the Code and/or when there are no outstanding Obligations and no
commitments on the part of Borrower to Secured Party under any agreement which
might give rise to any Obligations. Prior to such termination this shall be a
continuing agreement in every respect. This Agreement and all rights and
obligations hereunder including matters of construction, validity and
performance, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Michigan. This
Agreement is intended to take effect when signed by Borrower and delivered to
Secured Party. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each


                                       8
<PAGE>
of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together shall
constitute one instrument. Facsimile copies of signatures to this Agreement
shall be deemed to be originals, and the parties may rely upon such facsimile
copies to the same extent as the originals.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amended and Restated
Security Agreement as of the day and year above written.

                                   "BORROWER"


                                   ORIGEN FINANCIAL, INC., a Virginia
                                   corporation

                                   By: /s/ Ronald Klein
                                       ----------------------------------------

                                   Its: CEO
                                        ---------------------------------------

                                   "SECURED PARTY"


                                   SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED
                                   PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited partnership

                                   By:  Sun Communities, Inc., a Maryland
                                        corporation
                                   Its: General Partner

                                   By: /s/ Gary A. Shiffman
                                       ----------------------------------------

                                   Its: President
                                        ---------------------------------------




                                       9

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.54
<SEQUENCE>13
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-54.txt
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK PLEDGE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.54

                   AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK PLEDGE AGREEMENT

      This AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK PLEDGE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is
entered into as of February 1, 2002, by and between ORIGEN FINANCIAL, INC., a
Virginia corporation ("Pledgor") and SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED
PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited partnership ("Secured Party").

                                    RECITALS:

      A. Pledgor is a shareholder of the following corporations: Origen Special
Holdings Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("OSH"), Origen Manufactured Home
Financial, Inc., a Virginia corporation ("OMHF"), and Origen Insurance Agency,
Inc., a Virginia corporation ("OIA", collectively with OSH and OMHF, the "Origen
Subsidiaries").

      B. The Secured Party had previously made available to Pledgor a line of
credit up to the amount of $12,500,000 (the "Original Loan"), pursuant to the
terms and conditions of that certain Subordinated Loan Agreement dated December
18, 2001, as amended, between Pledgor and the Secured Party (the "Original Loan
Agreement") and related documents.

      C. To secure the prompt satisfaction by Pledgor of all of its obligations
to the Secured Party under the Original Loan Agreement and related documents,
Pledgor executed and delivered to Secured Party a Limited Liability Company
Interest Security and Pledge Agreement dated December 18, 2001 (the "Original
Pledge Agreement").

      D. The Secured Party, Pledgor, and Origen Financial, L.L.C., a Delaware
limited liability company ("Origen LLC") have entered into an Amended and
Restated Subordinated Loan Agreement dated February 1, 2002 (as amended from
time to time, the "Amended Loan Agreement") under which Secured Party has agreed
to increase the line of credit under the Original Loan up to the amount of
$17,500,000 (the "Amended Loan") as evidenced by an Amended and Restated
Promissory Note dated February 1, 2002 (as amended from time to time, "Amended
Note"), and pursuant to the terms of the Related Documents (as defined in the
Amended Loan Agreement).

      E. To secure the prompt satisfaction by Pledgor of all of its obligations
to the Secured Party under the Amended Loan and to secure all of Borrower's
other obligations to Secured Party of any nature now or in the future owing from
Borrower to Secured Party, Pledgor, together with Secured Party, desires to
amend and restate the Original Pledge Agreement in accordance with the terms and
conditions of this Agreement.

      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and the mutual
covenants contained herein, the parties agree as follows:

      1. GRANT OF SECURITY INTEREST. As security for the prompt and complete
payment and performance when due of all liabilities, obligations or indebtedness
owing by Pledgor to Secured Party under the Amended Loan Agreement, the Related
Documents and all of Borrower's other obligations to Secured Party of any nature
now or in the future owing from Borrower to Secured Party (collectively, the
"Obligations"), Pledgor pledges and grants to Secured Party a continuing
security interest in, and lien on, all of Pledgor's right, title and interest in
and to the common stock and the preferred stock of the Origen Subsidiaries
(collectively, the "Shares"), together with all certificates, options, warrants
or other distributions or rights issued as an addition to, in substitution or in
exchange for, or on account of, the Shares, and all proceeds of the foregoing,
including, without limitation, any and all dividends, cash, instruments and
other property from time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed
in respect of, or in exchange for, any of the above (collectively, the "Pledged
Stock").
<PAGE>
      2. DELIVERY OF CERTIFICATES. Concurrent with the execution and delivery of
this Agreement, Secured Party has retained possession of the stock certificates
evidencing the Shares (the "Certificates"). The Certificates have been retained
by Secured Party in order to perfect the pledge established hereunder and this
Agreement shall be interpreted so as to cause the pledge of the Shares to be
perfected. Secured Party acknowledges that, for all other purposes, Pledgor is
the lawful and beneficial owner of the Shares. Secured Party shall hold the
Certificates in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

      3. FUTURE RECEIPTS. If Pledgor receives or becomes entitled to receive
any:

            (a) stock certificate(s) issued in respect of the Pledged Stock,
      including, without limitation, any certificate representing a stock
      dividend or payable in respect of the Pledged Stock or issued in
      connection with any increase or reduction of capital, reclassification,
      merger, consolidation, sale of assets, combination of shares, stock split,
      spin-off or split-off;

            (b) option, warrant or right, whether issued as an addition to, in
      substitution or in exchange for, or on account of, any of the Pledged
      Stock; or

            (c) dividends or distributions on the Pledged Stock payable other
      than in cash, including securities issued by other than Secured Party or
      the Company;

Pledgor shall accept the same as Secured Party's agent, in trust for Secured
Party, and shall deliver same to Secured Party, in the exact form received with,
as applicable, Pledgor's endorsement when necessary or appropriate stock powers
duly executed in blank. Any property received by Secured Party hereunder shall
be held by Secured Party pursuant to the terms of this Agreement as additional
security for the Obligations.

      4. CASH DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS. So long as no Event of Default has
occurred and is continuing under the Amended Loan Agreement or the Related
Documents (an "Event of Default"), Pledgor may receive for its own use all cash
dividends and distributions on the Pledged Stock.

      5. VOTING AND OTHER RIGHTS. So long as no Event of Default has occurred
and is continuing, Pledgor may exercise any and all voting and other consensual
rights with respect to the Pledged Stock for any purpose not inconsistent with
the terms of this Agreement.

      6. SECURED PARTY'S DUTIES. Subject to applicable law, Secured Party shall
have no duty with respect to the Pledged Stock beyond the exercise of reasonable
care to assume the safe custody of the Pledged Stock while held hereunder.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Secured Party shall have no
obligation to take any steps to preserve rights in the Pledged Stock against any
other parties or to exercise any rights represented thereby; provided, however,
that Secured Party may, at its option, do so and Pledgor shall reimburse the
Secured Party for all expenses incurred in connection therewith.

      7. COVENANTS AND WARRANTS OF PLEDGOR. Pledgor covenants that, until the
Obligations have been satisfied in full, Pledgor will not sell, convey or
otherwise dispose of any of the Pledged Stock or any interest therein, or
create, incur, or permit to exist any pledge, mortgage, lien, charge,
encumbrance or any security interest whatsoever in or with respect to any of the
Pledged Stock except for that created hereby. Pledgor warrants, and will at the
Pledgor's expense defend, the Secured Party's right, title and security interest
in and to the Pledged Stock against the claims of any person.

      8. EVENT OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES. Upon the occurrence of an Event of
Default, the Secured Party, in its discretion, shall have the right to exercise
each and all of the following


                                      - 2 -
<PAGE>
remedies (which remedies are cumulative and are in addition to, and not
exclusive of, any rights or remedies provided by law, including, without
limitation, the rights and remedies of a secured party under the Michigan
Uniform Commercial Code):

            (a) Cash Dividends. All cash dividends and distributions on the
            Pledged Stock shall be paid to the Secured Party. In the event
            Pledgor shall receive any such cash dividends or distributions,
            Pledgor shall hold same as Secured Party's agent, in trust for
            Secured Party, and shall deliver same to Secured Party in the exact
            form received with the Pledgor's endorsement when necessary.

            (b) Voting Rights. Secured Party, at its option, may vote the
            Pledged Stock in its discretion. Pledgor hereby grants to Secured
            Party or its nominee an irrevocable proxy to exercise all voting and
            other rights and privileges relating to the Pledged Stock, which
            proxy shall be effective immediately upon the occurrence of an Event
            of Default and written notice to Pledgor of Secured Party's election
            to exercise such proxy, and shall be coupled with an interest. After
            the occurrence of an Event of Default and upon request of Secured
            Party, Pledgor agrees to deliver to Secured Party such further
            evidence of such irrevocable proxy to vote the Pledged Stock as
            Secured Party may request. Any or all of the Pledge Stock held by
            Secured Party hereunder may at any time be registered in the name of
            Secured Party or its nominee, and upon Secured Party's request,
            Pledgor will cause the issuer of the Pledged Stock to effect such
            registration. Pledgor hereby appoints Secured Party as its
            attorney-in-fact to arrange for the transfer of the Pledged Stock to
            the name of Secured Party or its nominee and all acts of Secured
            Party as attorney-in-fact are hereby ratified and confirmed and such
            power is coupled with an interest and is irrevocable until the
            Obligations are paid in full. Secured Party may exercise all rights
            and privileges herein granted with respect to the Pledged Stock
            without liability and Secured Party shall have no duty to exercise
            any of the aforesaid rights or privileges and shall not be
            responsible for any failure to do so or delay in so doing.

            (c) Disposition of Pledged Stock. Secured Party may, without demand
            of performance or other demand, advertisement or notice of any kind
            (except the notice specified below of time and place of public or
            private sale) to Pledgor or any other person realize upon the
            Pledged Stock or any part thereof, and may sell or otherwise dispose
            of and deliver the Pledged Stock or any part thereof or interest
            therein, in one or more parcels at public or private sale or sales,
            at any exchange, broker's board or at the Secured Party's offices or
            elsewhere, at such prices and on such terms (including, without
            limitation, a requirement that any purchaser purchase the Pledged
            Stock for investment and without any intention to make a
            distribution thereof) as they may deem best, for cash or on credit,
            or for future delivery without assumption of any credit risk, with
            the right to Secured Party or any purchaser to purchase upon any
            such sale the whole or any part of the Pledged Stock free of any
            right or equity of redemption in Pledgor, which right or equity is
            hereby expressly waived and released. Secured Party need not give
            more than five (5) days notice of the time and place of any public
            sale or of the time after which a private sale may take place, which
            notice Pledgor hereby deems reasonable.

            (d) Application of Proceeds. Any cash dividend or distribution
            received by Secured Party and the proceeds of any disposition of the
            Pledged Stock by Secured Party shall be applied as follows:

                        (i) First, to the costs and expenses incurred in
                  connection with enforcing this Agreement or incidental thereto
                  or to the care or safekeeping


                                     - 3 -
<PAGE>
                  of any of the Pledged Stock or in any way relating to the
                  rights of Secured Party, including reasonable attorneys' fees
                  and legal expenses;

                        (ii) Second, to the satisfaction of the Obligations;

                        (iii) Third, to the payment of any other amounts
                  required by applicable law (including, without limitation, the
                  Michigan Uniform Commercial Code); and

                        (iv) Fourth, to Pledgor to the extent of any surplus
                  proceeds.

      9. FURTHER ASSURANCES. Pledgor shall, at any time and from time to time,
upon the written request of Secured Party, execute and deliver such further
documents and do such further acts and things as Secured Party may reasonably
request to effect the purposes of this Agreement.

      10. TERMINATION. Upon the satisfaction in full of the Obligations and the
payment of all additional costs and expenses of Secured Party hereunder, this
Agreement shall terminate and Secured Party shall deliver, or cause to be
delivered, to Pledgor the Certificates necessary to transfer title to the Shares
to Pledgor.

      11. WITHHOLDING TAXES. Pledgor shall pay all withholding taxes on the
Shares, and Pledgor hereby indemnifies Secured Party, its General Partner, and
their officers, directors, agents and representatives from and against any and
all liability associated with the withholding taxes on the Shares.

      12. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

            (a) This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and enforced
in accordance with, the laws of the State of Michigan.

            (b) All of the terms contained herein shall survive the consummation
of the transactions contemplated herein, and shall be binding upon and inure to
the benefit of and be enforceable by and against, the parties and their
respective successors, assigns, heirs at law, legal representatives and estates.

            (c) This Agreement and any other documents executed in connection
herewith together constitute the full and entire understanding and agreement
among the parties with respect to the transactions herein contemplated, and
shall supersede all prior understandings or agreements relating thereto, whether
written or oral, all of which are declared to be null and void and of no further
force or effect.

            (d) This Agreement may only be amended or modified, and any of the
terms, conditions, covenants, representations or warranties contained herein may
only be waived, by a written instrument duly executed by the parties.

            (e) The paragraph headings in this Agreement are for convenience of
reference only and are not to be considered in construing this Agreement. This
Agreement may be executed in counterparts and all counterparts, when taken
together, shall constitute but one and the same agreement. Facsimile copies of
signatures to this Agreement shall be deemed to be originals, and the parties
may rely upon such facsimile copies to the same extent as the originals.

                            [signature page attached]


                                     - 4 -
<PAGE>
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amended and Restated
Stock Pledge Agreement as of the day and year above written.


                                     PLEDGOR:

                                     ORIGEN FINANCIAL, INC., a Virginia
                                     corporation

                                     By: /s/ Ronald Klein
                                         ---------------------------------------

                                     Its:  CEO
                                          --------------------------------------


                                     SECURED PARTY:

                                     SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED
                                     PARTNERSHIP, A MICHIGAN LIMITED PARTNERSHIP

                                     By:  Sun Communities, Inc., a Maryland
                                          corporation
                                     Its: General Partner

                                          By:  /s/ Gary A. Shiffman
                                               ---------------------------------

                                          Its: CEO
                                               ---------------------------------




                                     - 5 -

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.55
<SEQUENCE>14
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-55.txt
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED AND RESTATED LIMITED COMPANY INTEREST
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.55

                              AMENDED AND RESTATED
                       LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY INTEREST
                          SECURITY AND PLEDGE AGREEMENT

THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY INTEREST SECURITY AND PLEDGE
AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made as of February 1, 2002 by ORIGEN FINANCIAL,
INC., a Virginia corporation ("Pledgor"), in favor of SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING
LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited partnership (the "Secured Party").

                                R E C I T A L S:

      A. Pledgor currently owns 100% of the membership interests in Origen
Special Purpose II, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (the
"Company").

      B. The Secured Party had previously made available to Pledgor a line of
credit up to the amount of $12,500,000 (the "Original Loan"), pursuant to the
terms and conditions of that certain Subordinated Loan Agreement dated December
18, 2001, as amended, between Pledgor and the Secured Party (the "Original Loan
Agreement") and related documents.

      C. To secure the prompt satisfaction by Pledgor of all of its obligations
to the Secured Party under the Original Loan Agreement and related documents,
Pledgor executed and delivered to Secured Party a Limited Liability Company
Interest Security and Pledge Agreement dated December 18, 2001 (the "Original
Pledge Agreement").

      D. The Secured Party, Pledgor, and Origen Financial, L.L.C., a Delaware
limited liability company ("Origen LLC") have entered into an Amended and
Restated Subordinated Loan Agreement dated February 1, 2002 (as amended from
time to time, the "Amended Loan Agreement") under which Secured Party has agreed
to increase the line of credit under the Original Loan up to the amount of
$17,500,000 (the "Amended Loan") as evidenced by an Amended and Restated
Promissory Note dated February 1, 2002 (as amended from time to time, "Amended
Note"), and pursuant to the terms of the Related Documents (as defined in the
Amended Loan Agreement).

      E. To secure the prompt satisfaction by Pledgor of all of its obligations
to the Secured Party under the Amended Loan and all other obligations of Pledgor
to the Secured Party, Pledgor, together with Secured Party, desires to amend and
restate the Original Pledge Agreement in accordance with the terms and
conditions of this Agreement.

      NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:

      1. GRANT OF SECURITY INTEREST. As collateral security for the prompt and
complete payment and performance when due (whether at the stated maturity, by
acceleration or otherwise) of all liabilities, obligations and indebtedness owed
by Pledgor to the Secured Party under the Amended Loan Agreement and the Amended
Note and all other obligations of Pledgor to the Secured Party (collectively,
the "Obligations"), Pledgor grants to the Secured Party a first security
<PAGE>
interest in and to Pledgor's right, title and interest as a member (the
"Membership Interest") in the Company, including, without limitation, any and
all moneys or other property payable or to become payable to Pledgor or to which
Pledgor now or in the future may be entitled, in its capacity as a member in the
Company, including, without limitation, by way of distribution, return of
capital or otherwise in respect of the Membership Interest, and, to the extent
not otherwise included, all "proceeds" of the Membership Interest as such term
is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code (the "Code") from time to time in
effect in the State of Michigan (collectively, the "Collateral").

      2. DISTRIBUTIONS. So long as no default has occurred and is continuing
under the Amended Loan Agreement or the Related Documents (an "Event of
Default"), Pledgor shall be entitled to receive for its own use all
distributions with respect to the Membership Interest. If an Event of Default
has occurred and is continuing, Pledgor shall not be entitled to receive or
retain other distributions paid in respect of the Membership Interest, whether
in redemption of, or in exchange for the Membership Interest, or whether in
connection with a reduction of capital, capital surplus or paid-in surplus or
the Membership Interest or otherwise, other than for the payment of personal
taxes of the members of Company associated with their investment in Company, and
any and all such dividends or distributions shall be forthwith delivered to the
Secured Party to hold as Collateral and shall, if received by Pledgor, be
received in trust for delivery to the Secured Party, be segregated from the
other property or accounts of Pledgor, and be forthwith delivered to the Secured
Party as Collateral in the same form as so received (with any necessary
endorsements), with such Proceeds to be applied by the Secured Party to reduce
the Obligations.

      3. REGISTRATION OF PLEDGE. Concurrently with the execution of this
Agreement, Pledgor has sent to the Company written instructions in the form of
Exhibit A, and has obtained from the Company an executed acknowledgment and
consent in the form of Exhibit A.

      4. VOTING RIGHTS. So long as no Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing, Pledgor may exercise all voting and membership rights with respect
to the Membership Interest; provided, however, that no vote will be cast or
membership right exercised or other action taken which would be inconsistent
with or result in a breach of any provision of the Amended Loan Agreement, the
Related Documents, or this Agreement.

      5. EVENT OF DEFAULT. If an Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing, the Secured Party may direct the Company to register the Membership
Interest in the name of the Secured Party or its nominee, and the Secured Party
or its nominee may thereafter receive all distributions with respect to, and
exercise all voting, membership and other rights pertaining to, the Membership
Interest as if it were the absolute owner of the Membership Interest.

      6. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF PLEDGOR. Pledgor represents and
warrants to the Secured Party that (a) Pledgor is the record and beneficial
owner of, and has good and legal title to, the Membership Interest, free of any
and all liens or options in favor of, or claims of, any other person, except the
lien created by this Agreement, and (b) Pledgor has the legal right to execute
and deliver, to perform its obligations under, and to grant the security
interest in the Collateral pursuant to, this Agreement.

      7. ASSIGNMENT; PLEDGE; AMENDMENT. Without the prior written consent of the
Secured Party, Pledgor will not (i) sell, assign, transfer, exchange or
otherwise dispose of, or grant


                                     - 2 -
<PAGE>
any option with respect to, the Collateral; (ii) create or permit to exist any
lien or option in favor of, or any claim of, any person with respect to any of
the Collateral, except, in either case, for the lien created by this Agreement;
or (iii) amend or modify the Company's Operating Agreement dated December 18,
2001 (the "Operating Agreement"), or enter into any agreement or arrangement
with the Company or its members which amends or modifies the rights and
obligations of the Company and its members as set forth in the Operating
Agreement. Pledgor will defend the right, title and interest of the Secured
Party in and to the Collateral against the claims and demands of all other
persons.

      8. FURTHER ASSURANCES. At any time and from time to time, upon the written
request of the Secured Party, Pledgor will promptly execute and deliver such
further instruments and documents and take such further actions as the Secured
Party may reasonably request for the purposes of obtaining or preserving the
security interest created by this Agreement, including, without limitation, the
filing of any financing or continuation statements under the Code. Pledgor
authorizes the Secured Party to file any such financing or continuation
statement without the signature of Pledgor to the extent permitted by applicable
law.

      9. REMEDIES. If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the
Secured Party may exercise, in addition to all rights and remedies granted in
the Amended Loan Agreement, the Related Documents, and this Agreement, all
rights and remedies of a secured party under the Code. The rights and remedies
of the Secured Party are cumulative, may be exercised singly or concurrently,
and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.

      10. ATTORNEY-IN-FACT. Pledgor irrevocably constitutes and appoints the
Secured Party, or its representative, with full power of substitution, as its
true and lawful attorney-in-fact with full irrevocable power and authority in
the place and stead of Pledgor, and in the name of Pledgor or in the Secured
Party's name, after an Event of Default has occurred and for so long as it is
continuing, for the purpose of carrying out the terms of this Agreement.
Anything to the contrary contained herein notwithstanding, the Secured Party may
not exercise the rights granted to them in this Section 10 unless the Pledgor
has been provided with prior written notice of such exercise. The powers
conferred on the Secured Party are solely to protect its interests in the
Collateral and will not impose any duty upon the Secured Party to exercise any
such powers. The Secured Party will be accountable only for amounts that it
actually receives as a result of the exercise of such powers, and neither the
Secured Party, nor its General Partner, or any of their officers, directors,
employees or agents will be responsible to Pledgor or to the Company for any act
or failure to act.

      11. LIMITATION ON DUTIES REGARDING COLLATERAL. The Secured Party's sole
duty with respect to the custody, safekeeping and physical preservation of the
Collateral in its possession, under the Code or otherwise, will be to deal with
it in the same manner as the Secured Party deals with similar securities and
property for its own account. Neither the Secured Party, its General Partner,
nor any of their directors, officers, employees or agents will be liable for
failure to demand, collect or realize upon any of the Collateral or for any
delay in doing so or, except as provided by applicable law, will be under any
obligation to sell or otherwise dispose of any Collateral upon the request of
Pledgor or otherwise.

      12. NO WAIVER. The Secured Party will not by any act, delay, omission or
otherwise be deemed to have waived any right or remedy under this Agreement or
to have acquiesced in any


                                     - 3 -
<PAGE>
Event of Default or in any breach of any of the terms and conditions of this
Agreement except by a written instrument executed by the Secured Party. No
single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege under this Agreement
will preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other
right, power or privilege. A waiver by the Secured Party of any right or remedy
under this Agreement on any one occasion will not be construed as a bar to any
right or remedy which the Secured Party would otherwise have on any future
occasion.

      13. AMENDMENTS. The terms and provisions of this Agreement may not be
waived or modified except by a written instrument executed by Pledgor and the
Secured Party.

      14. BENEFIT AND BINDING EFFECT. This Agreement will be binding upon the
successors and permitted assigns of Pledgor and will inure to the benefit of the
Secured Party and its successors and assigns.

      15. COUNTERPARTS; REPRODUCTIONS. This Agreement may be executed in
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which
together shall constitute one instrument. Facsimile copies of signatures to this
Agreement shall be deemed to be originals, and the parties may rely upon such
facsimile copies to the same extent as the originals..

      16. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the laws of the State of Michigan.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Pledgor and the Secured Party have executed this
Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Interest Security and Pledge
Agreement as of the date first above written.


                                  PLEDGOR:

                                  ORIGEN FINANCIAL, INC., a Virginia corporation

                                  By: /s/ Ronald Klein
                                      ---------------------------------------

                                  Its: CEO
                                       --------------------------------------


                                  SECURED PARTY:

                                  SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED
                                  PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited partnership

                                  By:  Sun Communities, Inc., a Maryland
                                       corporation
                                  Its: General Partner

                                       By:  /s/ Gary A. Shiffman
                                            ---------------------------------

                                       Its: CEO
                                            ---------------------------------




                                     - 4 -

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.56
<SEQUENCE>15
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-56.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SECURITY AGREEMENT DATED FEBRUARY 1, 2002
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.56

                               SECURITY AGREEMENT

      THIS SECURITY AGREEMENT (as amended from time to time, the "Agreement") is
entered into as of February 1, 2002 by and between ORIGEN FINANCIAL, L.L.C., a
Delaware limited liability company whose address is 260 E. Brown Street, Suite
200, Birmingham, Michigan 48009 ("Borrower") and SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING
LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited partnership whose address is 31700
Middlebelt Road, Suite 145, Farmington Hills, MI 48334 ("Secured Party").

                                    RECITALS:

      A. Borrower, Origen Financial, Inc. ("Origen Inc." and together with
Borrower, the "Origen Companies") and Secured Party entered into an Amended and
Restated Subordinated Loan Agreement dated February 1, 2002 (as amended from
time to time, the "Amended Loan Agreement") under which Secured Party agreed to
make a line of credit available to the Origen Companies for up to $17,500,000
(as amended from time to time, the "Line of Credit"), and the Origen Companies
executed and delivered to Secured Party a Second Amended and Restated Promissory
Note dated February 1, 2002 (as amended from time to time, the "Second Amended
Note") to evidence the Line of Credit.

      B. To secure the payment of all amounts due to Secured Party by Borrower
in connection with the Line of Credit and pursuant to terms of the Amended Loan
Agreement and the Second Amended Note, to secure all of Borrower's other
obligations to Secured Party of any nature now or in the future owing from the
Borrower to Secured Party (hereinafter collectively referred to as the
"Obligations"), Borrower has agreed to execute this Agreement.

      THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:

      1. DEFINITIONS. Unless otherwise defined herein, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:

      (a) "Accounts" means all "accounts", as such term is defined in Section
      9-102(2) of the Code, in which Borrower now or hereafter has any right,
      title or interest.

      (b) "Books" means all books, records and correspondence relating to the
      Collateral (as defined herein).

      (c) "Chattel Paper" means any and all "chattel paper", as such term is
      defined in Section 9-102(11) of the Code, in which Borrower now or
      hereafter has any right, title or interest.

      (d) "Code" means the Uniform Commercial Code as the same may from time to
      time be in effect in the State of Michigan.

      (e) "Contracts" means any and all contracts, instruments, undertakings,
      documents, leases or other agreements in or under which Borrower may now
      or hereafter has any right, title or interest and which pertain to the
      purchase, lease, sale or other disposition by Borrower of
<PAGE>
      any Inventory, Equipment, Fixtures, real property or any interest in real
      property, as any of the same may from time to time be amended,
      supplemented or otherwise modified.

      (f) "Current Accounts" means an Account that arises from a bona fide
      outright sale of goods by Borrower, or from services performed by Borrower
      that is not subject to any claim of reduction, counterclaim, set-off,
      allowances, adjustments, or the like, and is not outstanding more than 60
      days from the date of its invoice.

      (g) "Documents" means any and all "documents" and "instruments", as such
      terms are defined in Section 9-102(30) and (47) of the Code, in which
      Borrower now or hereafter has any right, title or interest.

      (h) "Equipment" means all "equipment", as such term is defined in Section
      9-102(33) of the Code, in which Borrower now or hereafter has any right,
      title or interest.

      (i) "Fixtures" means, to the extent not otherwise included as Equipment,
      all machinery, apparatus, equipment, fittings, fixtures, furniture and
      furnishings in which Borrower now or hereafter has any right, title or
      interest located upon or affixed to or which becomes affixed to any real
      property owned or leased by Borrower, or any part thereof, and used or
      usable in connection with any future occupancy or use of such premises,
      including replacements and additions thereto.

      (j) "General Intangibles" means all "general intangibles", as such term is
      defined in Section 9-102(42) of the Code, in which Borrower now or
      hereafter has any right, title or interest. General Intangibles shall also
      include all equity interests of Borrower in other entities, including but
      not limited to membership interest in Origen Insurance Agency, L.L.C.,
      Origen Manufactured Home Financial, L.L.C., Origen Special Purpose, L.L.C.
      and Origen Financial of South Dakota, L.L.C.

      (k) "Inventory" means all "inventory", as such term is defined in Section
      9-102(48) of the Code, in which Borrower now or hereafter has any right,
      title or interest.

      (l) "Loans" means any loan originated by or acquired by Borrower, whether
      an original loan, an additional loan or a substitution for an existing
      loan including all indebtedness of any Borrower with respect to such loans
      or any collateral pledge with respect to such loans including but not
      limited to any manufactured homes, together with all other collateral
      provided as security for such loans; servicing agreements, backup
      servicing agreements, servicing records, insurance, guarantees,
      indemnitees, and warranties and proceeds thereof, financing statements and
      other agreements or arrangements of whatever character from time to time
      relating to the loans, income if any from the loans, all hedges, all
      insured closing letters, all escrow instructions covering all or any of
      the loans, all collections from such loans, all blocked accounts and all
      amounts and deposits therein, all collection accounts and escrow accounts
      relating to any loan, all dealer financing agreements, all loan
      agreements, all loan documents, all consignment agreements, sale
      contracts, security agreements, the right to payment of interest or
      finance charges and collateral securing such obligations, and any other
      rights and other assets relating to such loans or any interest in the
      loans, whether constituting real or personal property, accounts, chattel
      paper, equipment, goods,


                                       2
<PAGE>
      instruments, general intangibles, inventory or proceeds, or securities
      backed by or representing an interest in such loans and any and all
      replacements, substitutions, distributions on or proceeds of any and all
      of the foregoing.

      (m) "Proceeds" means all "proceeds", as such term is defined in Section
      9-102(64) of the Code.

      2. SECURITY INTEREST. Borrower hereby grants to Secured Party a continuing
security interest in all of its right, title and interest in, to and under all
Accounts, Current Accounts, Books, Chattel Paper, Contracts, Documents,
Equipment, Fixtures, General Intangibles, Inventory, Loans and Proceeds
(collectively, the "Collateral"). This grant is made for the purpose of securing
the Obligations owing by Borrower to Secured Party. Borrower promises punctually
to pay the Obligations when it is so required in accordance with the obligations
and any note or agreement evidencing the Obligations, including the Second
Amended Note.

      3. SUBORDINATION. The security interests in the Collateral granted to
Secured Party may be subordinate to and subject to liens or security interests
which the holders of Senior Debt (as defined in the Amended Loan Agreement) may
now or hereafter have in the Collateral as a result of any indebtedness of
Borrower comprising the Senior Debt. If subordinated, such subordination shall
be evidenced within the provisions of the Loan Agreement, and, if required by
the holders of the Senior Debt, in a separate written subordination agreement
between the Secured Party and the holders of the Senior Debt.

      4. WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS. Borrower represents, warrants and covenants
to Secured Party as follows:

            (a) Except for the security interests granted hereby and any other
      security interests authorized by this Agreement or any other agreement
      between Borrower and Secured Party, Borrower is, or, as to Collateral to
      be acquired by Borrower after the date hereof, will be, the owner of the
      Collateral free from any adverse lien, security interest or encumbrance
      other than those identified on the attached EXHIBIT A; and Borrower agrees
      to defend the Collateral and proceeds thereof against any claims and
      demands of all persons at any time claiming the same or any interest
      therein.

            (b) The security interests hereby created are valid and Borrower has
      the authority and right to subject the Collateral to the security
      interests hereby created.

            (c) All financial statements, certificates and other information
      concerning the financial condition of Borrower, and proceeds hereafter
      furnished by Borrower to Secured Party shall be in all respects true and
      correct at the time the same are provided and shall be deemed, for all
      purposes, to have been furnished by Borrower to Secured Party for the
      purpose of obtaining credit or an extension of credit.

            (d) This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by a duly
      authorized officer of Borrower and constitutes the legal, valid and
      binding obligation of Borrower, enforceable in accordance with its terms.


                                       3
<PAGE>
            (e) Borrower does not conduct Borrower's business under any other
      name than that given above, and agrees not to change or reorganize the
      business entity under which it does business except upon the Secured
      Party's prior written approval.

            (f) There are no actions or proceedings either threatened or pending
      against Borrower which might result in any material adverse change in
      Borrower's financial condition or materially affect any of Borrower's
      assets.

All of Borrower's warranties contained in this Section 4 shall be continuing
warranties until Borrower has no remaining Obligations to Secured Party.

      5. LOSS OR DEPRECIATION OF COLLATERAL. Borrower shall immediately notify
Secured Party of any event causing a material loss or depreciation in value of
Collateral and the amount of such loss or depreciation.

      6. RECORDS, INSPECTION, AUDIT AND COVENANT FOR FURTHER ASSURANCES.

            (a) At the request of Secured Party, Borrower will advise Secured
      Party of the places where its books of Accounts and records, including all
      records of the Collateral and the dispositions made thereof by Borrower
      and of its Accounts and all collections thereon, are kept and maintained.

            (b) Borrower will keep and maintain such books and records with
      respect to the Collateral as Secured Party may from time to time
      reasonably prescribe for the purpose of enabling Secured Party to audit
      the same.

            (c) Borrower shall at all reasonable times and from time to time
      allow Secured Party, by or through any of its agents, attorneys or
      accountants, to examine or inspect the Collateral wherever located and to
      examine, inspect and make extracts from Borrower's books and records.
      Borrower shall do, make, execute and deliver all such additional and
      further acts, things, deeds, assurances and instruments as Secured Party
      may reasonably require, to assure to Secured Party its rights hereunder.

      7. PRESERVATION AND DISPOSITION OF THE COLLATERAL AND PROCEEDS.

            (a) Borrower will keep the Collateral in good condition and will not
      waste or destroy any of the same. Borrower will not use the Collateral in
      violation of any statute or ordinance.

            (b) Borrower will pay promptly when due all taxes, assessments and
      governmental charges upon or against the Collateral before the same become
      delinquent and before penalties accrue thereon.

            (c) At its option, Secured Party may discharge taxes, liens, other
      encumbrances or security interests not otherwise authorized by this
      Agreement or any other agreement between Borrower and Secured Party at any
      time levied or placed on the Collateral and may pay for the maintenance
      and preservation of the Collateral. Borrower agrees to reimburse


                                       4
<PAGE>
      Secured Party, on demand, for any payment made or any expense incurred by
      Secured Party pursuant to the foregoing authorization.

            (d) Borrower, at its own expense, shall keep all of the Collateral
      fully insured against loss or damage by fire, theft, explosion, business
      interruption, and all other risks, in such amounts, with such companies,
      under such policies, and in such form as shall be satisfactory to Secured
      Party.

            (e) Borrower, unless in default, may use, consume and sell Inventory
      in carrying on its business in the ordinary course; but a sale in the
      ordinary course of business shall not include any transfer or sale in
      satisfaction, partial or complete, of a debt owed by Borrower. Borrower
      shall not, without the prior written consent of Secured Party, otherwise
      sell or dispose of the Collateral or any portion thereof.

      8. COLLECTIONS. In the absence of contrary instructions from Secured
Party, Borrower at its own expense shall take all necessary action promptly to
collect its Accounts and Loans. Upon an Event of Default, as such term is
defined in the Loan Agreement, and when and to the extent required by Secured
Party, Borrower shall (a) pay or deliver all cash proceeds of Accounts and Loans
to Secured Party immediately upon receipt in the exact form received without
commingling with other property, or (b) immediately upon receipt, deposit all
such proceeds in a collateral collection account established and controlled by
Secured Party at a financial institution of its choosing, and/or (c) notify
account borrowers that their accounts, Loans and/or contract rights (to the
extent included in Accounts) have been assigned to Secured Party and shall be
paid directly to Secured Party. At its option, at any time after an Event of
Default and at Borrower's expense, Secured Party may, in addition to its other
rights hereunder, sue, compromise on terms it considers proper, endorse, sell or
otherwise deal with the Accounts and Loans and proceeds of any Collateral either
in its own name or that of Borrower. After deduction of any expenses, including,
without limitation, attorneys fees and expenses, to the extent permitted under
applicable law, all proceeds received by Secured Party may be applied by Secured
Party to payment of any Obligations, if due, whether at maturity, by
acceleration or otherwise, in such order as Secured Party may choose. At any
time and from time to time, Secured Party may make like application of the
balance of the collateral collection account or it may release all or a part of
the balance to Borrower.

      9. ASSIGNMENTS, INVOICES AND INFORMATION. At Secured Party's request,
Borrower shall:

            (a) give Secured Party assignments in the form specified by Secured
      Party of specific Accounts and Loans as the Accounts and Loans arise;

            (b) furnish Secured Party with the original or a copy of invoices,
      and contracts applicable to each Account and Loan noting thereon, if
      Secured Party so requires, Secured Party's assignment and any additional
      statement required; and/or

            (c) notify Secured Party immediately if any Account or Loan arises
      out of a contract with the United States or any of its agencies and take
      any action required by Secured Party with reference to the Federal
      Assignment of Claims Act.


                                       5
<PAGE>
      10. NOTATION OF ASSIGNMENT, INFORMATION AND PAYMENT OF ACCOUNTS. When and
to the extent required by Secured Party, Borrower shall:

            (a) mark records of Accounts, Loans and contract rights (to the
      extent included in Accounts) in a manner satisfactory to Secured Party to
      show Secured Party's interest therein;

            (b) furnish to Secured Party satisfactory evidence of performance of
      contracts and Loans; and

            (c) give Secured Party lists of account borrowers (showing names,
      addresses and amounts owing) and such other data concerning its Accounts
      and Loans as Secured Party may from time to time specify.

      11. FINANCING STATEMENTS; PERFECTION.

            (a) Borrower irrevocably authorizes Secured Party to prepare and
      file any financing statement, amendments, continuations, and all other
      documents, as Secured Party deems necessary to perfect and maintain the
      security interest and lien granted herein. This authorization shall remain
      in full force and effect and may be relied on by Secured Party as long as
      any Obligations remain outstanding.

            (b) Borrower agrees to promptly execute and deliver to Secured
      Party, concurrently with this Agreement and at any time thereafter, at
      Secured Party's request, all financing statements, assignments, promissory
      notes, certificates of title, affidavits, reports, notices, schedules of
      Accounts, designations of Inventory, letters of authority, stock
      certificates and any and all other documents and agreements, in form
      satisfactory to Secured Party, to perfect and maintain its security
      interest in the Collateral.

            (c) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or any other
      agreement between Borrower and Secured Party, without the prior written
      consent of Secured Party, Borrower will not allow or suffer any adverse
      financing statement covering the Collateral, or any portion thereof, to be
      on file in any public office.

      12. RIGHTS AND REMEDIES ON DEFAULT. Upon the occurrence of any Event of
Default, and at any time thereafter, Secured Party shall have the rights and
remedies of a secured party under the Code in addition to the rights and
remedies provided herein or in any other instrument or agreement executed by
Borrower.

      Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Borrower expressly
agrees that in any such event Secured Party, without demand of performance or
other demand, advertisement or notice of any kind (except the notice specified
below of time and place of public or private sale) to or upon Borrower or any
other person (all and each of which demands, advertisements and/or notices are
hereby expressly waived), may forthwith collect, receive, appropriate and
realize upon the Collateral, or any part thereof, and/or may forthwith sell,
lease, assign, give an option or options to purchase or sell or otherwise
dispose of and deliver the Collateral (or contract to do so), or any part


                                       6
<PAGE>
thereof, in one or more parcels at public or private sale or sales, at any
exchange broker's board or at any of Secured Party's offices or elsewhere at
such prices as Secured Party may deem best, for cash or on credit or for future
delivery without assumption of any credit risk. Secured Party shall have the
right upon any such public sale or sales and, to the extent permitted by law,
upon any such private sale or sales, to purchase the whole or any part of the
Collateral so sold, free of any right of equity of redemption, which equity of
redemption Borrower hereby releases. Secured Party may require Borrower to
assemble the Collateral and proceeds and make them available to Secured Party at
a place to be designated by Secured Party which is reasonably convenient to all
parties.

      Secured Party shall apply the net proceeds of any such collection,
recovery, receipt, appropriation, realization or sale after deducting all
reasonable costs and expenses of every kind incurred therein or incidental to
the care, safe-keeping or otherwise of any or all of the Collateral or in any
way relating to the rights of Secured Party hereunder, including, without
limitation, reasonable attorneys fees and expenses, to the payment in whole or
in part of the Obligations, in such order as Secured Party may elect, Borrower
remaining liable for any deficiency remaining unpaid after such application, and
only after so paying over such net proceeds and after the payment by Secured
Party of any other amount required by any provision of law, need Secured Party
account for the surplus, if any, to Borrower. To the extent permitted by
applicable law, Borrower waives all claims, damages and demands against Secured
Party arising out of the repossession, retention or sale of the Collateral.
Unless the Collateral is perishable or threatens to decline speedily in value or
is of a type customarily sold on a recognized market, Secured Party will give
Borrower reasonable notice of the time and place of any public sale thereof or
of the time after which any private sale or other intended disposition thereof
is to be made. The requirement of reasonable notice shall be met if such notice
is mailed, postage prepaid, to the address of Borrower, at least ten (10) days
before the time of the sale or disposition. Borrower shall pay to Secured Party
on demand any and all expenses, including, without limitation, reasonable
attorneys fees and expenses, to the extent permitted under applicable law,
incurred or paid by Secured Party in protecting or enforcing the Obligations and
other rights of Secured Party hereunder including its rights to take possession
of Collateral and proceeds thereof.

      13. SECURED PARTY'S APPOINTMENT AS ATTORNEY-IN-FACT. Borrower hereby
irrevocably constitutes and appoints Secured Party, with full power of
substitution, as its true and lawful attorney-in-fact with full power and
authority in the place and stead of Borrower and in the name of Borrower or in
its own name, from time to time in the sole and absolute discretion of Secured
Party, for the purpose of carrying out the terms of this Agreement, to take any
and all appropriate action and to execute any and all documents and instruments,
including without limitation, any financing statements necessary or helpful to
perfect or continue Secured Party's security interest in the Collateral, which
may be necessary or desirable to accomplish the purposes of this Agreement. This
power of attorney being coupled by an interest shall be irrevocable so long as
any Obligations remain unpaid. All acts of any such attorney are ratified and
approved, and except for willful misconduct, he or she will not be liable for
any act or omission or for any error of judgment or mistake of law.

      14. SECURITY NOT CONTINGENT. Secured Party's rights under this Agreement
shall not be contingent upon the exercise or enforcement by Secured Party of any
other rights or remedies he may have against Borrower or others. No election by
Secured Party to proceed in one form of


                                       7
<PAGE>
action or proceeding, or against any party, or on any obligation, shall
constitute a waiver of Secured Party's right to enforce its rights under this
Agreement.

      15. GENERAL. Secured Party shall not be deemed to have waived any of its
rights hereunder or under any other agreement or instrument signed by Borrower
unless such waiver be in writing and signed by Secured Party. No delay or
omission on the part of Secured Party in exercising any right shall operate as a
waiver of such right or any other right. A waiver on any one occasion shall not
be construed as a bar to or waiver of any right or remedy on any future
occasion. All of Secured Party's rights and remedies, whether evidenced hereby
or by any other agreement or instrument, shall be cumulative and may be
exercised singularly or concurrently. Any demand upon or notice to Borrower that
Secured Party may elect to give shall be effective when deposited in the mails
addressed to Borrower at its principal place of business. Demands or notices
addressed to Borrower's address at which Secured Party customarily communicates
with Borrower shall also be effective. This Agreement shall be terminated only
by the filing of a termination statement in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the Code and/or when there are no outstanding Obligations and no
commitments on the part of Borrower to Secured Party under any agreement which
might give rise to any Obligations. Prior to such termination this shall be a
continuing agreement in every respect. This Agreement and all rights and
obligations hereunder including matters of construction, validity and
performance, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Michigan. This
Agreement is intended to take effect when signed by Borrower and delivered to
Secured Party. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which
shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together shall constitute one
instrument. Facsimile copies of signatures to this Agreement shall be deemed to
be originals, and the parties may rely upon such facsimile copies to the same
extent as the originals.

   [Remainder of page intentionally left blank. Signatures on following page.]


                                       8
<PAGE>
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Security Agreement as
of the day and year above written.


                                    "BORROWER"

                                    ORIGEN FINANCIAL, L.L.C., a Delaware limited
                                    liability company

                                    By:  /s/ Ronald Klein
                                         ---------------------------------------

                                    Its:  CEO
                                         ---------------------------------------


                                    "SECURED PARTY"

                                    SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED
                                    PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited partnership

                                    By:  Sun Communities, Inc., a Maryland
                                         corporation
                                    Its: General Partner

                                    By:  /s/ Gary A. Shiffman
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                    Its: CEO
                                         ---------------------------------------




                                       9

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.57
<SEQUENCE>16
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-57.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY INTEREST SECURITY
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.57

                       LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY INTEREST
                          SECURITY AND PLEDGE AGREEMENT

THIS LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY INTEREST SECURITY AND PLEDGE AGREEMENT (as
amended from time to time, the "Agreement") is made as of February 1, 2002 by
ORIGEN FINANCIAL, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company ("Pledgor"), in
favor of SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited
partnership (the "Secured Party").

                                R E C I T A L S:

      A. Pledgor currently owns 100% of the membership interests in Origen
Special Purpose, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company, Origen
Manufactured Home Financial, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company, and
Origen Insurance Agency, L.L.C., a Virginia limited liability company, Origen
Financial of South Dakota, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company
(collectively, the "Subsidiaries").

      B. The Secured Party has agreed to make available to Pledgor and Origen
Financial, Inc. ("Origen Inc." and together with Pledgor, the "Origen
Companies") a line of credit up to the amount of $17,500,000 (the "Loan"),
pursuant to the terms and conditions of that certain Amended and Restated
Subordinated Loan Agreement dated February 1, 2002, among Pledgor, Origen Inc.
and the Secured Party (as amended from time to time, the "Loan Agreement"), and
the Related Documents (as defined in the Loan Agreement).

      C. To secure the prompt satisfaction by Pledgor of all of its obligations
to the Secured Party under the Loan Agreement and the Related Documents, Pledgor
has agreed to execute and deliver this Agreement.

      NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:

      1. GRANT OF SECURITY INTEREST. As collateral security for the prompt and
complete payment and performance when due (whether at the stated maturity, by
acceleration or otherwise) of all liabilities, obligations and indebtedness owed
by Pledgor to the Secured Party under the Loan Agreement and the Related
Documents (collectively, the "Obligations"), Pledgor grants to the Secured Party
a first security interest in and to Pledgor's right, title and interest as a
member (the "Membership Interests") in each of the Subsidiaries, including,
without limitation, any and all moneys or other property payable or to become
payable to Pledgor or to which Pledgor now or in the future may be entitled, in
its capacity as a member in the Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, by
way of distribution, return of capital or otherwise in respect of the Membership
Interests, and, to the extent not otherwise included, all "proceeds" of the
Membership Interests as such term is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code (the
"Code") from time to time in effect in the State of Michigan (collectively, the
"Collateral").

      2. DISTRIBUTIONS. So long as no default has occurred and is continuing
under the Loan Agreement or the Related Documents (an "Event of Default"),
Pledgor shall be entitled to receive for its own use all distributions with
respect to the Membership Interests. If an Event of
<PAGE>
Default has occurred and is continuing, Pledgor shall not be entitled to receive
or retain other distributions paid in respect of the Membership Interests,
whether in redemption of, or in exchange for the Membership Interests, or
whether in connection with a reduction of capital, capital surplus or paid-in
surplus or the Membership Interests or otherwise, other than for the payment of
personal taxes of the members of the Subsidiaries associated with their
investment in Subsidiaries, and any and all such dividends or distributions
shall be forthwith delivered to the Secured Party to hold as Collateral and
shall, if received by Pledgor, be received in trust for delivery to the Secured
Party, be segregated from the other property or accounts of Pledgor, and be
forthwith delivered to the Secured Party as Collateral in the same form as so
received (with any necessary endorsements), with such Proceeds to be applied by
the Secured Party to reduce the Obligations.

      3. REGISTRATION OF PLEDGE. Concurrently with the execution of this
Agreement, Pledgor has sent to each of the Subsidiaries written instructions in
the form of Exhibit A, and has obtained from each of the Subsidiaries an
executed acknowledgment and consent in the form of Exhibit A.

      4. VOTING RIGHTS. So long as no Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing, Pledgor may exercise all voting and membership rights with respect
to the Membership Interests; provided, however, that no vote will be cast or
membership right exercised or other action taken which would be inconsistent
with or result in a breach of any provision of the Loan Agreement, the Related
Documents, or this Agreement.

      5. EVENT OF DEFAULT. If an Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing, the Secured Party may direct the Subsidiaries to register the
Membership Interests in the name of the Secured Party or its nominee, and the
Secured Party or its nominee may thereafter receive all distributions with
respect to, and exercise all voting, membership and other rights pertaining to,
the Membership Interests as if it were the absolute owner of the Membership
Interests.

      6. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF PLEDGOR. Pledgor represents and
warrants to the Secured Party that (a) Pledgor is the record and beneficial
owner of, and has good and legal title to, the Membership Interests, free of any
and all liens or options in favor of, or claims of, any other person, except the
lien created by this Agreement, and (b) Pledgor has the legal right to execute
and deliver, to perform its obligations under, and to grant the security
interest in the Collateral pursuant to, this Agreement.

      7. ASSIGNMENT; PLEDGE; AMENDMENT. Without the prior written consent of the
Secured Party, Pledgor will not (i) sell, assign, transfer, exchange or
otherwise dispose of, or grant any option with respect to, the Collateral; (ii)
create or permit to exist any lien or option in favor of, or any claim of, any
person with respect to any of the Collateral, except, in either case, for the
lien created by this Agreement; or (iii) amend or modify the Origen Special
Purpose, L.L.C. Operating Agreement dated June 15, 2001, the Origen Manufactured
Home Financial, L.L.C. Operating Agreement dated June 15, 2001, the Origen
Insurance Agency, L.L.C. Operating Agreement dated June 15, 2001 or the Origen
Financial of South Dakota L.L.C. Operating Agreement dated December 11, 2001 (as
amended from time to time, collectively, the "Operating Agreements"), or enter
into any agreement or arrangement with any Subsidiary or its respective members
which amends or modifies the rights and obligations of such Subsidiary and its
respective members as set


                                     - 2 -
<PAGE>
forth in such Subsidiary's Operating Agreement. Pledgor will defend the right,
title and interest of the Secured Party in and to the Collateral against the
claims and demands of all other persons.

      8. FURTHER ASSURANCES. At any time and from time to time, upon the written
request of the Secured Party, Pledgor will promptly execute and deliver such
further instruments and documents and take such further actions as the Secured
Party may reasonably request for the purposes of obtaining or preserving the
security interest created by this Agreement, including, without limitation, the
filing of any financing or continuation statements under the Code. Pledgor
authorizes the Secured Party to file any such financing or continuation
statement without the signature of Pledgor to the extent permitted by applicable
law.

      9. REMEDIES. If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the
Secured Party may exercise, in addition to all rights and remedies granted in
the Loan Agreement, the Related Documents, and this Agreement, all rights and
remedies of a secured party under the Code. The rights and remedies of the
Secured Party are cumulative, may be exercised singly or concurrently, and are
not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.

      10. ATTORNEY-IN-FACT. Pledgor irrevocably constitutes and appoints the
Secured Party, or its representative, with full power of substitution, as its
true and lawful attorney-in-fact with full irrevocable power and authority in
the place and stead of Pledgor, and in the name of Pledgor or in the Secured
Party's name, after an Event of Default has occurred and for so long as it is
continuing, for the purpose of carrying out the terms of this Agreement.
Anything to the contrary contained herein notwithstanding, the Secured Party may
not exercise the rights granted to them in this Section 10 unless the Pledgor
has been provided with prior written notice of such exercise. The powers
conferred on the Secured Party are solely to protect its interests in the
Collateral and will not impose any duty upon the Secured Party to exercise any
such powers. The Secured Party will be accountable only for amounts that it
actually receives as a result of the exercise of such powers, and neither the
Secured Party, nor its General Partner, or any of their officers, directors,
employees or agents will be responsible to Pledgor or to the Subsidiaries for
any act or failure to act.

      11. LIMITATION ON DUTIES REGARDING COLLATERAL. The Secured Party's sole
duty with respect to the custody, safekeeping and physical preservation of the
Collateral in its possession, under the Code or otherwise, will be to deal with
it in the same manner as the Secured Party deals with similar securities and
property for its own account. Neither the Secured Party, its General Partner,
nor any of their directors, officers, employees or agents will be liable for
failure to demand, collect or realize upon any of the Collateral or for any
delay in doing so or, except as provided by applicable law, will be under any
obligation to sell or otherwise dispose of any Collateral upon the request of
Pledgor or otherwise.

      12. NO WAIVER. The Secured Party will not by any act, delay, omission or
otherwise be deemed to have waived any right or remedy under this Agreement or
to have acquiesced in any Event of Default or in any breach of any of the terms
and conditions of this Agreement except by a written instrument executed by the
Secured Party. No single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege
under this Agreement will preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the
exercise of any other right, power or privilege. A waiver by the Secured Party
of any right or remedy under this Agreement on any one occasion will not be
construed as a bar to any right or remedy which the


                                     - 3 -
<PAGE>
Secured Party would otherwise have on any future occasion.

      13. AMENDMENTS. The terms and provisions of this Agreement may not be
waived or modified except by a written instrument executed by Pledgor and the
Secured Party.

      14. BENEFIT AND BINDING EFFECT. This Agreement will be binding upon the
successors and permitted assigns of Pledgor and will inure to the benefit of the
Secured Party and its successors and assigns.

      15. COUNTERPARTS; REPRODUCTIONS. This Agreement may be executed in
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which
together shall constitute one instrument. Facsimile copies of signatures to this
Agreement shall be deemed to be originals, and the parties may rely upon such
facsimile copies to the same extent as the originals..

      16. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the laws of the State of Michigan.

                         [signatures on following page]


                                     - 4 -
<PAGE>
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Pledgor and the Secured Party have executed this
Agreement as of the date first above written.


                                   PLEDGOR:

                                   ORIGEN FINANCIAL, L.L.C., a Delaware limited
                                   liability company

                                   By:  /s/ Ronald Klein
                                        --------------------------------------

                                   Its:  CEO
                                        --------------------------------------


                                   SECURED PARTY:

                                   SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED
                                   PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited partnership

                                   By:  Sun Communities, Inc., a Maryland
                                        corporation
                                   Its: General Partner

                                        By:  /s/ Gary A. Shiffman
                                             ---------------------------------

                                        Its: CEO
                                             ---------------------------------




                                     - 5 -

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.58
<SEQUENCE>17
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-58.txt
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED AND RESTATED GUARANTY MADE FEB. 1, 2002
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.58

                          AMENDED AND RESTATED GUARANTY

      THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED GUARANTY (the "Amended Guaranty") is made
February 1, 2002 by Bingham Financial Services Corporation, a Michigan
corporation ("Bingham"), in favor of Sun Communities Operating Limited
Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership ("SCOLP").

                                    RECITALS:

      A. Guarantor has executed and delivered to Lender a Guaranty dated
December 18, 2001, as affirmed by the Affirmation of Guaranty dated January 1,
2002 (collectively, the "Original Guaranty"), pursuant to which Guarantor
guaranteed the payment and performance when due of certain obligations owing
from Origen Financial, Inc. ("Origen Inc.") to SCOLP, including without
limitation under the line of credit loan (the "Line of Credit") evidenced by the
Subordinated Loan Agreement dated December 18, 2001 between Origen Inc. and
Lender, as amended by the First Amendment to Subordinated Loan Agreement dated
January 1, 2002 (collectively, the "Original Loan Agreement") and the Promissory
Note in the original principal amount of $12,500,000 dated December 18, 2001
executed by Origen Inc. in favor of Lender, as amended by the First Amended
Promissory Note dated January 1, 2002 in the original principal amount of
$17,500,000 (collectively, the "Prior Note").

      B. The Line of Credit is secured by the collateral described in the
Amended and Restated Security Agreement dated February 1, 2002 between Origen
Inc. and SCOLP, the Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Interest
Security and Pledge Agreement dated February 1, 2002 between Origen Inc. and
SCOLP, the Amended and Restated Stock Pledge Agreement dated February 1, 2002
between Origen Inc. and SCOLP, and various Uniform Commercial Code financing
statements filed to perfect the security interests granted under the foregoing
agreements (the "Origen Inc. Security Documents").

      C. Origen Inc., Origen Financial, L.L.C. ("Origen LLC" and together with
Origen Inc., the "Borrowers") and Lender have entered into an Amended and
Restated Subordinated Loan Agreement dated February 1, 2002 (the "Amended and
Restated Loan Agreement") and the Borrowers have executed a Second Amended and
Restated Promissory Note dated February 1, 2002 (the "Second Amended Note"),
pursuant to which Lender has agreed to make advances under the Line of Credit,
as amended, to each of the Borrowers.

      D. As further security for the Line of Credit, as amended, Origen LLC has
granted SCOLP a security interest in the collateral described in the Security
Agreement dated February 1, 2002 between Origen LLC and SCOLP and the Limited
Liability Company Interest Security and Pledge Agreement dated February 1, 2002
between Origen LLC and SCOLP (collectively, the "Origen LLC Security Documents"
and together with the Origen Inc. Security Documents, the "Origen Security
Documents").

      E. The Borrowers may from time to time request loans, advances or other
financial accommodations from SCOLP and SCOLP may, in its discretion, honor such
requests in whole or part and thereby either of the Borrowers may from time to
time be indebted to SCOLP, including without limitation, under (i) the Amended
and Restated Loan Agreement; (ii) the
<PAGE>
Second Amended Note; and (iii) the Origen Security Documents (collectively, the
"Origen Loan Documents").

      F. SCOLP is unwilling to make loans, advances or extend other financial
accommodations to or otherwise do business with the Borrowers unless Bingham
continues to unconditionally guarantee payment of all present and future
indebtedness and obligations of each of the Borrowers to SCOLP and as a
condition of amending the Line of Credit, Lender has required that Guarantor
execute and deliver this Amended Guaranty.

      G. Bingham is the sole shareholder of Origen Inc. and a member of Origen
LLC and will directly benefit from SCOLP's making of loans, advances or
extending other financial accommodations to or otherwise doing business with the
Borrowers.

      H. Bingham desires to amend and restate the original Guaranty in its
entirety in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this Amended
Guaranty.

      NOW, THEREFORE, in order to induce SCOLP to make loans, advances or extend
other financial accommodations to and otherwise do business with the Borrowers
and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency
whereof are hereby acknowledged, Bingham hereby covenants and agrees with SCOLP
as follows:

      1. GUARANTY. Bingham hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees to
SCOLP and its successors and assigns: (a) the full and prompt payment and
performance when due of the Indebtedness, as hereinafter defined; and (b) the
payment, compliance with and performance of all other obligations, covenants,
representations and warranties of every kind, nature and description in
accordance with all instruments and documents executed by either Borrower in
favor of SCOLP, whether now owing or existing or heretofore or hereafter created
or arising, regardless of whether such obligations, covenants, representations
or warranties are held to be unenforceable, void or of no effect against either
Borrower and including without limitation, those under any loan agreement and/or
promissory note executed and delivered by either Borrower to SCOLP, and any
extensions, modifications or renewals thereof. The term "Indebtedness" shall
mean all principal, interest, attorneys' fees, commitment fees, liabilities for
costs and expenses and all other indebtedness, obligations and liabilities under
and in accordance with the terms of all instruments and documents executed by
either Borrower in favor of SCOLP, whether direct or indirect, absolute or
contingent and whether now owing or existing or heretofore or hereafter created
or arising, and regardless of whether such indebtedness, obligations or
liabilities are held to be unenforceable, void or of no effect against either
Borrower, and all costs, expenses and fees, including reasonable attorneys'
fees, arising in connection with the collection or enforcement of any or all
amounts, indebtedness, obligations and liabilities of either Borrower to SCOLP,
as described above, regardless of whether either Borrower is held to be liable
for such amounts. Bingham acknowledges and agrees that any indebtedness of
either Borrower to SCOLP as evidenced by any promissory note may be extended or
renewed upon maturity at the sole discretion of SCOLP and that the Indebtedness
as defined herein, the payment of which is hereby guaranteed, shall include,
without limitation, all indebtedness and other obligations as extended or
renewed and as may be evidenced by any renewal promissory note.


                                     - 2 -
<PAGE>
      2. GUARANTY UNCONDITIONAL. This is an irrevocable, unconditional and
absolute guaranty of payment, and not of collection, and the undersigned agrees
that its liability on this Amended Guaranty shall be immediate and SCOLP may
have immediate recourse against Bingham for full and immediate payment of the
Indebtedness at any time after the Indebtedness or any part thereof, has not
been paid when due (whether by acceleration or otherwise) or Origen has
defaulted or otherwise failed to perform when due any of its obligations,
covenants, representations or warranties to SCOLP.

      3. LIABILITY NOT CONTINGENT. The liability of Bingham on this Amended
Guaranty shall not be contingent upon the exercise or enforcement by SCOLP of
whatever remedies it may have against either Borrower or others, or the
enforcement of any lien or realization upon any security or collateral SCOLP may
at any time possess. Any one or more successive and/or concurrent actions may be
brought hereon against Bingham either in the same action, if any, brought
against either Borrower or in separate actions, as often as SCOLP, in its sole
discretion, may deem advisable. No election to proceed in one form of action or
proceeding, or against any party, or on any obligation, shall constitute a
waiver of SCOLP's right to proceed in any other form of action or proceeding or
against other parties unless SCOLP has expressly waived such right in writing.
Specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no action or
proceeding by SCOLP against either Borrower under any document or instrument
evidencing or securing the Indebtedness shall serve to diminish the liability of
Bingham, except to the extent SCOLP realizes payment by such action or
proceeding, notwithstanding the effect of any such action or proceeding upon
Bingham's right of subrogation against either Borrower. Receipt by SCOLP of
payment or payments with knowledge of the breach of any provision with respect
to any of the Indebtedness shall not, as to Bingham, be deemed a waiver of such
breach. All rights, powers and remedies of SCOLP hereunder and under any other
agreement now or at any time hereafter in force between SCOLP and Bingham shall
be cumulative and not alternative and shall be in addition to all rights, powers
and remedies given to SCOLP by law.

      4. LIABILITY ABSOLUTE. Bingham agrees that its liability hereunder is
absolute and unconditional and that SCOLP shall not be obligated (although it
may do so at its sole option) before being entitled to direct recourse against
Bingham to take any steps, whatsoever to preserve, protect, accept, perfect
SCOLP's interest in, foreclose upon or realize on collateral security, if any,
for the payment of the Indebtedness or any other guaranty of the Indebtedness or
in any other respect exercise any diligence whatever in collecting or attempting
to collect the Indebtedness by any means.

      5. NO IMPAIRMENT OF LIABILITY. The liability of Bingham shall in no way be
affected or impaired by: (a) any amendment, alteration, extension, renewal,
waiver, indulgence or other modification of the Indebtedness; (b) any settlement
or compromise in connection with the Indebtedness; (c) any subordination of
payments under the Indebtedness to any other debt or claim; (d) any
substitution, exchange, release or other disposition of all or any part of any
collateral for the Indebtedness; (e) any failure, delay, neglect, act or
omission by SCOLP to act in connection with the Indebtedness; (f) any advances
for the purpose of performing any covenant or agreement of either Borrower, or
curing any breach; (g) the filing by or against either Borrower of bankruptcy,
insolvency, reorganization or other debtor's relief afforded either


                                     - 3 -
<PAGE>
Borrower pursuant to the present or future provisions of the Bankruptcy Code or
any other state or federal statute or by the decision of any court; or (h) any
other matter whether similar or dissimilar to the foregoing. The obligations of
Bingham are unconditional, notwithstanding any defect in the genuineness,
validity, regularity or enforceability of the Indebtedness or any other
circumstances whether or not referred to herein, which might otherwise
constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor.

      6. WAIVERS. Bingham hereby waives each and every defense which, under
principles of guaranty or suretyship law or otherwise, would otherwise operate
to impair or diminish the liability of Bingham hereunder, including, without
limitation: (a) notice of acceptance of this Amended Guaranty and of creations
of Indebtedness of either Borrower to SCOLP; (b) any subrogation to the rights
of SCOLP against either Borrower until the Indebtedness has been paid in full;
(c) presentment and demand for payment of any Indebtedness of either Borrower;
(d) protest, notice of protest, and notice of dishonor or default to Bingham or
to any other party with respect to any of the Indebtedness; (e) all other
notices to which Bingham might otherwise be entitled; (f) any demand for payment
under this Amended Guaranty; (g) any defense arising by reason of any disability
or other defense of either Borrower by reason of the cessation from any cause
whatsoever of the liability of either Borrower; (h) any rights to extension,
composition or otherwise under the Bankruptcy Code or any amendments thereof, or
under any state or other federal statute; (i) any right or claim or claim of
right to cause a marshalling of either Borrower's assets; and (j) any
participation in any of the Indebtedness by a third party. No notice to or
demand on Bingham shall be deemed to be a waiver of the obligation of Bingham or
of the right of SCOLP to take further action without notice or demand as
provided herein; nor in any event shall any modification or waiver of the
provisions of this Amended Guaranty be effective unless in writing nor shall any
such waiver be applicable except in the specific instance for which given.

      7. WARRANTIES AND REPRESENTATIONS. Bingham represents, warrants and
covenants to SCOLP that, as of the date of this Amended Guaranty: Bingham is
meeting its current liabilities as they mature; any financial statements of
Bingham furnished SCOLP are true and correct and include in the footnotes
thereto all contingent liabilities of Bingham; since the date of said financial
statements there has been no material adverse change in the financial condition
of Bingham; there are not now pending any material court or administrative
proceedings or undischarged judgments against Bingham and no federal or state
tax liens have been filed or threatened against Bingham, nor is Bingham in
default or claimed default under any agreement for borrowed money.

      8. NOTICES. Bingham agrees to immediately give SCOLP written notice of any
material adverse change in its financial condition, including but not limited to
litigation commenced, tax liens filed, default claimed under its indebtedness
for borrowed money or bankruptcy proceedings commenced by or against Bingham.
Bingham agrees to deliver, timely to SCOLP, annual financial statements for the
preceding fiscal year; and at such reasonable times as SCOLP requests to furnish
its current financial statements to SCOLP and permit SCOLP or its
representatives to inspect at Bingham's offices, its financial records and
properties and make extracts therefrom in order to evaluate the financial
condition of Bingham.


                                     - 4 -
<PAGE>
      9. MISCELLANEOUS. This Amended Guaranty shall inure to the benefit of
SCOLP and its successors and assigns, including each and every holder or owner
of any of the indebtedness guaranteed hereby. In the event that any person other
than SCOLP shall become a holder or owner of any of the Indebtedness, each
reference to SCOLP hereunder shall be construed as if it referred to each such
holder or owner. This Amended Guaranty shall be binding upon Bingham and its
successors and assigns. Bingham agrees that recourse may be had against its
earnings and separate property for all of Bingham's obligations under this
Amended Guaranty. This Amended Guaranty and all rights and obligations
hereunder, including matters of construction, validity and performance, shall be
governed by the laws of the State of Michigan.

      10. JURY WAIVER. BINGHAM ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IS A
CONSTITUTIONAL ONE, BUT THAT IT MAY BE WAIVED. BINGHAM, AFTER CONSULTING (OR
HAVING HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO CONSULT) WITH COUNSEL OF ITS CHOICE, KNOWINGLY AND
VOLUNTARILY, AND FOR ITS BENEFIT WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN THE EVENT
OF LITIGATION REGARDING THE PERFORMANCE OR ENFORCEMENT OF, OR IN ANY WAY RELATED
TO, THIS AMENDED GUARANTY OR THE INDEBTEDNESS.

      11. COLLATERAL. This Amended Guaranty is secured by the collateral
described in (i) the Amended and Restated Security Agreement dated December 13,
1999, as amended, between SCOLP and Bingham; (ii) the Membership Pledge
Agreement dated December 13, 1999 between SCOLP and Bingham (with respect to
membership interests in Bloomfield Acceptance Company, L.L.C. and Bloomfield
Servicing Company, L.L.C.); (iii) the Stock Pledge Agreement dated December 13,
1999 between SCOLP and Bingham; (iv) the Stock Pledge Agreement dated October
20, 2000 between SCOLP and Bingham; and (v) various Uniform Commercial Code
financing statements filed to perfect the security interests granted under the
foregoing agreements.

      12. GUARANTY FREELY GIVEN. THIS AMENDED GUARANTY IS FREELY AND VOLUNTARILY
GIVEN TO SCOLP BY BINGHAM, WITHOUT ANY DURESS OR COERCION, AND AFTER BINGHAM HAS
EITHER CONSULTED WITH COUNSEL OR BEEN GIVEN AN OPPORTUNITY TO DO SO, AND BINGHAM
HAS CAREFULLY AND COMPLETELY READ ALL OF THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THIS
AMENDED GUARANTY.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amended Guaranty was executed and delivered by
the undersigned on the date stated in the first paragraph above.

                                       BINGHAM FINANCIAL SERVICES CORPORATION

                                        /s/ Ronald A. Klein
                                       ----------------------------------------
                                       By: Ronald A. Klein, President and Chief
                                           Executive Officer

0839546.03


                                     - 5 -

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.59
<SEQUENCE>18
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-59.txt
<DESCRIPTION>INVESTMENT AGREEMENT DATED JULY 20, 2001
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                   Exhibit 10.59

                              INVESTMENT AGREEMENT

     THIS INVESTMENT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into as of
July 20, 2001, by and among the investors signing this Agreement (collectively,
the "Investors") who have agreed to participate in BFSC's Recapitalization Plan
by making the Capital Contributions into OFLLC in exchange for the issuance of
the number of Membership Units in OFLLC which are set forth next to each
Investor's name on Exhibit A attached hereto. Capitalized terms that are used
in this Agreement are defined in Section 1 below.

WITNESSETH:

     A.   OFLLC: (i) was organized on June 15, 2001 by filing a Certificate of
          Formation with the Delaware Secretary of State, (ii) has not engaged
          in any business to date, and (iii) is the sole owner of the OFLLC
          Subsidiaries.

     B.   BFSC is and has been the sole member of OFLLC since the date that
          OFLLC was organized but has heretofore not contributed any assets or
          services to OFLLC.

     C.   The parties to this Agreement have agreed that concurrently with the
          satisfaction of the Conditions Precedent, (i) the Investors (other
          than BFSC) shall be admitted as new members of OFLLC and make the
          Capital Contributions into OFLLC which are set forth next to each of
          their respective names on Exhibit A attached hereto in exchange for
          the issuance of the number of Series B Units and Series C Units in
          OFLLC  which are set forth next to the name of each such Investor on
          Exhibit A, and (ii) BFSC shall consummate the Mergers in accordance
          with the terms set forth in the Merger Agreement in exchange for the
          issuance to BFSC of the number of Series A Units in OFLLC that are set
          forth on Exhibit A.

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and for other of good and
valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as
follows:

     1.   DEFINITIONS. As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the
respective meanings set forth below:

          "BFSC" means Bingham Financial Services Corporation, a Michigan
corporation.

          "BFSC CONDITIONS PRECEDENT" means collectively all of the following:

               (a)  On the Closing Date, SCOLP having provided and/or having
                    committed to provide the SCOLP Line of Credit to OFLLC
                    during the 12 month period following the Closing Date; and

               (b)  If a meeting of the shareholders of BFSC is held for the
                    purpose of considering the execution and delivery of the
                    Transaction Documents, the consummation of the Mergers
                    and the other transactions contemplated by this
                    Agreement, Gary Shiffman and all entities and trusts that
                    are directly



                                       1


<PAGE>
                              and/or indirectly owned or controlled by Gary
Shiffman or members of his immediate family (i.e., parents, spouse, or children
or trusts for their benefit) who directly or indirectly own stock in BFSC or
who own or control voting rights in entities that own stock in BFSC
(collectively, the Shiffman Entities") shall have voted in favor of the
execution and delivery of the Transaction Documents, the consummation of the
Mergers, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement; provided that if no such meeting of the BFSC shareholders is held,
this condition precedent shall be deemed to have been satisfied, and

                         (c)  At the time of or prior to the Closing, the
Investors (other than BFSC) shall not have undertaken any action that would
prevent or hinder the BFSC Entities from meeting the conditions precedent set
forth in Sections 7.1(c),(e),(m) and 7.2(e) of the Merger Agreement.

                     "BFSC ENTITIES" shall mean collectively BFSC, OFI, and the
OFI Subsidiaries.

                     "CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS" means (a) with respect to the
Investors (other that BFSC), the capital contributions into OFLLC which are set
forth next to the name of each such Investor on Exhibit A attached hereto, and
(b) with respect to BFSC, the consummation of the Mergers that are more
particularly described in the Merger Agreement.

                     "CERTIFICATE OF FORMATION" means the Certificate of
Formation of OFLLC fled with the Delaware Secretary of State in accordance with
the Delaware Act, as the same may be amended or restated from time to time.

                     "CLOSING" has the meaning ascribed in Section 5 of this
Agreement.

                     "CLOSING DATE" has the meaning ascribed in Section 5 of
this Agreement.

                     "CONDITIONS PRECEDENT" means collectively the Primary
Conditions Precedent, the Diligence Conditions Precedent, and the Secondary
Conditions Precedent.

                     "DELAWARE ACT" means the Delaware Limited Liability
Company Act, Del. Code Ann. tit.6, Sections 18-101 to -1109, as it may be
amended from time to time.

                     "DILIGENCE CONDITIONS PRECEDENT" means collectively all
the following:

                         (a) On or before August 31, 2001, BFSC shall have
obtained a Fairness Opinion;

                         (b) On or before December 31, 2001, each of the
conditions precedent set forth in Sections 7.1(c) and (m) of the Merger
Agreement shall have been satisfied, provided however, in the case of Section
7.1(c) of the Merger Agreement, approval of BFSC's shareholders shall not be
one of the Diligence Conditions Precedent but shall be


                                       2
<PAGE>
          one of the Primary Conditions Precedent under Section (a) of the
          definition of Primary Conditions Precedent.

     "FAIRNESS OPINION" means a fairness opinion received by BFSC from an
independent investment banking firm which indicates that the Recapitalization
Plan and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction
Documents and this Agreement are fair to BFSC and its shareholders.

     "INVESTORS" means collectively the persons and/or entities described on
Exhibit A.

     "LIBOR" means a variable rate of interest equal to the 30 day London
Inter-Bank Offered Rate.

     "LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY AGREEMENT" means the Limited Liability Company
Agreement of the OFLLC, as it may be amended or restated from time to time, a
draft of which is attached hereto as Exhibit C.

     "MANAGING BOARD" means the managing board of OFLLC which (a) shall have a
total of five votes and may have up to five persons who shall be designated as
follows (i) the Investors (other than BFSC) shall have the right to control
three votes (and appoint up to three persons to serve on OFLLC's Managing
Board), and (ii) BFSC shall have the right to control two votes (and appoint up
to two persons to serve on OFLLC's Managing Board), and (b) shall act by the
consent or vote of the majority of the five votes allocated between BFSC and the
Investors (other than BFSC).

     "MATERIAL ADVERSE CHANGE" means any circumstance, change in, or effect on
the condition (financial or otherwise), business, assets or results of
operations of the BFSC Entities and/or the Recapitalized BFSC Entities (as
applicable), which, either individually or in the aggregate: (a) is or is
reasonably likely to be materially adverse to the pre-Closing business,
operations, assets, liabilities, employee relationships, distribution, customers
or supplier relationships, results of operations or the condition (financial or
otherwise) of the BFSC Entities, or (b) could materially adversely affect the
ability of the Recapitalized BFSC Entities to operate or conduct their on-going
post-Closing business operations.

     "MEMBERSHIP UNITS" means collectively the Series A Units and Series B
Units to be issued to the Investors by OFLLC in the manner described on Exhibit
A attached hereto.

     "MERGER AGREEMENT" means the Merger Agreement dated December 17, 2001 by
and among the BFSC Entities and the Recapitalized BFSC Entities, a draft of
which is attached hereto as Exhibit D, pursuant to which BFSC will cause the
mergers of (a) OFI with and into OFLLC, (b) Origen Special Holdings Corporation
with and into Origen Special Purpose L.L.C.; (c) Origen Manufactured Home
Financial, Inc. with and into Origen Manufactured Home Financial, L.L.C., and
(d) Origen Insurance Agency, Inc. with and into Origen Insurance Agency, L.L.C.,
each as more fully described in such Merger Agreement.

     "MERGERS" mean the statutory merger transactions described in the Merger
Agreement.

     "OFI" shall mean Origen Financial, Inc., a Virginia corporation.



                                       3
<PAGE>
     "OFI SUBSIDIARIES" shall mean collectively each of the following
corporations which are wholly owned by OFI: Origen Special Holdings Corporation
which is organized in Delaware, and Origen Manufactured Home Financial, Inc. and
Origen Insurance Agency, Inc., each of which is organized in Virginia.

     "OFLLC" means Origen Financial L.L.C., a limited liability company
organized under the laws of the State of Delaware pursuant to the
Certificate of Formation and OFLLC's Limited Liability Company Agreement.

     "OFLLC SUBSIDIARIES" shall mean collectively each of the following limited
liability companies which are wholly owned by OFLLC: Origen Special Purposes,
L.L.C., Origen Manufactured Home Financial, L.L.C., and Origen Special Purpose
II, L.L.C., each organized in Delaware, and Origen Insurance Agency, L.L.C.,
organized in Virginia.

     "PRIMARY CONDITIONS PRECEDENT" means collectively all of the following:


          (a) On or before October 31, 2001, BFSC shall have obtained
              resolutions adopted by its board of directors and shareholders
              authorizing the execution and delivery of the Transaction
              Documents, the consummation of the Mergers and the consummation of
              the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, provided,
              however, that in the case of obtaining authorization by BFSC's
              shareholders for the foregoing matters (the "BFSC Shareholder
              Approval"), in the event that BFSC has diligently taken steps to
              obtain the BFSC Shareholder Approval by promptly submitting a
              proxy to the SEC (the "BFSC Proxy"), the deadline for obtaining
              the BFSC Shareholder Approval (i.e., October 31, 2001) shall be
              extended (if necessary) by the number of days in excess of 30 days
              during which BFSC is diligently seeking SEC approval of the BFSC
              Proxy;

          (b) From the date of this Agreement to the Closing Date, no Material
              Adverse Change arising from of any action or inaction of any of
              the BFSC Entities shall have occurred to any of the BFSC Entities
              and/or the Recapitalized BFSC Entities

          (c) On the Closing Date each of the conditions precedent set forth in
              Sections 7.1(a), (b), (f), (h) and (i), of the Merger Agreement
              shall have been satisfied.

          (d) On or before October 31, 2001, each of the conditions precedent
              set forth in Sections 7.1 (k) and (l) of the Merger Agreement
              shall have been satisfied.

     "RECAPITALIZED BFSC ENTITIES" shall mean collectively BFSC, OFLLC, and the
      OFLLC Subsidiaries.




                                       4
<PAGE>
    "RECAPITALIZATION PLAN" means the Recapitalization Plan of Bingham Financial
Services Corporation which is more particularly described on the Term Sheet and
in the schematic representations that are attached hereto as Exhibit E.

     "SCOLP" means Sun Communities Operating Limited Partnership, a limited
partnership organized under the laws of Michigan.

     "SCOLP LINE OF CREDIT" means the $12,500,000.00 stand-by line of credit to
be issued by SCOLP to OFLLC prior to and/or concurrently with the execution of
the Transaction Documents. The SCOLP Line of Credit shall: (a) provide for a
commitment fee to be determined based on current market rates for similar
facilities which shall be paid by OFLLC to SCOLP in the event that OFLLC draws
on the SCOLP Line of Credit, (b) be available to OFLLC during the twelve month
period following the Closing Date, (c) bear interest at the rate of 700 bps over
30 day LIBOR per annum with a floor of 11% and a cap of 15%, (d) be subordinated
in all respects to BFSC Entities' current credit facility (the "Senior
Facility") with Credit Suisse First Boston Mortgage Capital, LLC (the "Senior
Lender"), and (e) be secured by all assets of OFLLC and the OFLLC Subsidiaries
to the extent permitted under the credit facility documents related to the
Senior Facility.

     "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.

     "SECONDARY CONDITIONS PRECEDENT" means collectively all of the following:

          (a) From the date of this Agreement to the Closing Date, no Material
              Adverse Change arising from any occurrence other than the action
              or inaction of any of the BFSC Entities shall have occurred to
              any of BFSC Entities and/or Recapitalized BFSC Entities;

          (b) On the Closing Date the condition precedent set forth in Section
              7.1(e) of the Merger Agreement shall have been satisfied.

          (c) On or before October 31, 2001, the condition precedent set forth
              in Section 7.1 (n) of the Merger Agreement shall have been
              satisfied.

     "SERIES A UNITS" means the Membership Units in OFLLC designated as Series
Units on Exhibit A attached hereto, which Series A Units (i) are to be issued to
BFSC upon the consummation of the Mergers and the Recapitalization Plan, and
(ii) shall have such rights, terms, and obligations as provided for in OFLLC's
Limited Liability Company Agreement.

     "SERIES B UNITS" means the Membership Units in OFLLC designated as Series B
Units on Exhibit A attached hereto, which Series B Units (i) are to be issued to
the Investors (other than BFSC) who have made the Capital Contributions that are
set forth on Exhibit A attached hereto upon the consummation of the
Recapitalization Plan, and (ii) shall have such rights, terms, and obligations
as provided for in OFLLC's Limited Liability Company Agreement.

     "TERM SHEET" means the term sheet attached hereto as Exhibit F.



                                       5
<PAGE>
        "TRANSACTION DOCUMENTS" means collectively this Agreement, the Limited
Liability Company Agreement, the Merger Agreement, the Series A Units, the
Series B Units, and all additional documents, instruments, and/or agreements
that are delivered in connection with the consummation of the Recapitalization
Plan and related transactions described in this Agreement.

        2. ORGANIZATION OF OFLLC AND OFLLC SUBSIDIARIES. The parties to this
Agreement acknowledge and agree that; (a) BFSC has heretofore retained counsel
to: (i) prepare and file Articles of Organization for OFLLC and the OFLLC
Subsidiaries, and (ii) prepare the Limited Liability Company Agreement, the
Merger Agreement, and the Transaction Documents which are necessary to
consummate the Recapitalization Plan and in accordance with the terms set forth
in the Term Sheet and this Agreement, and (b) concurrently with the consummation
of the Recapitalization Plan, OFLLC shall be governed by a Managing Board whose
initial members shall be (a) Ronald Klein who shall exercise the two votes
allocated to BFSC, and (b) representatives of the Investors (other than BFSC)
who shall exercise the three votes allocated to the Investors (other than BFSC).

        3. CONSUMMATION OF RECAPITALIZATION PLAN; FUNDING CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS;
AND EXECUTION OF TRANSACTION DOCUMENTS. On the Closing Date: (a) the Investors
shall execute and deliver all Transaction Documents (other than this Agreement),
(b) the BFSC Entities and the Recapitalized BFSC Entities shall consummate the
Mergers, and (c) the Investors (other than BFSC) shall make the Capital
Contributions to OFLLC that are described in this Agreement and on Exhibit A
attached hereto.

        4. ISSUANCE OF SERIES A UNITS AND SERIES B UNITS. Upon funding of all of
the Capital Contributions and the consummation of the Mergers, OFLLC shall issue
to each of the Investors the number of Series A Units or Series B Units which
are set forth next to the name of each Investor on Exhibit A attached hereto.

        5. CLOSING AND CLOSING DATE. Subject to the satisfaction of each of the
Conditions Precedent, the closing of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement (the "Closing ") shall occur on or before December 31, 2001, or at
such other date as shall be mutually agreed upon by the parties hereto (the
"Closing Date").

        6. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT. The obligation of the Investors (other than
BFSC) to enter into the Transaction Documents or make Capital Contributions is
subject to the satisfaction of all the Conditions Precedent (compliance with
which, or the occurrence of which, may be waived in whole or in part by the
Investors (other than BFSC), provided, however, that the funding of the Capital
Contributions by the Investors (other than BFSC) and/or Closing shall be deemed
a satisfaction or waiver of such Conditions Precedent). The obligation of BFSC
to consummate the Merger or enter into the Transaction Documents is subject to
the fulfillment of the BFSC Conditions Precedent and the other Investors making
their Capital Contributions.

        7. ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTS. Each of the parties to this Agreement agrees to
execute and deliver and/or (where applicable) cause their affiliated entities to
execute and deliver to BFSC, the Senior Lender and/or the other parties to this
Agreement (where applicable) any and all documents, instruments, and/or
agreements, in addition to those otherwise provided for herein, that may be
necessary and/or appropriate to effectuate the provisions of this Agreement
whether before, on or after the date of execution of this Agreement. In this
regard, prior to the Closing Date, the Investors (other




                                       6
<PAGE>

than BFSC) shall have each obtained and delivered to BFSC resolutions adopted
by their respective Board of Directors, Board of Managers, Shareholders and/or
Members (as applicable) authorizing (where applicable) the execution and
delivery of the Transaction Documents, the funding of their respective Capital
Contributions, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the
Transaction Documents and this Agreement. All Transaction Documents executed
and delivered and all actions taken in connection with the Recapitalization
Plan and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Investors and their counsel.

     8. TRANSACTION FEES AND EXPENSES: RECIPROCAL BREAK-UP FEE. The parties to
this Agreement hereby acknowledge and agree to the following terms and
conditions relating to the payment of transaction fees and expenses and
potential break-up fees relating to and/or arising out of the Recapitalization
Plan and/or the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents and this
Agreement:

     (a) TRANSACTION FEES AND EXPENSES. In the event that the transactions
relating to the Recapitalization Plan described in this Agreement are
consummated, all transaction fees and expenses relating to the Recapitalization
Plan, including, but not limited to, all costs and expenses associated with
and/or relating to the negotiation, preparation, execution, and delivery of the
Transaction Documents, any applicable licensing activities for the Recapitalized
BFSC Entities, and all fees charged by legal, accounting and investment banking
counsel to the Investors, shall be paid by OFLLC. In the event that the
transactions relating to the Recapitalization Plan described in this Agreement
are not consummated, the parties to this Agreement shall each bear their own
respective costs and expenses in connection with the transactions contemplated
by this Agreement.

     (b) RECIPROCAL BREAK-UP FEE AND REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES. The parties to
this Agreement further acknowledge and agree that in the event: (a) all of the
Conditions Precedent have been satisfied and BFSC is prepared to consummate the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement on the terms and conditions set
forth herein and in the Transaction Documents, and the Investors (excluding
BFSC) have not executed the Transaction Documents and funded their respective
Capital Contributions and/or the BFSC Conditions Precedent have not been
satisfied, the Investors (other than BFSC) shall immediately pay BFSC a break-up
fee in the amount of $2,000,000; and (b) (i) all of the Primary Conditions
Precedent have not been satisfied, or (ii) any of the Diligence Conditions
Precedent have not been satisfied and BFSC has not been diligently pursuing the
satisfaction of any of such Diligence Conditions Precedent or if BFSC does not
obtain a Fairness Opinion because a transaction involving a loan, joint venture,
sale, merger or other similar business transaction (collectively, an
"Alternative Transaction") between one or more of the BFSC Entities and a party
or parties other than the Investors (other than BFSC) is pending or consummated,
or (iii) all of the BFSC Conditions Precedent have been satisfied and the
Investors (other than BFSC) are prepared to consummate the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement under the terms and conditions that are set forth
herein and in the Transaction Documents but BFSC has not executed the
Transaction Documents and caused the Mergers to be consummated, or (iv) prior to
or contemporaneously therewith any of the events described in the foregoing
clauses (i) through (iii) occurring, BFSC shall stop pursuing the consummation
of the transactions described in this Agreement because of the pendency or
consummation of an Alternative Transaction, BFSC shall immediately pay to the
Investors an aggregate break-up fee in the amount of $2,000,000 (which shall be
allocated among and paid to the Investors (other than BFSC) in proportion to the
amount that each such Investor's allocated Capital Contribution bears to the
total amount of all Capital Contributions to be made by all Investors (other




                                       7
<PAGE>

than BFSC) to OFLLC). The parties acknowledge and agree that the damage either
BFSC or the other Investors would incur if the transactions contemplated herein
are not consummated would most likely be incapable of accurate calculation and
that $2,000,000 is a reasonable estimate of the actual damages a party would
incur in such event.

     Further, in the event that (a) BFSC has diligently pursued the
satisfaction of each of the Diligence Conditions Precedent and any of the
Diligence Conditions Precedent have not been satisfied; or (b) any of the
Secondary Conditions Precedent have not been satisfied, BFSC shall (a)
immediately reimburse the Investors (other than BFSC) for all their
out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them or any of their affiliates in
connection with: (i) the preparation, drafting and negotiation of this
Agreement and the Transaction Documents and any other document related to the
transactions contemplated in this Agreement; and (ii) their due diligence
review of the BFSC Entities, provided, however, that the aggregate amount of
such reimbursements shall be capped at $300,000.00 (the "Investor Expense
Reimbursements"), and (b) be relieved from any obligation to pay the Investors
the $2,000,000.00 break-up fee referenced above.

     Anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding, if (a) any
Conditions Precedent are not satisfied due to of the unwillingness by any
Investor (other than BFSC) to cooperate with and/or submit financial or other
information to any governmental and/or licensing authorities which are required
in connection with the submission by the Recapitalized BFSC Entities or
applications to obtain the various licenses and permits that are necessary to
permit the Recapitalized BFSC Entities to continue to operate their respective
business operations after the Closing Date, and (b) such failure to cooperate
with and/or submit financial or other information to any applicable
governmental and/or licensing authority causes any of the Diligence Conditions
Precedent (which are not waived) not to be satisfied, then; (i) no party to
this Agreement shall be obligated to pay any of the break-up fees that are
described in this Section 8(b), and (ii) BFSC shall not be obligated to pay the
Investor Expense Reimbursements.

     9. COMPLIANCE WITH SECURITIES LAWS. Each Investor acknowledges that,
covenants with, and represents and warrants to, each of the Recapitalized BFSC
Entities and each of the other Investors as follows:

        (a) Such Investor is acquiring his, her, or its Membership Units for
his, her, or its own account and for investment purposes only, and not with a
view to the assignment of all or any portion of such Membership Units.

        (b) Such Investor shall not assign all or any portion of his, her, or
its Membership Units in a manner which violates any federal or state securities
law.

        (c) the Membership Units are not registered under the Securities Act of
1933 (the "Securities Act") or any applicable state securities laws and such
Membership Units are "restricted securities" as defined under the Securities
Act.

        (d) Such Investor has been furnished with such information about the
BFSC Entities and the Recapitalized BFSC Entities as he, she, or it has
requested and has had the opportunity to




                                       8
<PAGE>
communicate with the Directors and/or Managers of the BFSC Entities and the
Recapitalized BFSC Entities in order to verify the accuracy of, or amplify
upon, the foregoing information.

               (e)  Such Investor has such knowledge and experience in financial
business matters that he, she, or it is capable of evaluating the risks and
merits of acquiring the Membership Units and has had the opportunity to consult
with independent advisors with regard to his, her, or its investment in the
Membership Units.

               (f)  Such Investor shall not sell, assign or otherwise transfer
his, her, or its Membership Units or any portion thereof: (i) except in
accordance with the terms and restrictions that are set forth in the Limited
Liability Company Agreement, or (ii) to any person or entity who does not make
the acknowledgments and agreements set forth herein.

               (g)  Such Investor is an "Accredited Investor" within the
meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act;

               (h)  Such Investor is able to bear the risk of loss of his,
her, or its entire investment in the Membership Units and has no immediate need
for the funds that he, she, or it intends to invest in the Recapitalized BFSC
Entities.

               (i)  Such Investor has no need for liquidity with respect to
his, her, or its investment in the Recapitalized BFSC Entities and is able to
bear the economic risk of his, her, or its investment in the Recapitalized BFSC
Entities for an indefinite period of time.

               (j)  Such Investor realizes that his, her, or its intended
investment in the Recapitalized BFSC Entities is illiquid, is not readily
transferable, and that transfer of the Membership Units he, she, or it has or
will acquire is in fact restricted.

        10.    GENERAL PROVISIONS.

               (a)  SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE. The parties hereto acknowledge and
agree that the subject matter of this Agreement is unique and that the failure
of any party hereto to comply with the terms and conditions contained herein
constitutes irreparable injury if not fully and completely performed;
accordingly, any party seeking to enforce the terms and covenants contained
herein shall be entitled to the equitable relief of specific performance and/or
such other equitable relief as decreed and/or ordered by a court of competent
jurisdiction.

               (b)  GOVERNING LAW; JURISDICTION.  This Agreement and the
performance hereof shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the
laws of the State of Michigan. Furthermore, the parties hereto acknowledge and
agree that any dispute arising out of this Agreement shall be determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction located in Oakland County, Michigan or a
federal court located in Wayne County, Michigan.

               (c)  ENTIRE AGREEMENT.  This Agreement and the Transaction
Documents constitutes the entire Agreement between the parties hereto in
connection with the subject matter hereof. None of the parties to this
Agreement have made any statements, representations or warranties in connection
herewith, except as expressly set forth herein. This Agreement and the
Transaction Documents may not


                                       9
<PAGE>
be modified orally, and no modification shall be effective unless in writing
and signed by all the parties hereto making specific reference to the changes
to be made to this Agreement.

               (d)  BINDING AGREEMENT.  This Agreement shall be binding upon
and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto, their respective heirs,
personal representatives, successors and assigns.

               (e)  NOTICES.  All notices, requests, demands and other
communications required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing,
and shall be deemed to have been given when received, if delivered in person,
or three (3) business days following the mailing thereof, if mailed by
certified mail, return receipt requested and regular mail, postage prepaid to
the Investors at the following addresses:

     IF TO BFSC:                       260 East Brown Street
                                       Suite 200
                                       Birmingham, Michigan 48009
                                       Attention: Ronald A. Klein

     WITH A COPY TO:                   Williams, Williams, Ruby & Plunkett, P.C.
                                       380 North Old Woodward Avenue
                                       Suite 300
                                       Birmingham, Michigan 48009
                                       Attention: James A. Williams, Esq.

     IF TO SUI TRS, INC. OR            31700 Middlebelt Road
     SHIFFMAN FAMILY, LLC:             Suite 145
                                       Farmington Hills, Michigan 48334
                                       Attention: Gary A. Shiffman

     WITH A COPY TO:                   Jaffe, Raitt, Heuer & Weiss, P.C.
                                       One Woodward Avenue
                                       Suite 2400
                                       Detroit, Michigan 48226
                                       Attention: Arthur A. Weiss, Esq.

     IF TO WOODWARD HOLDING, LLC       2300 Harmon Road
                                       Auburn Hills, Michigan 48326
                                       Attention: Paul A. Halpern, Esq.

               (f)  WAIVER. Waiver by any party of any breach, or failure to
enforce any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, at any time, shall
not in any way affect, limit or waive such party's right thereafter to enforce
and compel strict compliance with every term and condition hereof.

               (g)  SEVERABILITY.  If and to the extent that any provision of
this Agreement or portion thereof shall be determined by any legislature or
court to be in whole or in part invalid or unenforceable, such provision or
term shall be unenforceable only to the extent of such invalidity without
invalidating the remaining provisions hereof and all other provisions of this
Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, and the rights and obligations
of the parties shall be construed and enforced accordingly. In


                                       10
<PAGE>
addition, it is the intent of the parties hereto that any provision of the
Agreement which is determined to be invalid or unenforceable shall be
interpreted in a form which is not invalid or unenforceable with the intent that
the terms and conditions imposed by this Agreement shall be construed and
enforced in such a manner as to give them the broadest enforceable scope and
effect.

               (h)  MISCELLANEOUS.  This Agreement may be executed in
counterparts, and each such counterpart shall constitute an original and all
such counterparts shall constitute one and the same instrument.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement on or as
of the date and year first appearing above.

                              BINGHAM FINANCIAL SERVICES CORPORATION,
                              A MICHIGAN CORPORATION


                              BY:  /s/ RONALD A. KLEIN
                                 ----------------------------
                                   RONALD A. KLEIN
                              ITS: PRESIDENT


                              SUI TRS, INC., A MICHIGAN CORPORATION


                              BY:  /s/ GARY A. SHIFFMAN
                                 ----------------------------
                                   GARY A. SHIFFMAN
                              ITS: PRESIDENT


                              SHIFFMAN FAMILY LLC,
                              A MICHIGAN LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY TO BE FORMED


                              BY:  /s/ ARTHUR A. WEISS
                                 ----------------------------
                                   ARTHUR A. WEISS
                              ITS: MANAGER


                              WOODWARD HOLDING, LLC
                              A MICHIGAN LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY


                              BY:  /s/ PAUL A. HALPERN
                                 ----------------------------
                                   PAUL A. HALPERN
                              ITS: MANAGER


                                       11
<PAGE>
                                  EXHIBIT "A"

                       SCHEDULE OF CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS

<Table>

                                                SERIES A                SERIES B            SERIES C            INITIAL CAPITAL
        MEMBER                ADDRESS            UNITS                   UNITS              UNITS(1)              CONTRIBUTION
        ------                -------            -----                   -----               -----                ------------
<S>                   <C>                      <C>                      <C>                 <C>                  <C>
BINGHAM FINANCIAL     260 East Brown Street     200,000                    -0-                                     Consummation of
SERVICES CORPORATION  Suite 200                                                                                    Mergers pursuant
                      Birmingham, MI 48009                                                                           to Merger
                                                                                                                     Agreement

Shiffman Family LLC   31700 Middlebelt            -0-                     100,00                                     $5,000,000
                      Suite 145
                      Farmington Hills, MI 48334


SUI TRS, INC.        31700 Middlebelt             -0-                     300,000                                    $15,000,000
                     Suite 145
                     Farmington Hills, MI  48334

WOODWARD HOLDING,    2300 Harmon Road             -0-                       -0-               400,000                 $20,000,000
LLC                  Auburn Hills, MI 48326

</Table>
- ------------------------------
(1) The Series C Units shall be non-voting.
<PAGE>
                                                                   Exhibit 10.59

                       AMENDMENT TO INVESTMENT AGREEMENT
                       ---------------------------------

     This Amendment to Investment Agreement (this "Amendment") is made and
entered into as of August 13, 2001 by and among Bingham Financial Services
Corporation, a Michigan corporation, SUI TRS, Inc. a Michigan corporation,
Shiffman Family LLC, a Michigan limited liability company, and Woodward
Holding, LLC, a Michigan limited liability company. Capitalized terms that are
used in this Amendment are defined in the Agreement (as hereinafter defined).

                                    RECITALS

     A.  The parties to this Amendment have entered into an Investment
         Agreement as of July 20, 2001 (the "Agreement").

     B.  The parties to this Amendment wish to amend the Agreement as
         hereinafter provided.

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the parties hereto
intending to legally bound, agree as follows:

   1. The Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

     A.  The definition of "Managing Board" set forth in the Agreement is
         hereby deleted and the following is hereby substituted in its place:

           "MANAGING BOARD" means the managing board of OFLLC which (a) shall
           have a total of five votes and may have up to five persons who shall
           be designated as follows (i) the holders of the Series B Units shall
           have the right to control two votes (and appoint up to two persons to
           serve on OFLLC's Managing Board), (ii) BFSC shall have the right to
           control two votes (and appoint up to two persons to serve on OFLLC's
           Managing Board), and (iii) holders of the Series B Units and BFSC
           will together appoint one person who shall control one vote and shall
           have the right to appoint his or her successor (that person, and his
           or her successor, being hereinafter referred to as the "Independent
           Director"), and (b) shall, except as otherwise provided in the
           Limited Liability Company Agreement, act by the consent or vote of
           the majority of the five votes allocated between BFSC, the holders of
           the Series B Units and the Independent Director.

     B.  The definition of "Membership Units" set forth in the Agreement is
         hereby deleted and the following is hereby substituted in its place:


                                       1
<PAGE>
        "MEMBERSHIP UNITS" means collectively the Series A Units, Series B
        Units and Series C Units to be issued to the Investors by OFLLC in the
        manner described on Exhibit A attached hereto."

C.  The definition of "Merger Agreement" set forth in the Agreement is hereby
    amended by deleting therefrom the words, "dated July ____, 2001"

D.  The definition of "OFLLC Subsidiaries" set forth in the Agreement is hereby
    amended by deleting the word "Purposes" from the second line thereof and
    substituting the word "Purpose" in its place.

E.  The definition of "SCOLP Line of Credit" set forth in the Agreement is
    hereby deleted and the following is hereby substituted in its place:

       "SCOLP LINE OF CREDIT" means the $12,500,000 stand-by line of credit to
       be issued by SCOLP to OFLLC prior to and/or concurrently with the Closing
       and which shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and
       conditions set forth in the minutes of the meetings of the Boards of
       Directors of BFSC and Sun Communities, Inc. which were each held on June
       25, 2001."

F.  The definition of "Series B Units" set forth in the Agreement is hereby
    amended by adding the words "and Woodward Holding, LLC" to the third line
    thereof after the word "BFSC", and by deleting the words "have made" from
    the third line thereof and substituting the words "shall make" in their
    place.

G.  The definition of "Term Sheet" set forth in the Agreement is hereby amended
    by deleting therefrom the words "Exhibit F" and substituting in their place
    the words "Exhibit E."

H.  The definition of "Transaction Documents" set forth in the Agreement is
    hereby amended by deleting the words "the Series A Units, the Series B
    Units," from the second line thereof.

I.  The following definition is hereby added to the Agreement:

          "SERIES C UNITS" means the Membership Units in OFLLC designated as
          Series C Units on Exhibit A attached hereto, which Series C Units (i)
          are to be issued to Woodward Holding, LLC which shall make the Capital
          Contribution that is set forth on Exhibit A attached hereto upon the
          consummation of the Recaptialization Plan, and (ii) shall have the
          rights, terms, and obligations as provided for in OFLLC's Limited
          Liability Company Agreement.


                                       2
<PAGE>
     J.   Paragraph 2 of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and the
          following is hereby substituted in its place:

          "2. ORGANIZATION OF OFLLC AND OFLLC SUBSIDIARIES. The parties to
              this Agreement acknowledge and agree that: (a) BFSC has heretofore
              retained counsel to (i) prepare and file Articles of Organization
              for OFLLC and the OFLLC Subsidiaries, and (ii) prepare the Limited
              Liability Company Agreement, the Merger Agreement, and the other
              Transaction Documents which are necessary to consummate the
              Recapitalization Plan in accordance with the terms set forth in
              the Term Sheet and this Agreement, and (b) concurrently with the
              consummation of the Recapitalization Plan, OFLLC shall be governed
              by a Managing Board whose initial members shall be (i) Ronald A.
              Klein who shall exercise the two votes allocated to BFSC, (ii)
              Gary A. Shiffman who shall exercise the two votes allocated  to
              the Investors holding Series B Units, and (iii) the Independent
              Director chosen by BFSC and the holders of the Series B Units,
              who shall exercise one vote."

     K.   Paragraph 4 of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and
          the following is hereby substituted in its place.

          "4.  ISSUANCE OF UNITS. Upon funding of all of the Capital
               Contributions and the consummation of the Mergers, OFLLC shall
               issue to each of the Investors the number of Series A Units,
               Series B Units and Series C Units which are set forth next to the
               name of each Investor on Exhibit A attached hereto."

     L.   Section 8 (b) of the Agreement is hereby amended by adding to the
          sixth line thereof after the words "BFSC Conditions Precedent" the
          following parenthetical phrase: "(other than the BFSC Condition
          Precedent set forth in clause (c) of the definition of BFSC Conditions
          Precedent)".

     M.   Section 10 (e) of the Agreement is hereby amended by changing the
          address of Woodward Holding, LLC to:

               "c/o Jaffe, Raitt, Heuer & Weiss, P.C.
               One Woodward Avenue, Suite 2400
               Detroit, Michigan 48266
               Attention: David H. Raitt"

     N.   Exhibit A to the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and
          replaced with Exhibit A attached to this Amendment.



                                       3
<PAGE>
     2. As amended by this Amendment, the Agreement, and all of its terms and
        provisions, shall remain in full force and effect.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment on or as
of the date and year first appearing above.


                              BINGHAM FINANCIAL SERVICES CORPORATION,
                              A MICHIGAN CORPORATION


                              BY:   /s/ RONALD A. KLEIN
                                 ----------------------------
                                   RONALD A. KLEIN
                              ITS: PRESIDENT


                              SUI TRS, INC., A MICHIGAN CORPORATION


                              BY:   /s/ GARY A. SHIFFMAN
                                 ----------------------------
                                   GARY A. SHIFFMAN
                              ITS: PRESIDENT


                              SHIFFMAN FAMILY LLC,
                              A MICHIGAN LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY


                              BY:   /s/ ARTHUR A. WEISS
                                 ----------------------------
                                   ARTHUR A. WEISS
                              ITS: MANAGER


                              WOODWARD HOLDING, LLC,
                              A MICHIGAN LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY


                              BY:  /s/ PAUL A. HALPERN
                                -----------------------------
                                   PAUL A. HALPERN
                              ITS: MANAGER


                                       4

<PAGE>
                                  EXHIBIT "A"

                       SCHEDULE OF CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS

<Table>

                           SERIES A                SERIES B            SERIES C            INITIAL CAPITAL
        MEMBER              UNIT                    UNITS              UNITS(1)              CONTRIBUTION
        ------              -----                   -----               -----                ------------
<S>                      <C>                      <C>                 <C>                  <C>
BINGHAM FINANCIAL          200,000                    -0-                                     Consummation of
SERVICES CORPORATION                                                                          Mergers pursuant
                                                                                               to Merger
                                                                                               Agreement

Shiffman Family LLC           -0-                   84,211                                     $4,210,526




SUI TRS, INC.                 -0-                   315,789                                    $15,789,474



WOODWARD HOLDING,            -0-                      -0-              400,000                $20,000,000
LLC

</Table>



__________________________________________________
(1) The Series C Units shall be non-voting.



                                       5


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.60
<SEQUENCE>19
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-60.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY AGREEMENT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                   Exhibit 10.60


                     LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY AGREEMENT

                                      OF

                           ORIGEN FINANCIAL, L.L.C.


      THE UNITS REPRESENTED BY THIS LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY AGREEMENT HAVE NOT
      BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, THE DELAWARE UNIFORM
      SECURITIES ACT OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY OTHER STATE. TRANSFER OF SUCH
      UNITS IS RESTRICTED BY THE TERMS OF THIS LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY
      AGREEMENT.
<PAGE>
                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 Page
                                                                                 ----

<S>                                                                              <C>
1.    CONTINUATION AND PURPOSE..............................................       2
      1.1   Continuation....................................................       2
      1.2   Purpose.........................................................       2
      1.3   Name............................................................       2
      1.4   Principal Place of Business.....................................       2
      1.5   Registered Office and Resident Agent............................       2
      1.6   Duration........................................................       3

2.    CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS, UNITS AND RELATED MATTERS......................       3
      2.1   Capital Contributions...........................................       3
      2.2   Units...........................................................       3
      2.3   Additional Capital Contributions................................       3
            (a)   Additional Capital Calls..................................       3
            (b)   Member's Failure to Make Additional Contribution
                  -- Dilution...............................................       4
      2.4   Contribution Returns............................................       5
      2.5   No Third Party Beneficiaries....................................       5

3.    PROFITS, LOSSES AND DISTRIBUTIONS.....................................       5
      3.1   Allocation of Profits and Losses................................       5
      3.2   Tax Allocations.................................................       5
            (a)   Taxable Income............................................       6
            (b)   Losses....................................................       6
            (c)   Section 704(c) Allocations................................       6
      3.3   Special Allocations.............................................       7
            (a)   Company Minimum Gain Chargeback...........................       7
            (b)   Member Nonrecourse Debt Minimum Gain Chargeback...........       7
            (c)   Qualified Income Offset...................................       8
            (d)   Nonrecourse Deductions....................................       8
            (e)   Member Nonrecourse Deductions.............................       8
      3.4   Curative Allocations............................................       8
      3.5   Tax Distributions...............................................       8
      3.6   Distributions of Excess Cash....................................       9
      3.7   Limitations on Distributions....................................       9

4.    MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY; RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF THE MANAGER...........       9
      4.1   Management by Board of Managers; Number.........................       9
      4.2   Power and Authority.............................................      10
      4.3   Meetings of the Board of Managers; Voting Requirements;
            Actions by Written Consent......................................      13
</TABLE>


                                       i
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<S>                                                                              <C>
            (a)   Notice of Meeting.........................................      13
            (b)   Attendance................................................      13
            (c)   Voting Requirements; Action by Written Consent............      14
            (d)   Miscellaneous Matters.....................................      14
      4.4   Standard of Care; Liability; Indemnification;
              Confidentiality...............................................      14
            (a)   Standard of Care..........................................      14
            (b)   Liability.................................................      15
            (c)   Indemnification...........................................      15
            (d)   Confidentiality...........................................      16
      4.5   Tenure; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies.........................      16
            (a)   Tenure....................................................      16
            (b)   Annual Appointment........................................      16
            (c)   Resignation...............................................      16
            (d)   Removal...................................................      16
            (e)   Vacancies.................................................      16
            (f)   Independent Manager.......................................      17
      4.6   Self-Dealing....................................................      17
      4.7   Devotion of Time to Company.....................................      18
      4.8   Compensation and Expenses.......................................      18
      4.9   Officers........................................................      18
            (a)   Optional Appointment......................................      18
            (b)   Tenure....................................................      19
            (c)   Resignation...............................................      19
            (d)   Removal...................................................      19
            (e)   Vacancies.................................................      19
            (f)   President and Chief Executive Officer.....................      19
            (g)   Chief Financial Officer...................................      20
            (h)   Vice Presidents...........................................      20
            (i)   Secretary.................................................      20
            (j)   Assistant Secretaries.....................................      20
      4.10  Employment Agreements...........................................      21

5.    RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF MEMBERS..........................................      21
      5.1   Participation in Management; Voting Rights......................      21
      5.2   Withdrawal; Expulsion...........................................      22
            (a)   Withdrawal................................................      22
            (b)   Expulsion.................................................      22
            (c)   Death.....................................................      22
      5.3   Limited Liability of Members....................................      22
      5.4   Access to Company Information...................................      22
      5.5   Meetings of the Members; Actions by Written Consent.............      22
            (a)   Notice of Meeting.........................................      23
            (b)   Attendance................................................      23
            (c)   Quorum....................................................      23
            (d)   Voting Requirements.......................................      23
</TABLE>


                                       ii
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<S>                                                                              <C>

            (e)   Adjournment...............................................      23
            (f)   Minutes...................................................      24
            (g)   Action by Written Consent.................................      24
      5.6   Sale of the Company.............................................      24

6.    ASSIGNMENT OF UNITS AND ADMISSION OF ADDITIONAL MEMBERS...............      25
      6.1   Compliance with Securities Laws.................................      25
      6.2   Assignments and Substitute Members..............................      26
            (a)   Effect of Assignments.....................................      26
            (b)   Substitute Members........................................      26
            (c)   Effect of Assignment......................................      27
      6.3   Section 754 Election............................................      28
      6.4   Admission of Additional Members.................................      28
      6.5   Amendment of Limited Liability Company Agreement to
              Reflect Assignment............................................      29
      6.6   Definition......................................................      29
      6.7   Call Option.....................................................      29

7.    NOTICES...............................................................      31
      7.1   Manner of Delivery..............................................      31
      7.2   Date............................................................      31
      7.3   Change of Address...............................................      32

8.    DISSOLUTION...........................................................      32
      8.1   Events of Dissolution...........................................      32
      8.2   Winding Up and Liquidating Distributions........................      32

9.    MISCELLANEOUS.........................................................      33
      9.1   Books and Records...............................................      33
      9.2   Financial Statements............................................      33
      9.3   Governing Law...................................................      33
      9.4   Amendments......................................................      34
      9.5   Binding Effect..................................................      34
      9.6   Severability....................................................      34
      9.7   Construction....................................................      34
      9.8   Pronouns........................................................      34
      9.9   Counterparts and Facsimile Signatures...........................      34
      9.10  Tax Matters Partner.............................................      35

10.   DEFINITIONS...........................................................      35
      10.1  Definitions.....................................................      35
</TABLE>


                                       iii
<PAGE>
                       LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY AGREEMENT

                                       OF

                             ORIGEN FINANCIAL L.L.C.


      This Limited Liability Company Agreement of Origen Financial L.L.C. a
Delaware limited liability company (the "Company"), is made and entered into as
of December 18, 2001, by and among the parties signing this Limited Liability
Company Agreement on the signature page hereto and all other persons who become
members of the Company after the date hereof (the "LLC Agreement"). This LLC
Agreement shall be null and void and of no effect whatsoever absent consummation
of the Transactions (as defined below). Certain capitalized terms used in this
Limited Liability Company Agreement are defined in Section 10 below.


                                    RECITALS

      A.    The Company was organized on June 15, 2001 by filing a Certificate
of Formation with the Delaware Secretary of State.  The Company has not engaged
in any business to date.  The Company is the sole owner of four subsidiary
limited liability companies:  Origen Special Purpose, L.L.C., Origen
Manufactured Home Financial, L.L.C. and Origen Special Purpose II, L.L.C., each
organized in Delaware, and Origen Insurance Agency, L.L.C., organized in
Virginia (collectively, the "Company Subsidiaries").

      B.    The Original Member has been the sole member of the Company since
the date the Company was organized but has heretofore not contributed any assets
or services to the Company.

      C.    Subject to and in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.1,
pursuant to the Mergers and in accordance with Section 721 of the Code, the
Original Member will transfer certain assets and liabilities to the Company and
concurrent therewith the Original Member will admit certain new members to the
Company (collectively, the "Transactions").

      D.    The parties hereto desire to set forth in this Limited Liability
Company Agreement their entire agreement and understanding with respect to the
constitution and operation of the Company after the date hereof.

                                    COVENANTS

      NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the Recitals set forth above
and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are
acknowledged, the parties to this Limited Liability Company Agreement agree as
follows:
<PAGE>
1.    CONTINUATION AND PURPOSE

      1.1   CONTINUATION. The parties hereto agree to continue the Company as a
            limited liability company under and pursuant to the provisions of
            the Delaware Act and agree that the rights, duties and liabilities
            of the Members and the Board of Managers shall be as provided in the
            Delaware Act, except as otherwise provided herein. The Original
            Member represents that the Company has not heretofore engaged in any
            business.

      1.2   PURPOSE. The Company was organized for the purpose of engaging in
            any activity within the purposes for which limited liability
            companies may be formed under the Delaware Act, including, without
            limitation, the following:

            (a)   originating and underwriting manufactured home loans;

            (b)   brokering, selling or securitizing manufactured home loans
                  originated by the Company;

            (c)   servicing manufactured home loans, including processing
                  payments and remitting them to investors as required under the
                  relevant servicing contracts and repossessing and reselling
                  homes on defaulted contracts; and

            (d)   doing any and all things incidental to any of the activities
                  described above.

      1.3   NAME. The name of the Company shall be Origen Financial L.L.C. The
            Company may conduct its business under one or more assumed names, as
            the Board of Managers deems appropriate in its sole discretion.

      1.4   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. The Company's principal place of
            business shall be located at 260 East Brown Street, Suite 200,
            Birmingham, Michigan 48009. The Company may establish additional
            places of business, and may change the location of its principal
            place of business or any additional place of business, as the Board
            of Managers deems appropriate in its sole discretion.

      1.5   REGISTERED OFFICE AND RESIDENT AGENT. The Company's registered
            office shall be 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County,
            Delaware 19801, and its resident agent at the registered office
            shall be The Corporation Trust Company. The Board of Managers shall
            have the authority to change either the Company's registered office
            or its resident agent or both, as the Board of Managers deems
            appropriate in its sole discretion. If the Company's resident agent
            resigns, the Board of Managers shall promptly appoint a successor
            resident agent and designate a successor registered office. The
            Board of Managers shall have the authority to amend the Certificate
            of Formation (in the manner provided in Section 18 - 202 of the
            Delaware Act) to reflect any change in the Company's registered
            office or resident agent, no matter how effected.


                                      -2-
<PAGE>
      1.6   DURATION. Unless its duration is limited in the Certificate of
            Formation, the Company shall exist perpetually, subject to earlier
            dissolution in accordance with either the other provisions of this
            Limited Liability Company Agreement or the provisions of the
            Delaware Act.

2.    CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS, UNITS AND RELATED MATTERS

      2.1   CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS. On the Effective Date, the Original Member
            will cause the Mergers to occur pursuant to the Merger Agreement,
            which will vest ownership of all operations of Origen Financial
            Inc., Origen Special Holdings Corporation, Origen Manufactured Home
            Financial, Inc. and Origen Insurance Agency, Inc. (collectively, the
            "Origen Corporations") in the Company and the Company Subsidiaries.
            The parties hereto contemplate that as a result of the Mergers, all
            operating assets of Origen Financial Inc. and its subsidiaries will
            be transferred to the Company and the Company Subsidiaries. If
            licensing restrictions or other similar regulations delay
            consummation of the Mergers, then on the Effective Date the Origen
            Corporations shall contribute to the Company (and the Company
            Subsidiaries), to the extent permitted, all assets and liabilities,
            and shall effectuate, as soon as practicable thereafter, the
            Mergers. In consideration for the Original Member's contributions,
            it shall be issued the number of Series A Units set forth opposite
            the Original Member's name on Exhibit A, and the parties hereto
            agree that the initial Capital Account of the Original Member shall
            be zero ($0.00). Also on the Effective Date, each other Member shall
            make, in the form of cash, the initial Capital Contribution and
            shall be issued the number of Series B or Series C Units set forth
            opposite its name on Exhibit A hereto. The parties hereto
            contemplate that all such transfers will be in accordance with
            Section 721 of the Code.

      2.2   UNITS. The Members' respective interests in the governance, capital,
            Profits, Losses and distributions of the Company are represented by
            "Units." Units include Series A, Series B, Series C and Series D
            Units. The aggregate Units of all Members represent 100% of the
            total interest of Members in the votes, capital, Profits, Losses and
            distributions of the Company. Series C Units have no voting rights.
            Series D Units shall be issued solely to Key Employees as described
            in Section 6.4(c). As of the Effective Date, the total number of
            Units held by each of the Members are set forth in Exhibit A.

      2.3   ADDITIONAL CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS.

            (a)   Additional Capital Calls.  If the Board of Managers
                  determines, in its sole and absolute discretion, at any time
                  or from time to time, that the Company requires additional
                  capital ("Additional Capital"), in the form of Capital
                  Contributions other than the Members' initial Capital
                  Contributions set forth on Exhibit A, in order to enable the
                  Company to pay its operating expenses, to meet its
                  obligations in a timely fashion, to


                                      -3-
<PAGE>
                  maintain sufficient working capital, to make any other
                  expenditures necessary or desirable to carry out its
                  objectives or for any other purpose whatsoever, the Board of
                  Managers, on behalf of the Company, shall call for such
                  Additional Capital by written notice to all Members. Each
                  Member shall be required to deliver his, her or its Share
                  (defined below) of such Additional Capital to the Company on
                  or before the fifteenth (15th) day after the date on which
                  such notice was given, and on the receipt of such Share, each
                  Member's Capital Account shall be increased by the amount of
                  his, her or its Share. Each Member's "Share" of the Additional
                  Capital shall equal the product of the Additional Capital and
                  such Member's ownership percentage of outstanding Units,
                  calculated as a fraction, the numerator of which is the number
                  of such Member's Units and the denominator of which is the
                  total number of Units outstanding at the time of the capital
                  call.

            (b)   Member's Failure to Make Additional Contribution --
                  Dilution.  If any Member (a "Defaulting Member") fails to
                  advance all or any portion of his, her or its Share of any
                  Additional Capital called for by the Company within the
                  15-day time period described in Section 2.3(a) above, any of
                  the other Members (each a "Contributing Member") may, but are
                  not obligated to, contribute all or a portion of the amount
                  which such Defaulting Member failed to advance.  In such
                  event, and following such contributions, the number of Units
                  of each Member shall be adjusted as follows:

                  (i)   The adjusted number of Units held by each Contributing
                        Member shall be equal to a percentage of the total
                        number of Units held by all Members, with such
                        percentage being equal to a percentage which is the
                        equivalent of the fraction, the numerator of which is
                        the Capital Account balance of such Contributing
                        Member, subsequent to contribution of the Additional
                        Capital and the denominator of which is the aggregate
                        of all Member Capital Account balances, subsequent to
                        contribution of the Additional Capital; provided,
                        however, that all Capital Accounts shall first be
                        adjusted in accordance with (ii) of the definition of
                        Gross Asset Value in Section 10.1(s) hereof; and
                        provided further, solely for purposes of this Section
                        2.3(b), the initial Capital Account of the Original
                        Member shall be deemed to equal $10 million; and

                  (ii)  The adjusted number of Units of each Defaulting Member
                        shall be equal to a percentage of the total number of
                        Units held by all Members, with such percentage being
                        equal to a percentage which is the equivalent of the
                        fraction, the numerator of which is the Capital Account
                        balance of such Defaulting Member, subsequent


                                      -4-
<PAGE>
                        to contribution of the Additional Capital and the
                        denominator of which is the aggregate of all Member
                        Capital Account balances, subsequent to contribution of
                        the Additional Capital; provided, however, that all
                        Capital Accounts shall first be adjusted in accordance
                        with (ii) of the definition of Gross Asset Value in
                        Section 10.1(s) hereof; and provided further, solely for
                        purposes of this Section 2.3(b), the initial Capital
                        Account of the Original Member shall be deemed to equal
                        $10 million.

                  In the event that more than one Member desires to contribute a
                  Defaulting Member's Share of Additional Capital, such Members
                  may do so pro rata, in accordance with their relative current
                  Unit holdings.

      2.4   CONTRIBUTION RETURNS. Except as otherwise provided in this Limited
            Liability Company Agreement, a Member is not entitled to the return
            of any part of the Member's Capital Contributions or to be paid
            interest in respect of either the Member's Capital Account or
            Capital Contributions. Except as provided herein, an unpaid Capital
            Contribution is not a liability of the Company or of any Member.

      2.5   NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES. The obligations undertaken by the
            Members in this Limited Liability Company Agreement, including their
            obligations, if any, to make Capital Contributions, loans and
            reimbursements, are for the benefit of the Company and the Members
            only, and neither any creditor of the Company or of any Member, nor
            any other party (other than a successor in interest to the Company
            or the Members), shall have the right to rely on or enforce the
            provisions of this Limited Liability Company Agreement as a
            third-party beneficiary or otherwise. Without limiting the
            generality of the foregoing, the Board of Managers, to the extent
            provided in Section 2.3 above only, shall have the sole discretion
            whether to make capital calls, and neither any creditor of the
            Company or of any Member, nor any other party, may compel a capital
            call, regardless of whether the Company's assets are sufficient to
            provide for its liabilities. In addition, the discretions granted to
            the Board of Managers and the Members in this Limited Liability
            Company Agreement are personal to them, and no receiver, trustee or
            liquidator of the Company's business shall the right or power to
            exercise any such discretions.

3.    PROFITS, LOSSES AND DISTRIBUTIONS

      3.1   ALLOCATION OF PROFITS AND LOSSES. For financial accounting purposes
            exclusively, Profits and Losses of the Company shall be allocated
            proportionately among the Members, in accordance with their
            percentage ownership of Units (regardless of the Series).

      3.2   TAX ALLOCATIONS.


                                      -5-
<PAGE>
            (a)   Taxable Income.  Subject to Sections 3.2(c), 3.3 and 3.4,
                  Company income or gain, as computed for Federal income tax
                  purposes, shall be allocated:

                  (i)   First, to the Members pro rata, in proportion to, and
                        to the extent of, any tax losses previously allocated
                        to them pursuant to Section 3.2(b)(iv) below;

                  (ii)  Next, to the holders of Series B, C and D Units pro
                        rata, in proportion to, and to the extent of, any tax
                        losses previously allocated to them pursuant to Section
                        3.2(b)(iii) below; and

                  (iii) Then, to the Original Member, to the extent of
                        $10,000,000; and

                  (iv)  Finally, to the Members pro rata, in proportion to
                        their respective Unit holdings.

            (b)   Tax Losses. Subject to Sections 3.2(c), 3.3 and 3.4, Company
                  losses, as computed for federal income tax purposes, shall be
                  allocated:

                  (i)   First, to the Members pro rata, in proportion to, and to
                        the extent of, any taxable income or gain previously
                        allocated to them pursuant to Section 3.2(a)(iv) above;

                  (ii)  Next, to the Original Member, to the extent of taxable
                        income or gain previously allocated to it pursuant to
                        Section 3.2(a)(iii) above;

                  (iii) Then, to the holders of Series B, C and D Units,
                        pro-rata, in proportion to, and to the extent of, their
                        Net Capital Contributions; and

                  (iv)  Finally, to the Members pro rata, in proportion to
                        their percentage ownership of Units.

            (c)   Section 704(c) Allocations.  Notwithstanding Sections 3.2(a)
                  and (b) above, income, gain, loss, and deduction with respect
                  to any property contributed to the capital of the Company
                  will, solely for tax purposes, in accordance with Code
                  Section 704(c) and the related Treasury Regulations, be
                  allocated among the Members so as to take account of any
                  variation between the adjusted basis to the Company of the
                  property for Federal income tax purposes and the initial
                  Gross Asset Value of the property (computed in accordance
                  with subparagraph (i) of the definition of Gross Asset Value)
                  in the manner described in Treasury Regulations at Section
                  1.704-3(d), using the remedial method of allocation.  The
                  parties hereto acknowledge that the Original Member has made
                  its initial Capital Contribution in the form of


                                      -6-
<PAGE>
                  property with an aggregate fair market value of zero ($0.00)
                  dollars; notwithstanding, the Board of Managers in the
                  exercise of its reasonable discretion, in accordance with the
                  Treasury Regulations, shall determine the amount of
                  built-in-gain or loss of each particular asset contributed by
                  the Original Member. If the Gross Asset Value of any Company
                  asset is adjusted under subparagraph (ii) of the definition of
                  Gross Asset Value, subsequent allocations of income, gain,
                  loss, and deduction with respect to that asset will also take
                  account of any variation between the adjusted basis of the
                  asset for federal income tax purposes and its Gross Asset
                  Value in the manner described in Treasury Regulations at
                  Section 1.704-3(d), using the remedial method of allocation.
                  Allocations under this Section 3.2(c) are solely for purposes
                  of Federal, state and local taxes and will not affect, or in
                  any way be taken into account in computing, but only to the
                  extent of such built-in gain (or loss), any Member's Capital
                  Account or other items or distributions under any provision of
                  this Limited Liability Company Agreement.

      3.3   SPECIAL ALLOCATIONS.  Special allocations of items of income, gain,
            loss, deduction and credit shall be made in the following order and
            priority:

            (a)   Company Minimum Gain Chargeback.  Notwithstanding any other
                  provision of this Limited Liability Company Agreement, if
                  there is a net decrease in Company Minimum Gain during any
                  taxable year or other period for which allocations are made,
                  and such decrease is not the result of any of the
                  circumstances set forth in Treasury Regulations Sections
                  1.704-2(f)(2) or 1.704-2(f)(3), then each Member will be
                  specially allocated items of Company income and gain for that
                  period (and, if necessary, subsequent periods) to the extent
                  of an amount equal to such Member's Share of the Net Decrease
                  in Company Minimum Gain.  This Section 3.3(a) is intended to
                  comply with the minimum gain chargeback requirement of
                  Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-2(f)(1) and shall be
                  interpreted consistently therewith.

            (b)   Member Nonrecourse Debt Minimum Gain Chargeback.
                  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Limited Liability
                  Company Agreement, except Section 3.3(a), if there is a net
                  decrease in Member Nonrecourse Debt Minimum Gain with respect
                  to a Member Nonrecourse Debt during any taxable year or other
                  period for which allocations are made, and such decrease is
                  not the result of one of the circumstances described in the
                  third sentence of Treasury Regulations Section
                  1.704-(2)(i)(4), then each Member will be specifically
                  allocated items of Company income and gain for such year or
                  other period (and, if necessary, subsequent periods) to the
                  extent of an amount equal to such Member's Share of the Net
                  Decrease in Member Nonrecourse Debt Minimum Gain.  This
                  Section 3.3(b) is intended


                                      -7-
<PAGE>
                  to comply with the minimum gain chargeback requirement of
                  Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(4) and shall be
                  interpreted consistently therewith.

            (c)   Qualified Income Offset.  A Member who unexpectedly receives
                  any adjustment, allocation or distribution described in
                  Treasury Regulations Sections 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), (5),
                  or (6) will be specially allocated items of Company income
                  and gain (including gross income) in an amount and manner
                  sufficient to eliminate, to the extent required by the
                  Treasury Regulations, the Adjusted Capital Account Deficit of
                  the Member as quickly as possible, provided that an
                  allocation pursuant to this Section 3.3(c) will be made if
                  and only to the extent that such Member would have an
                  Adjusted Capital Account Deficit after all other allocations
                  provided for in this Article 3 have been tentatively made as
                  if this Section 3.3(c) were not in the Limited Liability
                  Company Agreement.

            (d)   Nonrecourse Deductions. Company Nonrecourse Deductions for any
                  taxable year or other period for which allocations are made
                  will be allocated among the Members in proportion to their
                  percentage ownership of Units.

            (e)   Member Nonrecourse Deductions. In accordance with Treasury
                  Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(1), any Member Nonrecourse
                  Deductions for any taxable year or other period for which
                  allocations are made will be allocated to the Member that
                  bears the economic risk of loss with respect to the Member
                  Nonrecourse Debt to which the Member Nonrecourse Deductions
                  are attributable.

      3.4   CURATIVE ALLOCATIONS. The allocations set forth in Section 3.3 are
            intended to comply with certain requirements of Treasury Regulations
            Sections 1.704-1 and 1.704-2, but may not be consistent with the
            manner in which the Members intend to share the economic benefits of
            the Company. To insure that Members' economic arrangements are not
            distorted, the Board of Managers shall have sole discretion to
            request a waiver of the minimum gain chargeback and member
            nonrecourse debt minimum gain chargeback rules, pursuant to Treasury
            Regulations Sections 1.704-2(f)(4) and 1.704-2(i)(4), respectively.
            In addition, the Board of Managers is authorized to divide
            allocations of income, loss, deduction and credit among the Members
            so as to prevent the allocations in Section 3.3 from distorting the
            manner in which Company distributions would be divided among the
            Members pursuant to this Article 3 but for application of Section
            3.3. The Board of Managers will have discretion to accomplish this
            result in any reasonable manner that is consistent with Code Section
            704 and the Treasury Regulations.

      3.5   TAX DISTRIBUTIONS. On or before March 15 of each year, the Board of
            Managers shall cause the Company to distribute to each Member, to
            the extent of available


                                      -8-
<PAGE>
            Excess Cash, an amount equal to such Member's Tax Distribution
            computed with respect to the previous calendar year and, to the
            extent Tax Distributions for any prior year were not made in full,
            the amount of such deficiency. Whenever feasible, the Company shall
            estimate the amount of the Tax Distributions, and proportionately
            distribute the same concurrently with the Members' need to make
            estimated tax payments.

      3.6   DISTRIBUTIONS OF EXCESS CASH. Subject to Section 8.2 hereof with
            respect to liquidating distributions, and subsequent to the payment
            of all accrued but unpaid Tax Distributions, the Board of Managers
            may distribute the Excess Cash to the Members, at such times as the
            Board of Managers may determine in its sole discretion, provided
            that such distributions are in the following priority:

            (a)   First, to the Series B, C and D Members, pro-rata in
                  proportion to and to the extent of their Net Capital
                  Contributions;

            (b)   Next, to the Original Member, to the extent of the balance in
                  its Capital Account, provided, however, that such amount shall
                  in no event exceed $10,000,000; and

            (c)   Finally, to the Members pro-rata, in proportion to the
                  percentage ownership of their Units.

      3.7   LIMITATIONS ON DISTRIBUTIONS. Distributions, whether pursuant to
            Sections 3.5 or 3.6 above, may be made from any source; provided
            they do not violate any agreement that the Company has with any of
            its creditors or any provision of the Delaware Act. In the event
            that any Tax Distributions to be made in accordance with Section 3.5
            above would violate any such agreement or provision, or would cause
            any of such limitations to occur, to the extent permitted, the Board
            of Managers shall make such distributions pro rata to the Members,
            in accordance with the respective Tax Distributions due them.

4.    MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY; RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF THE MANAGER

      4.1   MANAGEMENT BY BOARD OF MANAGERS; NUMBER. The Company shall be
            managed by a Board of Managers, which shall consist of no less than
            three (3) nor more than five (5) individuals, none of whom are
            required to be Members. Members of the Board shall have five (5)
            votes. The Members owning Series A Units shall have the right to
            appoint up to two members of the Board of Managers and shall control
            two (2) of the Board's five (5) votes. Members owning Series B
            Units, shall have the right acting by majority of their Series B
            Unit Holdings to appoint up to two members of the Board of Managers
            and shall control two (2) of the Board's five (5) votes. The fifth
            vote of the Board of Managers shall be held by a person, subject to
            Section 4.5(f), jointly selected by the other four managers;


                                      -9-
<PAGE>
            provided, however, that such person is not an Affiliate of either
            the Original Member, Sun Communities, Inc. or Sun Communities
            Operating Limited Partnership (the "Independent Manager").
            Notwithstanding the above, upon an assignment of a majority of
            Series B Units pursuant to Section 6.2(c), the right of the Series B
            Unit holders to appoint up to two members of the Board of Managers
            and control two Board votes, shall be transferred to the Independent
            Manager. The initial member of the Board of Managers appointed by
            the Members owning Series A Units shall be Ronald A. Klein (2
            votes). The initial member of the Board of Managers appointed by the
            Members owning Series B Units shall be Gary A. Shiffman (2 votes).

      4.2   POWER AND AUTHORITY. The Board of Managers shall have full and
            complete power, authority and discretion to manage and control the
            Company and its business and to make all incidental decisions,
            subject only to Section 5.1 below and any power and authority which
            this Limited Liability Company Agreement or the Delaware Act
            expressly vests in the Members or any number of them. Without
            limiting the generality of the immediately preceding sentence, but
            subject to Section 5.1 below and any power and authority which this
            Limited Liability Company Agreement or the Delaware Act expressly
            vests in the Members or any number of them, the Board of Managers
            shall have the power, authority and discretion, for and on behalf of
            the Company:

            (a)   To borrow money, in the ordinary course of the Company's
                  business of underwriting manufactured home loans, and to
                  secure such loans by security interests in or liens or other
                  encumbrances on, property of the Company;

            (b)   To broker, sell or securitize manufactured home loans and
                  commercial loans originated or held by the Company;

            (c)   To purchase any interest in any real or personal property, to
                  hold such interest, if appropriate, for investment and
                  appreciation and to ultimately sell, transfer, assign, convey,
                  exchange or otherwise dispose of all or any portion of such
                  interest;

            (d)   To make, in the ordinary course of the Company's business,
                  capital expenditures for the acquisition of or addition to any
                  machinery, equipment, motor vehicles, fixtures, furniture or
                  other property;

            (e)   To sell, transfer, assign, convey, exchange or otherwise
                  dispose of, in the ordinary course of the Company's business,
                  any real or personal property of the Company, or any interest
                  in such property;


                                      -10-
<PAGE>
            (f)   To lease, in the ordinary course of the Company's business,
                  real or personal property, whether the term of such leases (or
                  any renewals of such leases) extend beyond the Company's
                  duration;

            (g)   To demand, sue for, settle, collect, receive and give releases
                  and discharges for all moneys, debts, accounts, interest,
                  dividends, securities and other tangible or intangible
                  personal or real property which now is due or belongs, or in
                  the future shall be due or belong, to the Company;

            (h)   To purchase, in the ordinary course of the Company's business,
                  any interest in any real or personal property for use in
                  connection with the Company's business and, to the extent such
                  purchases are for supplies to be used in connection with the
                  Company's business, to incur unsecured debts owed to the
                  Company's vendors;

            (i)   To settle and pay the Company's debts and obligations;

            (j)   To engage, employ and dismiss employees, independent
                  contractors, attorneys, accountants and other persons hired to
                  perform management, administrative, sales or other services
                  for and on behalf of the Company, and to define such persons'
                  respective duties and establish their compensation or
                  remuneration;

            (k)   To make temporary advances to employees, representatives or
                  agents of the Company for business travel and other similar
                  purposes in the ordinary course of the Company's business;

            (l)   To procure and maintain insurance policies for the protection
                  of or for any purpose beneficial to the Company;

            (m)   To purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of the Board of
                  Managers against any liability or expense asserted against or
                  incurred by the members of the Board in any such capacity or
                  arising out of their status as members of the Board of
                  Managers, whether or not the Company has or could indemnify
                  them against such liability or expense;

            (n)   To open, maintain, deposit into and withdraw from bank
                  accounts, and, if desired, to designate other persons to
                  execute checks or drafts on such accounts;

            (o)   To invest Company funds temporarily in (by way of example but
                  not limitation) time deposits, short-term governmental
                  obligations, commercial paper or other investments;


                                      -11-
<PAGE>
            (p)   To commence, prosecute and defend all actions and other
                  proceedings affecting the Company in any way;

            (q)   To negotiate, prepare, modify, execute, deliver and amend any
                  and all contracts, agreements and documents to which the
                  Company is or proposes to become a party, including, without
                  limitation, loan agreements, notes, mortgages, security
                  agreements and other loan documents and instruments;

            (r)   Generally, to carry on the Company's business in the ordinary
                  course, to manage the Company's day-to-day operations and to
                  carry out the development and expansion of the Company and its
                  business in the ordinary course;

            (s)   To do such other acts as have been authorized by the
                  affirmative vote of the Members, taken in accordance with
                  Section 5.1 below (unless a greater percentage is specifically
                  required pursuant to the Delaware Act, the Certificate of
                  Formation or this Limited Liability Company Agreement);

            (t)   To make capital calls as provided in Section 2.3 hereof and
                  to sell and determine the price for additional Units;

            (u)   To determine, by unanimous vote of Managers other than those
                  appointed by the Original Member, whether the Company should
                  consummate a Capital Event;

            (v)   To make loans to the Original Member, on such terms and
                  conditions as determined by Managers other than those persons
                  appointed by the Original Member, for the purpose of allowing
                  Bingham to fund reasonable expenses necessary to preserve its
                  status as a public company;

             (w)  To exercise all rights and powers, and to perform all duties
                  and obligations, which the Company possesses, or to which it
                  is subject, in connection with each of the Company
                  Subsidiaries and its interest therein.

            (x)   In the event the Company secures mezzanine financing
                  exceeding $10 million, to determine whether, if permitted by
                  the terms of the debt instruments to which the Company is
                  then a party, to cause the Company to distribute to the
                  Members holding Series B and Series C Units, pro-rata in
                  proportion to their respective ownership of such Units
                  (regardless of Series), as a return of capital, the proceeds
                  of such mezzanine financing in excess of $10 million, but in
                  no event greater than $40 million, (which  distribution shall
                  in no event reduce the number of Series B or Series C Units
                  owned by such holders); provided, however, that such
                  determination


                                      -12-
<PAGE>
            shall be made unanimously by the Board of Managers other than those
            appointed by the Original Member; and

            (y)   To negotiate, prepare, modify, change, execute, deliver and,
                  if appropriate, file or record any and all documents,
                  agreements, instruments and papers, and to do and perform any
                  and all acts and deeds, which are or become necessary,
                  proper, convenient or desirable in connection with or in
                  furtherance of any of the powers enumerated above or in order
                  to effectuate or carry out the Company's purpose, as
                  described in Section 1.2 above.

      4.3   MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF MANAGERS; VOTING REQUIREMENTS; ACTIONS BY
            WRITTEN CONSENT.

            (a)   Notice of Meeting.  Any member of the Board of Managers may
                  call a meeting of the Board by giving written notice to each
                  member specifying the date (which may not be more than three
                  (3) business days after the notice is given), time, place and
                  purpose of such meeting.  Unless all of the members of the
                  Board agree otherwise, all meetings shall be held in the
                  State of Michigan at a place reasonably convenient to the
                  members.

            (b)   Attendance. A member of the Board of Managers may participate
                  in a meeting by conference telephone or similar
                  communications equipment which enables all persons
                  participating in the meeting to hear each other, and such
                  participation shall constitute attendance at such meeting.
                  At each meeting of the Board, the presence in person or by
                  telephone, as appropriate, of a majority of the five Board
                  votes shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the
                  transaction of business; provided, however, that the
                  Independent Manager and at least one of the votes held by the
                  Board member(s) appointed by the holders of Series B Units
                  (or their successors) are among those votes present.  A
                  member may not attend a Board meeting by way of proxy.  A
                  member's attendance at a meeting constitutes waiver of (i)
                  notice of the meeting, unless attendance is for the sole
                  purpose, announced at the beginning of the meeting, of
                  objecting to the transaction of any business because the
                  meeting was not called or convened properly, and (ii)
                  objection to any action taken or consideration of any matter
                  at the meeting which is not within the purposes described in
                  the notice of the meeting, unless the member objects to such
                  action or consideration when it is first presented at the
                  meeting.  Regardless of the number of members in attendance
                  at a meeting, any action taken by the Board of Managers at
                  such meeting shall be effective, provided that such action
                  was taken in conformity with the other provisions of this
                  Limited Liability Company Agreement and was approved in
                  accordance with Section 4.3(c) below.


                                      -13-
<PAGE>
            (c)   Voting Requirements; Action by Written Consent.  Unless
                  otherwise noted in this Limited Liability Company Agreement,
                  consent or approval of the Board shall mean the affirmative
                  vote of a majority of the five Board votes present in person
                  or by telephone, as appropriate, and voting at a duly held
                  meeting of the Board at which a quorum is present.  Voting
                  shall be by voice unless a Board of Managers requests a
                  ballot, in which event voting shall be by written ballot.
                  Each ballot shall be signed by the member who cast it, and
                  shall be preserved with the minutes of the meeting.  Any
                  approval, consent, vote or other action of the Board of
                  Managers required or contemplated by this Limited Liability
                  Company Agreement or the Delaware Act may be taken without a
                  meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a
                  consent or consents in writing, setting forth the approval,
                  consent, vote or action so taken is signed by members of the
                  Board representing all five (5) Board votes.

            (d)   Miscellaneous Matters. A meeting of the Board of Managers may
                  be adjourned to another time and place by the affirmative
                  vote of the votes in attendance.  If a meeting is adjourned
                  to another day, the members in attendance at the meeting
                  shall use reasonable efforts to inform the other members of
                  the Board of the date, time and place on and at which the
                  meeting will reconvene, and if such date is more than five
                  (5) days after the date of the meeting, shall notify the
                  other members of such date, time and place.

      4.4   STANDARD OF CARE; LIABILITY; INDEMNIFICATION; CONFIDENTIALITY.

            (a)   Standard of Care.  Each member of the Board of Managers shall
                  discharge his duties in good faith, with the care that an
                  ordinarily prudent person in a like position would exercise
                  under similar circumstances, and in a manner he reasonably
                  believes is in the best interests of the Company and its
                  Members.  In discharging his duties, a member may rely on
                  information, opinions, reports or statements, including, but
                  not necessarily limited to, financial statements or other
                  financial data, prepared or presented by (i) one or more
                  other members of the Board, Members or employees of the
                  Company whom the member in question reasonably believes is
                  reliable and competent with respect to the matter prepared or
                  presented, or (ii) legal counsel, public accountants,
                  engineers or other persons as to matters the member in
                  question reasonably believes are within such person's
                  professional or expert competency; provided that the member
                  in question does not have knowledge concerning the matter in
                  question which makes such reliance unwarranted.


                                      -14-
<PAGE>
            (b)   Liability.

                  (i)   Each member of the Board shall be liable solely to the
                        Company and, derivatively, to its Members for the
                        member's gross negligence or willful misconduct.  A
                        Board member's taking of any action or failure to take
                        any action, or a Board member's errors in judgment, the
                        effect of which may cause or result in loss or damage
                        to the Company, if done pursuant to the provisions of
                        the Delaware Act, the Certificate of Formation and this
                        Limited Liability Company Agreement, shall be presumed
                        not to constitute gross negligence or willful
                        misconduct on the part of such member.

                  (ii)  The Members shall look solely to the Company's property
                        for the return of their Capital Contributions and if the
                        Company's property remaining after payment or discharge
                        of the Company's debts and liabilities is insufficient
                        to return such Capital Contributions, no Member shall
                        have recourse against the members of the Board of
                        Managers, except as provided in Section 4.4(b)(i) above,
                        or any other Member.

            (c)   Indemnification.  The Company shall indemnify, defend and
                  hold harmless each member of the Board of Managers (and, if
                  applicable, its officers, directors, shareholders, general or
                  limited partners, members, employees, agents, successors and
                  assigns) from and against any and all losses, damages,
                  liabilities, claims, demands, obligations, fines, penalties,
                  expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys
                  engaged by a member of the Board of Managers in defense of
                  any act or omission), judgments or amounts paid in settlement
                  by such member by reason of any act performed, or omitted to
                  be performed, by him in connection with the Company's
                  business or in furtherance of the Company's interests, or in
                  connection with any proceeding to which the Board member is a
                  party or is threatened to be made a party because he is or
                  was a Board member.  The provisions of this Section 4.4(c),
                  however, shall not relieve a Board member of any liability
                  which he may have (i) pursuant to Section 4.4(b) above for
                  gross negligence or willful misconduct, (ii) in connection
                  with the receipt of a financial benefit to which the member
                  is not entitled, (iii) for knowingly making a distribution
                  which violates Section 18-607(a) of the Delaware Act, or (iv)
                  in connection with a knowing violation of law, and no Board
                  member shall be entitled to indemnification with respect to
                  any such matters.  The indemnification afforded pursuant to
                  this Section 4.4(c) shall be limited to the Company's assets,
                  and no Board member shall have a claim against any Member by
                  virtue of this Section 4.4(c), nor


                                      -15-
<PAGE>
                  shall this Section 4.4(c) be construed so as to impose any
                  obligation on any Member to make a Capital Contribution.

            (d)   Confidentiality.  Each member of the Board of Managers shall
                  deal in confidence with all matters involving the Company
                  until such time as there has been general public disclosure
                  of such matters.  No member of the Board of Managers shall
                  disclose or use any Confidential Information except for the
                  direct or indirect benefit of the Company.  Each member of
                  the Board of Managers acknowledges that the disclosure of
                  Confidential Information by the member or a breach of the
                  provisions of this Section 4.4(d) will give rise to
                  irreparable injury to the Company, which injury could not be
                  adequately compensated for in damages.  Accordingly, the
                  Company may seek and obtain injunctive relief against any
                  breach or threatened breach of the member's agreements and
                  undertakings contained in this Section 4.4(d) in addition to
                  any other legal remedies which may be available to the
                  Company.

      4.5   TENURE; RESIGNATION; REMOVAL; VACANCIES.

            (a)   Tenure. Subject to Section 4.5(f), each person who has been
                  appointed or elected as a Board member shall serve for a term
                  of one year, unless he is sooner removed by the Members who
                  appointed him or resigns or otherwise vacates the position.

            (b)   Annual Appointment. Subject to Section 4.5(f), the members of
                  the Board of Managers shall be appointed annually in
                  accordance with the provisions of Section 4.1 above.

            (c)   Resignation.  Any Board member may resign at any time by
                  giving written notice to the other Board members.  Such
                  resignation shall be effective as of the giving of the notice
                  or at such later time, if any, as may be specified in the
                  notice.  Unless otherwise specified in the notice, acceptance
                  of the member's resignation by the Board of Managers shall
                  not be necessary to make it effective.  The resignation of a
                  Board member who is also a Member shall not affect such
                  Member's rights as a Member and shall not constitute the
                  withdrawal of such Member as a Member.

            (d)   Removal. Subject to Section 4.5(f), any Board member may be
                  removed, at any time, with or without cause, by the Member(s)
                  (or their successors) who appointed him. The removal of a
                  Board member who is also a Member shall not affect such
                  Member's rights as a Member and shall not constitute the
                  withdrawal of such Member as a Member.

            (e)   Vacancies. Subject to Section 4.5(f), any vacancy on the
                  Board occurring as the result of a Board member's
                  resignation, removal, death, disability or


                                      -16-
<PAGE>
                  any other reason whatsoever may be filled by the Member(s) (or
                  their successors) who appointed the member who vacated his
                  position. Each person who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
                  shall hold such office until such time as his successor shall
                  have been duly appointed in accordance with this Limited
                  Liability Company Agreement and shall have qualified, or until
                  he resigns, is removed or otherwise vacates the position.

            (f)   Independent Manager.  The Independent Manager shall serve as
                  a permanent member of the Board of Managers, possessing such
                  votes as is provided herein, subject only to voluntary
                  resignation, death, or termination for cause, as determined
                  by the unanimous vote of all other members of the Board of
                  Managers.  For the purposes of this Section 4.5(f), the term
                  "cause" means (i) any action of such Independent Manager (or
                  any failure to act) which involves fraud or the
                  misappropriation of Company funds or which, if generally
                  known, would have a material adverse effect on the Company,
                  its business or its reputation; (ii) the refusal or repeated
                  failure of the Independent Manager in any material manner, to
                  perform satisfactorily all of the material duties required of
                  him under this Operating Agreement; (iii) any breach of the
                  Independent Manager's fiduciary duties to the Company or the
                  Members; (iv) any breach by the Independent Manager of any
                  material provision of this Agreement which is not cured
                  within thirty (30) days after written demand by any Member;
                  (v) the mental or physical incapacity of the Independent
                  Manager to discharge his duties and obligations under this
                  Operating Agreement which continues for a continuous period
                  of at least one hundred eighty (180) days or which is likely
                  to be permanent or indefinite in duration.  The Independent
                  Manager shall have the exclusive right to appoint three (3)
                  successors to the Board, each of whom shall serve
                  sequentially, by delivering to the Board, at any time,
                  written notice which specifies the identity of the
                  successors.  Each such successor must not be an Affiliate of
                  either the Original Member, Sun Communities, Inc. or Sun
                  Communities Operating Limited Partnership.

      4.6   SELF-DEALING. Any Board member and any Affiliate of any Board member
            may deal with the Company, directly or indirectly, as vendor,
            purchaser, employee, agent or otherwise, if the Board of Managers
            has informed the Members of the material terms of such dealings, and
            such dealings were approved, in advance, by a vote of the Members
            taken in accordance with Section 5.1 below (except that, for the
            purposes of such vote only, the Board member in question, if he is
            also a Member, shall not be entitled to participate and shall not be
            considered a Member). No contract or other act of the Company shall
            be voidable or affected in any manner by the fact that a Board
            member or his Affiliate is directly or indirectly interested in such
            contract or other act apart from his interest as a Board


                                      -17-
<PAGE>
            member, nor shall such Board member or his Affiliate be accountable
            to the Company or the other Members with respect to any profits
            directly or indirectly realized by reason of such contract or other
            act, if such contract or other act was approved in accordance with
            this Section 4.6.

      4.7   DEVOTION OF TIME TO COMPANY. The members of the Board of Managers
            shall not be required to manage the Company as their sole and
            exclusive function, and the Board members may have other business
            interests and may engage in other activities in addition to those
            relating to the Company. Neither the Company nor any Member shall
            have any right, by virtue of this Limited Liability Company
            Agreement, to share or participate in such other interests or
            activities of the Board members or to the income or proceeds derived
            from such interests or activities. The Board of Managers shall incur
            no liability to the Company or to any of the Members as a result of
            engaging in any other interests or activities. The provisions of
            this Section 4.7 shall be subject to those of Section 4.6 above.

      4.8   COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.

            (a)   The Independent Manager shall be entitled to a stipend with
                  respect to all meetings of the Board he or she attends, in an
                  amount customary for such service.  No additional
                  compensation for managing the affairs of the Company shall be
                  provided to any of the members of the Board of Managers.
                  This Section 4.8(a) shall not prohibit, however, the Company
                  from retaining a Board member or his Affiliates to perform
                  services for or supply goods to the Company, and to
                  compensate such Board member or Affiliate for such services
                  or goods, in accordance with Section 4.6 above.

            (b)   Section 4.8(a) above notwithstanding, the Company shall
                  reimburse the members of the Board of Managers for all
                  reasonable costs and expenses incurred by them on behalf of
                  the Company. Such costs and expenses may include, but shall
                  not necessarily be limited to, current and recurring legal and
                  accounting expenses and all costs of negotiating financing
                  relating to the Company's business.

      4.9   OFFICERS.

            (a)   Optional Appointment.  From time to time, the Board of
                  Managers may appoint, and delegate some or all of its
                  responsibilities to, one or more officers for the Company,
                  which may include a President and Chief Executive Officer, a
                  Chief Financial Officer, one or more Vice Presidents, a
                  Secretary, and one or more Assistant Secretaries.  An officer
                  shall be a natural person, and may, but need not, be a Member
                  or a member of the Board of Managers.  One person may hold
                  two or more offices, but in no event shall any officer
                  execute, acknowledge or verify any instrument in more than
                  one capacity.  Officers of the Company shall derive their


                                      -18-
<PAGE>
                  authority only by way of an express grant from the Board or
                  this Limited Liability Company Agreement.  Any provision of
                  this Limited Liability Company Agreement to the contrary
                  notwithstanding, no provision of this Section 4.9 shall be
                  construed so as to require the Board to appoint any officer
                  whatsoever.

            (b)   Tenure. The officers of the Company shall be chosen by the
                  Board of Managers, and each officer shall hold his or her
                  office until his or her successor has been selected by the
                  Board or until his or her earlier resignation, removal or
                  other vacancy.

            (c)   Resignation.  Any officer may resign at any time by giving
                  written notice to the Board.  Such resignation shall be
                  effective as of the giving of the notice or at such later
                  time, if any, as may be specified in the notice.  Unless
                  otherwise specified in the notice, acceptance of an officer's
                  resignation by the Board shall not be necessary to make it
                  effective.  The resignation of an officer who is also a
                  Member or a Board member shall not affect such officer's
                  rights and duties as a Member or a Board member and shall not
                  constitute the withdrawal of such officer as a Member or the
                  resignation of such officer as a Board member.

            (d)   Removal. The Board may remove any officer, at any time, with
                  or without cause. The removal of an officer who is also a
                  Member or a Board member shall not affect such officer's
                  rights and duties as a Member or a Board member and shall not
                  constitute the withdrawal of such officer as a Member or the
                  removal or resignation of such officer as a Board member.

            (e)   Vacancies.  Any vacancy in any officer position occurring as
                  the result of an officer's resignation, removal, death,
                  disability or any other reason whatsoever may be filled by
                  the Board.  Each person who has been selected to fill a
                  vacancy in an officer position shall hold his or her office
                  until his or her successor has been selected by the Board or
                  until his or her earlier resignation, removal or other
                  vacancy.

            (f)   President and Chief Executive Officer.  The President and
                  Chief Executive Officer shall serve as the chief executive
                  officer of the Company and, subject to any and all
                  restrictions placed on the Board, shall have general
                  supervision, direction and control of the Company's business
                  and its day-to-day operations. The President and Chief
                  Executive Officer shall preside at all meetings of the
                  Members.  The President and Chief Executive Officer shall see
                  that all orders and resolutions of the Members and of the
                  Board are effected and shall have and shall exercise and
                  perform such other powers and duties as may from time to time
                  be assigned to him or her by the Board or pursuant to this
                  Limited Liability Company


                                      -19-
<PAGE>
                  Agreement. The initial President and Chief Executive Officer
                  shall be Ronald A. Klein.

            (g)   Chief Financial Officer.  The Chief Financial Officer shall
                  be the principal financial officer of the Company and shall
                  have general supervision of the direction of the finances of
                  the Company.  The Chief Financial Officer shall hold the
                  office of Vice President, shall report to the President and
                  Chief Executive Officer and shall exercise and perform such
                  other powers and duties as may from time to time may be
                  assigned to him or her by the Board or the President and
                  Chief Executive Officer or pursuant to this Limited Liability
                  Company Agreement.  The initial Chief Financial Officer shall
                  be W. Anderson Geater, Jr.

            (h)   Vice Presidents.  In the event of the President and Chief
                  Executive Officer's absence or disability, the Vice President
                  (or, if more than one, the Vice Presidents, in order of their
                  rank as fixed by the Board) shall have and shall exercise and
                  perform all of the powers and duties of the President and
                  Chief Executive Officer, subject to any and all restrictions
                  placed on the President and Chief Executive Officer by the
                  Board or pursuant to this Limited Liability Company
                  Agreement.  The Vice Presidents shall have and shall exercise
                  and perform such other powers and duties as may from time to
                  time may be assigned to them by the Board or the President
                  and Chief Executive Officer or pursuant to this Limited
                  Liability Company Agreement.

            (i)   Secretary.  The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the
                  Board of Managers or the Members and shall keep or cause to
                  be kept, in his or her custody at the Company's principal
                  place of business or at such other place as the Board may
                  order, a book containing all written consents executed by the
                  members of the Board of Managers or the Members and the
                  minutes of all meetings of the Board of Managers or the
                  Members (which minutes shall set forth the place, date, and
                  hour of the meeting, a copy of the notice of the meeting, the
                  names of those present at the meeting and a summary of the
                  proceedings of the meeting).  The Secretary shall have and
                  shall exercise and perform such other powers and duties as
                  may from time to time be assigned to him or her by the Board
                  of Managers or the President and Chief Executive Officer or
                  pursuant to this Limited Liability Company Agreement.

            (j)   Assistant Secretaries.  In the event of the Secretary's
                  absence or disability, any Assistant Secretary shall act as
                  Secretary in all respects and shall have and shall exercise
                  and perform all of the powers and duties of the Secretary,
                  subject to any and all restrictions placed on the Secretary
                  by the Board of Managers or the President and Chief Executive
                  Officer or pursuant to this Limited Liability Company
                  Agreement.  The Assistant


                                      -20-
<PAGE>
                  Secretaries shall have and shall exercise and perform such
                  other powers and duties as may from time to time be assigned
                  to them by the Board of Managers, the President and Chief
                  Executive Officer or the Secretary or pursuant to this Limited
                  Liability Company Agreement.

      4.10  EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS.  All employment agreements for executive
            officers of the Company, or the Company Subsidiaries, shall be
            approved by the Board of Managers.

5.    RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF MEMBERS

      5.1   PARTICIPATION IN MANAGEMENT; VOTING RIGHTS. Members shall have no
            right to take part in, vote on or interfere in any manner with the
            management, conduct or control of the Company or its business, and
            shall have no right or authority whatsoever to act for or on behalf
            of, or to bind, the Company. Notwithstanding the immediately
            preceding sentence, the Members holding Series A, B and D Units
            shall have the right to vote, in accordance with their relative
            ownership of Units, on each of the following matters:

                  (i)   The dissolution of the Company, as provided in Section
                        8.1(b) below;

                  (ii)  An amendment to the Certificate of Formation, or an
                        amendment to this Limited Liability Company Agreement,
                        as provided in Section 9.4 below; and

                  (iii) Any other matters with respect to which this Limited
                        Liability Company Agreement expressly contemplates that
                        the Members will have a right to vote.

                  Unless a greater or lesser vote is expressly required pursuant
                  to any other provision of this Limited Liability Company
                  Agreement, any action which the Members are required or
                  permitted to take, including, without limitation, the matters
                  described above, shall require the affirmative vote of a
                  Majority Interest, and any lesser interest shall have no power
                  whatsoever to take any action for or on behalf of, or to bind,
                  the Company or the Members. Any action by the requisite number
                  of Members, if taken in conformity with this Section 5.1,
                  shall bind all of the Members, and no Member shall have the
                  right to dissent from such action. Any Member may delegate all
                  or any of his, her or its voting rights or powers to another
                  Member (but only in writing), in which case any act of the
                  other Member shall be the act of the delegating Member.


                                      -21-
<PAGE>
      5.2   WITHDRAWAL; EXPULSION.

            (a)   Withdrawal. No Member shall be entitled to withdraw from the
                  Company without first obtaining the approval of the Board of
                  Managers and all of the other Members. No withdrawing Member
                  shall be entitled to a withdrawal distribution unless such a
                  distribution has been approved by all of the Members, which
                  approval may be subject to such conditions, terms or
                  qualifications as the Members deem appropriate.

            (b)   Expulsion.  On the bankruptcy or dissolution of a Member,
                  such Member shall be expelled from the Company and,
                  notwithstanding Section 5.2(a) above, shall be deemed to have
                  withdrawn from the Company; provided, however, that no such
                  Member shall be entitled to a withdrawal distribution unless
                  such a distribution has been approved by all of the Members,
                  which approval may be subject to such conditions, terms or
                  qualifications as the Members deem appropriate.

            (c)   Death. On the death of a Member, such Member shall be deemed
                  to have assigned his or her Units to his or her estate, and
                  his or her estate shall be deemed to have been automatically
                  admitted to the Company as a substitute Member in place of the
                  deceased Member to the extent of the Units assigned, Section
                  6.2(b) below notwithstanding.

      5.3   LIMITED LIABILITY OF MEMBERS. No Member shall be personally liable
            for the Company's acts, debts or obligations, unless the Delaware
            Act or any other provision of this Limited Liability Company
            Agreement expressly provides otherwise.

      5.4   ACCESS TO COMPANY INFORMATION. On written request by a Member, the
            Board of Managers shall provide such Member with a copy of the
            Company's most-recent annual financial statements and federal, state
            and local income tax returns and reports. On reasonable written
            request by a Member, (i) the Board of Managers shall provide such
            Member with information regarding the current state of business and
            financial condition of the Company; (ii) any Member, or his, her or
            its designated representative, may inspect and copy, at such
            Member's request, any of the records maintained pursuant to Section
            9.2 below; and (iii) a Member may obtain such other information
            regarding the Company's affairs or inspect, personally or through a
            representative, during ordinary business hours, such other books and
            records of the Company as is just and reasonable. Any Member may
            call for a formal accounting of the Company's affairs whenever
            circumstances render such request just and reasonable.

      5.5   MEETINGS OF THE MEMBERS; ACTIONS BY WRITTEN CONSENT.


                                      -22-
<PAGE>
            (a)   Notice of Meeting.  The Board of Managers may call, and, at
                  the request of one or more Members holding aggregate voting
                  Units of at least ten percent (10%) of the aggregate voting
                  Units held by all Members, shall call, a meeting of the
                  Members by giving written notice to each Member specifying
                  the date (which may not be less than five (5) business days
                  after the notice is given, and with respect to a notice which
                  has been given at the request of one or more Members, may not
                  be more than fifteen (15) days after the notice is given),
                  time, place and purpose of such meeting.  Unless all of the
                  Members agree otherwise, all meetings shall be held in the
                  State of Michigan at a place reasonably convenient to the
                  Members.

            (b)   Attendance.  A Member may participate in a meeting by
                  conference telephone or similar communications equipment
                  which enables all persons participating in the meeting to
                  hear each other, and such participation shall constitute
                  personal attendance at such meeting.  In addition, a Member
                  may attend and vote by proxy.  A Member's attendance at a
                  meeting constitutes waiver of (i) notice of the meeting,
                  unless attendance is for the sole purpose, announced at the
                  beginning of the meeting, of objecting to the transaction of
                  any business because the meeting was not called or convened
                  properly, and (ii) objection to any action taken or
                  consideration of any matter at the meeting which is not
                  within the purposes described in the notice of the meeting,
                  unless the Member objects to such action or consideration
                  when it is first presented at the meeting.

            (c)   Quorum.  A quorum for the conduct of any business at a
                  meeting of the Members consists of a Majority Interest
                  (determined with reference to Members who are entitled to
                  vote at the meeting), except for purposes of adjournment of
                  such meeting.  If a quorum is not present, the meeting must
                  be adjourned until such time as a quorum can be obtained, or
                  postponed (in which event notice of the rescheduled meeting
                  date must be given).  Regardless of the number of Members in
                  attendance at a meeting (so long as a quorum is present), any
                  action taken by the Members at such meeting shall be
                  effective, provided that such action was taken in conformity
                  with the other provisions of this Limited Liability Company
                  Agreement.

            (d)   Voting Requirements. Only those persons who were Members at
                  the close of business on the last business day prior to the
                  date of the meeting shall be entitled to vote at a meeting of
                  the Members. Voting shall be by voice unless a Member requests
                  a ballot, in which event voting shall be by written ballot.
                  Each ballot shall be signed by the Member who casts it, and
                  shall be preserved with the minutes of the meeting.

            (e)   Adjournment.  A meeting of the Members may be adjourned to
                  another time and place by the affirmative vote of a Majority
                  Interest (determined


                                      -23-
<PAGE>
                  with reference to Members who are present and entitled to vote
                  at the meeting). If a meeting is adjourned to another day, the
                  Board of Managers shall use reasonable efforts to inform the
                  other Members of the date, time and place on and at which the
                  meeting will reconvene, and if such date is more than five (5)
                  days after the date of the meeting, shall notify the other
                  Members of such date, time and place.

            (f)   Minutes. The President and Chief Executive Officer (or another
                  person designated by the Board of Managers) shall preside at
                  all meetings of Members. The Secretary (or another person
                  designated by the Board of Managers) shall keep the minutes of
                  the meeting.

            (g)   Action by Written Consent.  Any action which, pursuant to
                  this Limited Liability Company Agreement or the Delaware Act,
                  is to be taken by all of the Members may be taken, without a
                  meeting of the Members and without a vote, pursuant to a
                  written consent signed by all of the Members.  Any action
                  which, pursuant to this Limited Liability Company Agreement
                  or the Delaware Act, is to be taken by a Majority Interest or
                  any greater or lesser number of Members may be taken, without
                  a meeting of the Members and without a vote, pursuant to a
                  written consent signed by a Majority Interest or the
                  requisite number of Members; provided, however, that such
                  action shall not be effective until the Members who did not
                  consent have been notified of the action (which notice shall
                  include a copy of the written consent).

      5.6   SALE OF THE COMPANY

            (a)   If a Capital Event that involves the sale of all or
                  substantially all of the Company's Units (whether by merger,
                  recapitalization, consolidation, reorganization, conversion,
                  combination or otherwise) to any third party (any such sale
                  constituting an "Approved Sale") is approved by each of the
                  Independent Manager and all votes of the Series B Manager(s)
                  appointed to the Board, each Member (including holders of
                  Series A, C and D Units) shall consent to and raise no
                  objections against such Approved Sale.

            (b)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Limited
                  Liability Company Agreement, in connection with an Approved
                  Sale involving a transfer of Members' Units, each Member
                  shall receive the identical form of consideration and the
                  identical portion of aggregate consideration that such Member
                  would have received, if such aggregate consideration had been
                  received directly by the Company and then distributed to the
                  Members in complete liquidation pursuant to Section 8.2 of
                  this Limited Liability Company Agreement.


                                      -24-
<PAGE>
            (c)   In connection with any such Approved Sale, (i) if the
                  Approved Sale is structured as (A) a merger or consolidation,
                  each Member shall waive any dissenters rights, appraisal
                  rights or similar rights in connection with such merger or
                  consolidation, or (B) a sale of Units, each Member shall
                  agree to sell all of his Units and rights to acquire Units on
                  the terms and conditions so approved, (ii) each Member shall
                  take all necessary or desirable actions in connection with
                  the consummation of the Approved Sale reasonably requested by
                  the Company; and (iii) each Member shall be obligated to join
                  on a pro rata basis (based on the share of the aggregate
                  proceeds paid in such Approved Sale) in any indemnification
                  or other obligations that the Company agrees to provide in
                  connection with such Approved Sale other than any such
                  obligations that relate specifically to a particular Member
                  such as indemnification with respect to representations and
                  warranties given by a Member regarding such Member's title to
                  and ownership of Units; provided that no Member shall be
                  obligated in connection with such Approved Sale to agree to
                  indemnify or hold harmless the prospective transferee(s) with
                  respect to an amount in excess of the net cash proceeds paid
                  to such Member in connection with such Approved Sale.

            (d)   The obligations of the Members with respect to an Approved
                  Sale are subject to the satisfaction of the following
                  conditions: (i) if any Member is given an option as to the
                  form and amount of consideration to be received, each Member
                  shall be given the same option; and (ii) each holder of then
                  currently exercisable rights to acquire Units shall be given
                  an opportunity to exercise such rights prior to the
                  consummation of the Approved Sale and participate in such
                  sale as a Member.

            (e)   Members shall bear their pro-rata share of the costs of any
                  sale of Units pursuant to an Approved Sale to the extent such
                  costs are incurred for the benefit of all Members and are not
                  otherwise paid by the Company or the acquiring party.  For
                  purposes of this Section 5.6(d), costs incurred in exercising
                  reasonable efforts to take all necessary actions in
                  connection with the consummation of an Approved Sale in
                  accordance with Section 5.6(a) shall be deemed to be for the
                  benefit of all Members.

            (f)   The provisions of this Section 5.6 shall terminate and cease
                  to have effect upon the first sale of the Company's equity
                  securities to the public pursuant to a registration statement
                  filed with, and declared effective by, the Securities and
                  Exchange Commission.

6.    ASSIGNMENT OF UNITS AND ADMISSION OF ADDITIONAL MEMBERS

      6.1   COMPLIANCE WITH SECURITIES LAWS.  Each Member covenants with, and
            represents and warrants to, the Company and the other Members as
            follows:


                                      -25-
<PAGE>
            (a)   Such Member has acquired his, her or its Units for his, her or
                  its own account and for investment purposes only, and not with
                  a view to the assignment of all or any portion of such Units;

            (b)   Such Member shall not assign all or any portion of his, her or
                  its Units in a manner which violates any federal or state
                  securities law; and

            (c)   Such Member shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the
                  other Members, the Company and the Company's Board of
                  Managers, officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns
                  from and against any and all losses, damages, liabilities,
                  claims, demands, obligations, fines, penalties, expenses
                  (including reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys engaged
                  by the indemnitee in defense of any act or omission),
                  judgments or amounts paid in settlement by the indemnitee
                  incurred by the indemnitee as a result of any breach of the
                  covenants, representations and warranties made in this
                  Section 6.1 by such Member.

      6.2   ASSIGNMENTS AND SUBSTITUTE MEMBERS.

            (a)   Effect of Assignments.  Subject to the remaining provisions
                  of this Section 6.2, and except for any assignment to a
                  Competitive Business or any Affiliate of a Competitive
                  Business, a Member may assign all or any portion of his, her
                  or its Units at any time.  Notwithstanding the immediately
                  preceding sentence, an assignment of Units does not entitle
                  the assignee to participate in the management and affairs of
                  the Company or to become, or exercise any rights of, a
                  Member.  An assignment of Units merely entitles the assignee
                  to receive, to the extent assigned, distributions to which
                  the assigning Member would be entitled pursuant to this
                  Limited Liability Company Agreement.  In no event shall the
                  Company, the Board of Managers or any other Member have any
                  obligation whatsoever to recognize an assignment of Units
                  unless the assignee has been admitted, in accordance with
                  Section 6.2(b) below, as a substitute Member in place of the
                  assigning Member to the extent of the Units assigned.  Until
                  such time as the assignee has been so admitted, the Company,
                  the Board of Managers and the other Members shall consider
                  the assigning Member to be the owner of his, her or its Units
                  for all purposes relevant to the Certificate of Formation,
                  this Limited Liability Company Agreement and the Delaware
                  Act, and all distributions relating to the assigned Units
                  shall be made to the assigning Member, it being his, her or
                  its responsibility to forward the appropriate portion of such
                  distributions to the assignee.

            (b)   Substitute Members. An assignee of Units shall be admitted as
                  a substitute Member in place of the assigning Member to the
                  extent of the Units


                                      -26-
<PAGE>
                  assigned, only on satisfaction of each of the following
                  conditions precedent:

                  (i)   The Board of Managers shall have consented to such
                        admission in writing;

                  (ii)  The agreement effecting the assignment is reasonably
                        satisfactory, in form and substance, to the Board of
                        Managers and the Company's counsel, and the assigning
                        Member and the assignee have executed and acknowledged
                        such agreement and such other documents, instruments and
                        papers as the Board of Managers and the Company's
                        counsel reasonably deem necessary, proper, convenient or
                        desirable in order to evidence or effect the assignment
                        or the admission of the assignee as a substitute Member
                        in place of the assigning Member to the extent of the
                        Units assigned;

                  (iii) The assignee accepts, adopts and agrees to be bound by
                        all of the terms and provisions of this Limited
                        Liability Company Agreement, as it may have been
                        amended, from and after the effective date of the
                        assignment, as if the assignee had joined in the
                        original execution of this Limited Liability Company
                        Agreement (and all subsequent amendments to this Limited
                        Liability Company Agreement) as a Member. Such
                        acceptance, adoption and agreement shall be set forth in
                        a writing, the form and substance of which shall be
                        satisfactory to the Board of Managers and the Company's
                        counsel; and

                  (iv)  The assignee has paid, or acknowledged that he, she or
                        it is obligated to pay, all reasonable fees and expenses
                        (including, without limitation, all reasonable
                        attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by the Company in
                        connection with such admission.

            (c)   Effect of Assignment.  An assignee who is admitted as a
                  substitute Member in accordance with Section 6.2(b) above
                  has, to the extent assigned, the rights and powers, and is
                  subject to the restrictions and liabilities, of a Member
                  under the Certificate of Formation, this Limited Liability
                  Company Agreement and the Delaware Act.  Such an assignee
                  also is liable for any obligations of his, her or its
                  assignor to make Capital Contributions and to return
                  distributions, to the extent provided in the Delaware Act or
                  this Limited Liability Company Agreement, but shall not be
                  obligated for liabilities unknown to the assignee at the time
                  he, she or it became a Member, unless the liabilities are
                  shown on the Company's financial records.  Notwithstanding
                  the above, in the case of Units assigned by a Series B
                  Member, such Units shall become Series C Units in


                                      -27-
<PAGE>
                  the hands of the Substituted Member, unless such assignment is
                  to one or more existing Series B Members, and such assignee
                  shall have no voting rights hereunder.

      6.3   SECTION 754 ELECTION. In the event of the assignment of all or any
            portion of Units voluntarily by way of a sale or exchange (and the
            subsequent admission of the assignee as a substitute Member pursuant
            to Section 6.2 above) or by operation of law on the death of a
            Member, the Company shall elect, pursuant to Code Section 754, to
            adjust the basis of the Company's property, if the recipient of the
            Units so requests, and if the Board of Managers consents to such
            adjustment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld). Each
            Member shall provide the Company with all information necessary to
            make such election. Any provision of this Limited Liability Company
            Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, any change in the amount
            of depreciation deducted by the Company or any change in the gain or
            loss of the Company for federal income tax purposes resulting from
            such election shall be allocated entirely to the recipient of the
            Units in question; provided, however, that neither the Unit holdings
            of any Member, the Capital Contribution obligations of any Member
            nor the amount of any distributions of Excess Cash shall be affected
            as a result of such election; and provided, further, that such
            election shall have no effect except for federal income tax
            purposes.

      6.4   ADMISSION OF ADDITIONAL MEMBERS.

            (a)   In order for a person to be admitted as an additional Member,
                  such admission, and the terms and conditions of such
                  admission, must be approved by the Board of Managers and such
                  person must accept, adopt and agree to be bound by all of the
                  terms and provisions of this Limited Liability Company
                  Agreement, as the same may have been amended, as if such
                  person had joined in the original execution of this Limited
                  Liability Company Agreement.  Any provision of this Limited
                  Liability Company Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding,
                  the provisions of this Section 6.4(a) shall not govern or
                  apply to any admission to be effected in connection with
                  employee options, as contemplated in subsection (b) below,
                  the assignment of Units, as contemplated in Section 6.2
                  above, or pursuant to Section 5.2(c) above.

            (b)   If the Board of Managers determines, in the exercise of its
                  reasonable discretion, that admission of one or more Members
                  depends on granting such Member(s) certain management rights,
                  the Board may modify Section 5.1(a) to reflect that such new
                  Member(s) has the right to appoint up to two members to the
                  Board, or control up to 40% of the Board's votes; provided,
                  however, that any rights granted to such new Member(s)
                  pursuant to this Section 6.4(b), shall decrease,
                  proportionately, the voting rights of the Original Member.


                                      -28-
<PAGE>
            (c)   The Board of Managers may, from time to time, offer in
                  writing (pursuant to a plan or otherwise) to Key Employees
                  (as defined below) Series D Units not to exceed in the
                  aggregate 11.5% of all outstanding Units under such terms and
                  subject to such conditions as the Board shall determine in
                  its sole discretion.  The Board may establish vesting
                  schedules for individual Key Employees that defer such Key
                  Employee's rights to full ownership of his or her Series D
                  Units or forfeiture provisions that forfeit a Key Employee's
                  rights to his Series D Units upon the occurrence of certain
                  events (together, "Restricted Units").  Any Restricted Units
                  (or options to acquire such Units) issued in connection with
                  receipt of the initial Capital Contributions, shall assume a
                  $50 million enterprise value of the Company.  The Board shall
                  amend Exhibit A from time to time to reflect the admission of
                  Key Employees as Members upon the issuance of Restricted
                  Units or upon exercise of their options to purchase Series D
                  Units (in the case of options).  A Key Employee will not be
                  admitted as a Member until he or she agrees in writing to be
                  bound by the terms and provisions of this Limited Liability
                  Company Agreement. For purposes of this Section 6.4(c), "Key
                  Employee" shall mean any person designated by the Board of
                  Managers as a Key Employee eligible to receive the benefits
                  of this Section 6.4(c).

      6.5   AMENDMENT OF LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY AGREEMENT TO REFLECT
            ASSIGNMENT. Notwithstanding Section 9.4 below, the Board of Managers
            may amend this Limited Liability Company Agreement to reflect any
            assignment or admission of a substitute or additional Member
            accomplished in accordance with this Section 6 or Section 5.2(c)
            above.

      6.6   DEFINITION. As used in this Section 6, the term "assign" means to
            sell, transfer, assign, gift, pledge or otherwise dispose of or
            encumber all or any portion of a Unit. All derivations of the term
            "assign" shall have similar meanings, as is appropriate.

      6.7   CALL OPTION.

            (a)   The Series B and Series C Members as of the date hereof shall
                  have the right (the "Call Option") to purchase from the
                  Original Member, proportionate to their relative Unit
                  holdings, on the terms and subject to the conditions set
                  forth in this Section 6.7, all, but not less than all, of the
                  Original Member's Units owned on the date of the exercise of
                  the Call Option (the "Called Interests").  The Call Option
                  shall be exercisable at any time after 36 months from the
                  date hereof and before 60 months from the date hereof (the
                  "Exercise Period").

            (b)   Any exercise of the Call Option shall be effected by written
                  notice given to the Original Member and signed by all of the
                  Members participating in


                                      -29-
<PAGE>
                  the exercise of the Call Option, which notice may be given at
                  any time during the Exercise Period, and which notice shall
                  set forth a closing date not sooner than 30 nor later than 60
                  days following the date of the notice. Such closing shall be
                  delayed to the extent required to permit completion of the
                  procedures for determining the Call Option Purchase Price (as
                  defined below).

            (c)   For purposes of this Section 6.7, the Call Option Purchase
                  Price shall be equal to the amount which the Original Member
                  would receive upon liquidation of the Company pursuant to
                  Section 8.2, assuming a fair market value of the Company
                  equal to its Enterprise Value; provided however, for this
                  purpose all outstanding options and warrants to purchase
                  Units shall be treated as exercised.  "Enterprise Value"
                  shall mean the saleable value of the equity of the Company
                  (as of the date the notice was received by the Original
                  Member) that is the mid-point of the range of such values
                  resulting from a nationally recognized investment banking
                  firm's application of generally accepted valuation
                  methodologies.  The investment banker selected to make the
                  valuation determination shall not represent the Company, any
                  Member or member of the Board of Managers in a lead capacity
                  and shall be selected by the Board of Managers.   Such
                  selection shall occur within 20 days of the Original Member's
                  receipt of the exercise notice.  The cost of such investment
                  banker shall be borne by the Members exercising the Call
                  Option.

            (d)   At the closing of the exercise of the Call Option, the
                  following shall occur:  (i) all debts between the Company and
                  the Original Member shall be reconciled, and the resulting
                  balance, in the case of funds owed to the Original Member,
                  shall be paid off or caused to be paid off, by Members
                  exercising the Call Option; or in the case of funds owed to
                  the Company, such amount shall be netted against and reduce
                  payment of the Call Option Purchase Price; (ii) such Members
                  shall pay or cause to be paid to the Original Member the Call
                  Option Purchase Price in cash by wire transfer of immediately
                  available funds (after any adjustments required by (i)
                  above); and (iii) the Original Member shall execute and
                  deliver to the Members or person or entity designated by the
                  Members an assignment and transfer of its Units in form and
                  substance reasonably satisfactory to the Members exercising
                  the Call Option.  The Units sold pursuant to this Section 6.7
                  shall be transferred free and clear of all liens, pledges,
                  encumbrances, claims and equities of any kind, except those
                  which secure obligations of the Company and which are
                  applicable to the Units held by the Members exercising the
                  Call Option.


                                      -30-
<PAGE>
7.    NOTICES

      7.1   MANNER OF DELIVERY. Any notice, election, demand, request, consent,
            approval, concurrence or other communication (collectively, a
            "notice") given or made under any provision of this Limited
            Liability Company Agreement shall be deemed to have been
            sufficiently given or made for all purposes only if it is in writing
            and it is: (a) delivered personally to the party to whom it is
            directed; (b) sent by first class mail or overnight express mail,
            postage and charges prepaid, addressed to the party to whom it is
            directed, at his, her or its address set forth opposite his, her or
            its name on the attached Exhibit A; or (c) telecopied to the party
            to whom it is directed, at his, her or its address set forth
            opposite his, her or its name on the attached Exhibit A. All notices
            to the Company also shall be sent to each member of the Board of
            Managers.

      7.2   DATE. Unless any other provision of this Limited Liability Company
            Agreement expressly provides to the contrary, any notice:

            (a)   given or made in the manner indicated in Section 7.1(a) above
                  shall be deemed to have been given or made on the day on which
                  such notice was actually delivered to an adult residing or
                  employed at the address of the intended recipient, but if such
                  day was not a business day, such notice shall be deemed to
                  have been given or made on the first business day following
                  such day;

            (b)   given or made in the manner indicated in Section 7.1(b) above
                  shall be deemed to have been given or made on the third
                  business day after the day on which it was deposited in a
                  regularly maintained receptacle for the deposit of the United
                  States' mail, or in the case of overnight express mail, on
                  the business day immediately following the day on which it
                  was deposited in a regularly maintained receptacle for the
                  deposit of overnight express mail, provided that the notice
                  is subsequently delivered by the U.S. Post Office or the
                  courier service to the designated address in the ordinary
                  course of business; and

            (c)   given or made in the manner indicated in Section 7.1(c) above
                  shall be deemed to have been given or made on receipt by the
                  transmitting party of printed confirmation that the
                  transmission was received, provided that if the transmission
                  occurs after 4:30 p.m. EST or EDT (as appropriate) or on a
                  non-business day, the notice shall be deemed to have been
                  given or made on the first business day to follow such
                  transmission.

            Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, if the intended
            recipient actually receives a notice before the date on which such
            notice is deemed to have been given or made, as specified above, the
            date of actual receipt shall be the date


                                      -31-
<PAGE>
            on which such notice is deemed to have been given or made for the
            purposes of this Limited Liability Company Agreement.

      7.3   CHANGE OF ADDRESS. Any Member or the Company may change his, her or
            its address for purposes of this Limited Liability Company Agreement
            by giving all of the Members, the Board of Managers and the Company
            notice of such change in the manner provided in Section 7.1 above.

8.    DISSOLUTION

      8.1   EVENTS OF DISSOLUTION. The Company shall be dissolved and its
            affairs wound up only upon the occurrence of any of the following
            events, whichever occurs first:

            (a)   The expiration of the period fixed for the Company's duration
                  set forth in its Certification of Formation;

            (b)   The majority vote of Managers; or

            (c)   The entry of a decree of judicial dissolution under Section
                  18-802 of the Delaware Act.

      8.2   WINDING UP AND LIQUIDATING DISTRIBUTIONS. On the dissolution of the
            Company pursuant to Section 8.1 above or otherwise, the Board of
            Managers shall file a Certificate of Cancellation for the Company
            with the Delaware Secretary of State and shall wind up the Company's
            affairs in accordance with the provisions of the Delaware Act. Once
            the Company's affairs have been wound up, the Board of Managers
            shall proceed with an orderly liquidation of the Company's assets.
            On completion of such liquidation, the Board of Managers shall file
            all tax returns and pay all tax obligations required by applicable
            Delaware law, and within a reasonable time, the Board of Managers
            shall furnish each Member with a statement prepared by the Company's
            accountants, which shall set forth the assets and liabilities of the
            Company as of the date of dissolution and the proceeds and expenses
            of the Company's liquidation. The Board of Managers shall apply or
            distribute the proceeds of the liquidation in the following order of
            priority:

            (a)   First, to the Company's creditors, whether they are or are
                  not Members, to the extent permitted by applicable law, in
                  satisfaction of the debts and liabilities of the Company and
                  the expenses of liquidation, other than debts and liabilities
                  for distributions to Members under Sections 3.5 and 3.6
                  above.  At the same time, the Board of Managers shall
                  establish such reserves as it reasonably deems necessary, and
                  in such amounts as it reasonably deems necessary, for any
                  contingent or unforeseen debts, liabilities or obligations of
                  the Company.  The Board of Managers shall pay such reserves
                  over to a bank or other institutional escrow agent to be


                                      -32-
<PAGE>
                  held, for such period of time as the Board of Managers
                  reasonably deems appropriate, for the purpose of future
                  disbursement in payment of such debts, liabilities and
                  obligations.  On the expiration of the period described
                  above, the Board of Managers shall distribute the balance of
                  such reserves in accordance with the remaining provisions of
                  this Section 8.2;

            (b)   Then, to the Members pro rata, in proportion to their
                  positive Capital Account balances; provided, however, that
                  the Members' Capital Accounts first shall be adjusted to
                  reflect the manner in which any unrealized income, gain, loss
                  and deduction inherent in the Company's property, which has
                  not previously been reflected in the Members' Capital
                  Accounts, would be allocated among the Members if there had
                  been a taxable disposition of the Company's assets at fair
                  market value on the date of distribution, and such income,
                  gain, loss or deduction were allocated in accordance with
                  Section 3.2 hereof.

9.    MISCELLANEOUS

      9.1   BOOKS AND RECORDS. The Company's books shall be kept on such method
            of accounting as the Board of Managers deems appropriate in its sole
            discretion. The Company's books shall be maintained in a full and
            accurate manner at its principal place of business, and each and
            every transaction of the Company shall be entered fully and
            accurately in such books. The Company shall keep the following
            records at its registered office: (i) a current and accurate list of
            each Member and each member of the Board of Managers, including his,
            her or its full name and last known address; (ii) a copy of the
            Certificate of Formation and this Limited Liability Company
            Agreement, including all amendments and restatements; (iii) copies
            of the Company's federal, state and local tax returns and financial
            statements for the Company's last three (3) fiscal years; and (iv)
            copies of records that would enable a Member to determine his, her
            or its relative share of the Company's distributions and his, her or
            its relative voting rights, to the extent such information is not
            ascertainable from the records required to be maintained pursuant to
            clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of this sentence.

      9.2   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. At the Company's expense, the Board of
            Managers shall cause to be prepared and distributed to all of the
            Members all appropriate information relating to the Company that is
            necessary for the preparation of the Members' federal income tax
            returns.

      9.3   GOVERNING LAW. This Limited Liability Company Agreement shall be
            deemed to have been entered into within the State of Delaware. This
            Limited Liability Company Agreement shall be construed and enforced
            in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard
            to its conflict of laws principles.


                                      -33-
<PAGE>
      9.4   AMENDMENTS. Except to the extent that another provision of this
            Limited Liability Company Agreement expressly provides to the
            contrary, any amendment to this Limited Liability Company Agreement
            must be approved, in writing, by the Members in accordance with
            Section 5.1 above; provided, however, that any amendment to Articles
            3, 8 or Sections 2.3, 4.2, 4.6, 5.1, 5.2, 5.6, 6.2, 6.4, 6.7, above,
            to the attached Exhibit A (except to the extent contemplated in
            Section 6.5 above) or to this Section 9.4, shall require the
            approval of all of the Members; and provided further, that no
            amendments may be made which impact the selection of, voting rights
            or any other item relating to the Independent Manager, without such
            Manager's prior written approval.

      9.5   BINDING EFFECT. Except to the extent that another provision of this
            Limited Liability Company Agreement expressly provides to the
            contrary, this Limited Liability Company Agreement shall be binding
            on and inure to the benefit of the parties to it and their
            respective estates, personal representatives, executors,
            administrators, heirs, devisees, successors and permitted assigns.

      9.6   SEVERABILITY. The provisions of this Limited Liability Company
            Agreement shall be severable. Any section, paragraph, clause or
            provision of this Limited Liability Company Agreement which is found
            to be unenforceable or invalid shall not affect the enforceability
            or validity of any other section, paragraph, clause or provision of
            this Limited Liability Company Agreement.

      9.7   CONSTRUCTION. The parties acknowledge that they each participated in
            the drafting of this Limited Liability Company Agreement and the
            negotiation of its provisions. This Limited Liability Company
            Agreement shall not be construed for or against any party,
            regardless of whether some parties had a greater degree of
            participation than others. This Limited Liability Company Agreement
            sets forth the entire understanding and agreement of the parties
            with respect to its subject matter and supersedes all prior
            understandings and agreements, whether written or oral, with respect
            to its subject matter.

      9.8   PRONOUNS. References in this Limited Liability Company Agreement to
            a Member, a member of the Board of Managers or any other person in
            the singular or plural or as him, her, it, or other like references,
            shall also, where the context so requires, be deemed to include the
            singular or the plural reference, or the masculine, feminine or
            neuter reference, as the case may be.

      9.9   COUNTERPARTS AND FACSIMILE SIGNATURES. This Limited Liability
            Company Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts,
            each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which
            together shall constitute one instrument. Copies (whether facsimile,
            photostatic or otherwise) of signatures to this Limited Liability
            Company Agreement shall be deemed to be originals and may be relied
            on to the same extent as the originals.


                                      -34-
<PAGE>
      9.10  TAX MATTERS PARTNER. The President and Chief Executive Officer, if
            he is a Member, or a Member designated by the Board of Managers if
            the President and Chief Executive Officer is not a Member or is
            unable or unwilling to serve, shall serve as the Company's "Tax
            Matters Partner" for purposes of Code Section 6231(a)(7). The Tax
            Matters Partner shall have the powers and duties provided for in
            such Code Section and in the related Treasury Regulations. The Tax
            Matters Partner shall promptly send the Members copies of any
            notices received from the Internal Revenue Service with respect to
            the Company and shall keep them advised as to the status of any
            Company issues or proceedings before the Internal Revenue Service.
            The Tax Matters Partner shall have no liability to the Company or
            any Member for any acts or omissions in his, her or its capacity as
            the Tax Matters Partner. The Company shall reimburse the Tax Matters
            Partner for all costs and expenses reasonably incurred by him, her
            or it on behalf of the Company. The Company shall indemnify, defend
            and hold harmless the Tax Matters Partner from and against any and
            all claims, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable
            attorney fees and court costs) incurred by him, her or it as a
            consequence as serving or acting as the Tax Matters Partner.

10.   DEFINITIONS

      10.1  DEFINITIONS. As used in this Limited Liability Company Agreement,
            the following terms shall have the following meanings:

            (a)   "Adjusted Capital Account Deficit" means, with respect to any
                  Member, the deficit balance, if any, in such Member's Capital
                  Account as of the end of the taxable year, after giving effect
                  to the following adjustments:

                  (i)   credit to such Capital Account any amount which such
                        Member is obligated to restore under Section
                        1.704-l(b)(2)(ii)(c) of the Treasury Regulations, as
                        well as any addition thereto pursuant to the next to
                        last sentence of Sections 1.704-2(g)(1) and (i)(5) of
                        the Treasury Regulations, after taking into account
                        thereunder any changes during such year in minimum
                        gain, as determined in accordance with Sections
                        1.704-2(d) and 1.704-2(i)(3) of the Treasury
                        Regulations; and

                  (ii)  debit to such Capital Account the items described in
                        Sections 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), (5) and (6) of the
                        Treasury Regulations.

                  This definition of Adjusted Capital Account Deficit is
                  intended to comply with the provisions of Treasury Regulations
                  Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) and 1.704-2, and will be
                  interpreted consistently with those provisions.

            (b)   An "Affiliate" of a person is (i) any person who, directly or
                  indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common
                  control with such person,


                                      -35-
<PAGE>
                  (ii) if such person is an entity, any officer, director,
                  manager or trustee, or (iii) any person who is an officer,
                  director, manager or trustee, or who, directly or indirectly,
                  controls, is controlled by or is under common control with any
                  person described in clauses (i) or (ii) of this sentence. For
                  the purposes of this definition, the term "control" means to
                  own or to have power to vote or direct the vote of at least
                  ten percent (10%) of the outstanding voting securities of
                  another person.

            (c)   "Board of Managers" means the person or persons appointed as
                  the Board of Managers of the Company pursuant to Section 4
                  above.

            (d)   "Capital Account" means, with respect to each Member, a single
                  capital account which shall be established for such Member and
                  which shall be maintained for such Member in accordance with
                  the following provisions:

                  (i)   To each Member's Capital Account there shall be
                        credited the amount of cash and the Gross Asset Value
                        of any property contributed by such Member to the
                        capital of the Company, such Member's allocable share
                        of income or gain pursuant to Section 3.2, as well as
                        tax-exempt income or gain, any items specially
                        allocated to a Member under Sections 3.3 or 3.4, and
                        the amount of any Company liabilities that are assumed
                        by such Member or that are secured by any Company
                        property distributed to such Member.

                  (ii)  To each Member's Capital Account there shall be debited
                        the amount of cash and the Gross Asset Value of any
                        Company property distributed to such Member pursuant to
                        any provision of this Limited Liability Company
                        Agreement, such Member's allocable share of losses
                        pursuant to Section 3.2, as well as non-deductible
                        expenditures, any items specially allocated to a Member
                        under Sections 3.3 or 3.4, and the amount of any
                        liabilities of such Member that are assumed by the
                        Company or that are secured by any property contributed
                        by such Member to the Company.

                  (iii) In the event the Gross Asset Values of Company assets
                        are adjusted, the Capital Accounts of all Members shall
                        be adjusted simultaneously to reflect the aggregate net
                        adjustment as if the Company recognized gain or loss
                        equal to the amount of such aggregate net adjustment.
                        All subsequent Depreciation or other related items shall
                        thereafter be reflected in the Members' Capital
                        Accounts.

                  (iv)  The foregoing provisions relating to the maintenance of
                        Capital Accounts are intended to comply with Treasury
                        Regulation Section 1.704-1(b), and shall be interpreted
                        and applied in a manner


                                      -36-
<PAGE>
                        consistent with such Regulations. It is the intent of
                        the parties hereto that their underlying economic
                        arrangement be reflected in their Capital Account
                        balances, as computed in accordance with the provisions
                        of (i) - (iii) above.

                  (v)   In the event any interest in the Company is transferred
                        in accordance with the terms of this Limited Liability
                        Company Agreement, the transferee shall succeed to the
                        Capital Account of the transferor to the extent it
                        relates to the transferred interest.

            (e)   "Capital Contribution" means anything of value that a Member
                  contributes to the Company's capital, whether in the form of
                  cash, property (tangible or intangible), services or a
                  promissory note or other binding obligation to contribute cash
                  or property or to perform services, whenever made.

            (f)   "Capital Event" shall mean (i) the sale of all or
                  substantially all of the Company's Units (whether by merger,
                  recapitalization, consolidation, reorganization, combination
                  or otherwise) resulting in a Member or Members (other than
                  Members on the date hereof) owning in excess of 50% of all
                  Units then outstanding or (ii) the sale of all or
                  substantially all of the Company's assets.

            (g)   "Certificate of Formation" means the Certificate of Formation
                  of the Company filed with the Delaware Secretary of State in
                  accordance with the Delaware Act, as the same may be amended
                  or restated from time to time.

            (h)   "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or
                  corresponding provisions of subsequent superseding federal
                  revenue laws.

            (i)   "Company" means Origen Financial L.L.C., a limited liability
                  company organized under the laws of the State of Delaware
                  pursuant to the Certificate of Formation and this Limited
                  Liability Company Agreement.

            (j)   "Company Minimum Gain" has the meaning assigned to the term
                  partnership minimum gain in Treasury Regulations Sections
                  1.704-2(b)(2) and 1.704-2(d)(1). In general, Company Minimum
                  Gain equals the excess of the amount by which a Nonrecourse
                  Liability exceeds the adjusted tax basis of the Company
                  property it encumbers.

            (k)   "Company Subsidiaries" is defined in Recital A.

            (l)   "Competitive Business" means any business that competes with
                  the business of the Company or of Bingham Financial Services
                  Corporation or any of its directly or indirectly owned
                  subsidiaries.


                                      -37-
<PAGE>
            (m)   "Confidential Information" means information or knowledge not
                  readily ascertainable by the general public or the industry in
                  which the Company is engaged, including, but limited to, the
                  Company's business plan, financial information, products,
                  systems, processes, designs, accounting, marketing, client or
                  customer lists and information.

            (n)   "Delaware Act" means the Delaware Limited Liability Company
                  Act, Del. Code Ann. tit. 6,Sections 18-101 to -1109,
                  as it may be amended from time to time.

            (o)   "Depreciation" means, for each taxable year or other period,
                  an amount equal to the depreciation, amortization, or other
                  cost recovery deduction allowable with respect to an asset
                  for the year or other period for Federal income tax purposes,
                  except that if the Gross Asset Value of an asset differs from
                  its adjusted basis for Federal income tax purposes at the
                  beginning of the year or other period, Depreciation will be
                  an amount that bears the same ratio to the beginning Gross
                  Asset Value as the Federal income tax depreciation,
                  amortization, or other cost recovery deduction for the year
                  or other period bears to the beginning adjusted tax basis,
                  provided that if the Federal income tax depreciation,
                  amortization, or other cost recovery deduction for the year
                  or other period is zero, Depreciation will be determined with
                  reference to the beginning Gross Asset Value using any
                  reasonable method selected by the Board of Managers.

            (p)   "Effective Date" means the date the Mergers become effective
                  under applicable state law, or pursuant to Section 2.1, the
                  date the Origen Corporations contribute assets and liabilities
                  to the Company and Company Subsidiaries, and the holders of
                  the Series B and Series C Units are deemed to have made their
                  initial Capital Contributions to the Company.

            (q)   "Excess Cash" means, at any time, that portion of the cash
                  and cash equivalent assets of the Company which the Board of
                  Managers determines, in its sole discretion, exceeds the
                  amount of cash needed by the Company to (i) remain "solvent",
                  (ii) maintain adequate working capital and reserves, and
                  (iii) conduct its business and carry out its purposes as
                  described in Section 1.2 above.  In making this
                  determination, the Board of Managers shall take into account
                  the Company's then current and foreseeable sources of, and
                  needs for, cash.  For the purposes of this definition, the
                  Company is "solvent" if it its capable of paying its debts as
                  they become due in the usual course of business or the value
                  of its assets are equal to or greater than the sum of its
                  liabilities.

            (r)   "Fiscal Year" means the calendar year ending December 31,
                  2001, and each subsequent calendar year thereafter,
                  respectively.


                                      -38-
<PAGE>
            (s)   "Gross Asset Value" means, with respect to any asset, the
                  adjusted basis of such asset for Federal income tax purposes,
                  except as follows:

                  (i)   The initial Gross Asset Value of any asset contributed
                        by a Member to the Company will be the fair market value
                        of the asset on the date of the contribution, as
                        determined by the Board of Managers.

                  (ii)  The Board of Managers shall adjust the Gross Asset
                        Values of all Company assets to equal the respective
                        fair market values of the assets, as reasonably
                        determined by the Board of Managers, as of (a) the
                        acquisition of an additional interest in the Company by
                        any new or existing Member in exchange for more than a
                        de minimis Capital Contribution; (b) the distribution by
                        the Company to a Member of more than a de minimis amount
                        of Company property as consideration for an interest in
                        the Company if the Board of Managers reasonably
                        determines an adjustment is necessary or appropriate to
                        reflect the relative economic interests of the Members
                        in the Company and (c) the liquidation of the Company
                        within the meaning of Treasury Regulations Section
                        1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(g).

                  (iii) The Gross Asset Values of Company assets will be
                        increased or decreased to reflect any adjustment to the
                        adjusted basis of the assets under Code Sections 734(b)
                        or 743(b), but only to the extent that the adjustment is
                        taken into account in determining Capital Accounts under
                        Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m).

                  (iv)  The Gross Asset Value of any Company asset distributed
                        to any Member will be the gross fair market value of the
                        asset on the date of distribution.

                  After the Gross Asset Value of any asset has been determined
                  or adjusted under subparagraphs (i), (ii), or (iii) above, the
                  Gross Asset Value will be adjusted by the Depreciation taken
                  into account with respect to the asset for purposes of
                  computing the Capital Account balances of the Members.

            (t)   "Independent Manager" is defined in Section 4.1.

            (u)   "Limited Liability Company Agreement" (or "Agreement") means
                  this Limited Liability Company Agreement of the Company, as it
                  may be amended or restated from time to time.

            (v)   "Majority Interest" means one or more Members who hold, in the
                  aggregate, voting Units which exceed one-half of the total
                  voting Units held by all Members.


                                      -39-
<PAGE>
            (w)   "Member" means each person who has executed this Limited
                  Liability Company Agreement as a Member, including the
                  Original Member, as well as each person who may become a
                  Member by both (i) fulfilling the applicable requirements set
                  forth in this Limited Liability Company Agreement with
                  respect to the admission of a person as a Member, and (ii)
                  accepting, adopting and agreeing to be bound by all of the
                  terms and provisions of this Limited Liability Company
                  Agreement, as it may have been amended or restated, from and
                  after the effective date of his, her or its admission to the
                  Company as a Member, as if such person had joined in the
                  original execution of this Limited Liability Company
                  Agreement (and all amendments and restatements) as a Member.
                  The term "Member" shall include a member of the Board of
                  Managers to the extent such individual has purchased Units in
                  the Company.

            (x)   "Member Nonrecourse Debt" means any nonrecourse debt of the
                  Company for which any Member bears the economic risk of loss,
                  as described in Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-2(b)(4).

            (y)   "Member Nonrecourse Debt Minimum Gain" means an amount, with
                  respect to each Member Nonrecourse Debt, equal to the Company
                  Minimum Gain that would result if such Member Nonrecourse Debt
                  were treated as a Nonrecourse Liability, determined in
                  accordance with Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(3).

            (z)   "Member Nonrecourse Deductions" has the meaning assigned to
                  the term partner nonrecourse deductions in Treasury
                  Regulations Section 1.704-2(i)(2).  In general, the amount of
                  Member Nonrecourse Deductions with respect to a Member
                  Nonrecourse Debt for any tax year is the excess, if any, of
                  the net increase during such year in the amount of Member
                  Nonrecourse Debt Minimum Gain attributable to such Member
                  Nonrecourse Debt, over the aggregate amount of any
                  distributions during such year to the Member that bears the
                  economic risk of loss for such Member Nonrecourse Debt to the
                  extent such distributions are from the proceeds of such
                  Member Nonrecourse Debt, and are allocable to an increase in
                  the Member Nonrecourse Debt Minimum Gain attributable to such
                  Member Nonrecourse Debt.

            (aa)  "Member's Share of Company Minimum Gain" generally means, as
                  described in Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-2(g)(1), the
                  sum of Nonrecourse Deductions allocated to such Member and the
                  aggregate amount of distributions made to such Member of
                  proceeds of a Nonrecourse Liability that are allocable to an
                  increase in Company Minimum Gain, minus the aggregate of such
                  Member's Share of the Net Decrease in Company Minimum Gain.


                                      -40-
<PAGE>
            (bb)  "Member's Share of Member Nonrecourse Debt Minimum Gain"
                  generally means, as described in Treasury Regulations Section
                  1.704-2(i)(5), an amount determined in a manner consistent
                  with Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-2(g)(1) with respect
                  to each Member Nonrecourse Debt for which such Member bears
                  the economic risk of loss.

            (cc)  "Member's Share of the Net Decrease in Company Minimum Gain"
                  generally means, as described in Treasury Regulations Section
                  1.704-2(g)(2), an amount equal to the total net decrease in
                  Company Minimum Gain multiplied by a ratio equal to such
                  Member's Share of Company Minimum Gain at the end of the
                  immediately preceding taxable year over the total Company
                  Minimum Gain at such time.

            (dd)  "Member's Share of the Net Decrease of Member Nonrecourse Debt
                  Minimum Gain" generally means, as described in Treasury
                  Regulations 1.704-2(i)(4), an amount determined in a manner
                  consistent with Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-2(g)(2).

            (ee)  "Merger Agreement" means the Merger Agreement dated December
                  17, 2001 by and among the Original Member, the Company and
                  Origen Financial, Inc. ("OFI"), pursuant to which the
                  Original Member will cause the mergers of: (A) OFI with and
                  into the Company; (B) Origen Special Holdings Corporation
                  with and into Origen Special Purpose L.L.C.; (C) Origen
                  Manufactured Home Financial, Inc. with and into Origen
                  Manufactured Home Financial, L.L.C., and (D) Origen Insurance
                  Agency, Inc. with and into Origen Insurance Agency, L.L.C.,
                  each as more fully described in such Merger Agreement.

            (ff)  "Mergers" mean the transactions described in the Merger
                  Agreement.

            (gg)  "Net Capital Contribution" shall mean the difference between a
                  Member's total Capital Contributions less amounts distributed
                  to such Member under Section 3.6(a).

            (hh)  "Nonrecourse Deductions" has the meaning assigned to such term
                  in Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-2(c). In general, the
                  amount of Nonrecourse Deductions for a Company taxable year
                  equals the excess of the net increase, if any, in the amount
                  of Company Minimum Gain during such year over the aggregate
                  amount of distributions during such year of proceeds of a
                  Nonrecourse Liability that are allocable to an increase in
                  Company Minimum Gain.

            (ii)  "Nonrecourse Liability" means any debt of the Company to the
                  extent that no Member (or a person related to a Member) bears
                  the economic risk of


                                      -41-
<PAGE>
                  loss for that liability, as described in Treasury Regulations
                  Sections 1.704-2(b)(3) and 1.752-1(a)(2).

            (jj)  "Original Member" shall mean Bingham Financial Services
                  Corporation, a Michigan corporation.

            (kk)  "Profits" and "Losses" mean, for each taxable year or other
                  period, an amount equal to the Company's Federal taxable
                  income or loss (as is appropriate) for such year or other
                  period, determined in accordance with Code Section 703(a)
                  (including all items of income, gain, loss or deduction
                  required to be stated separately under Section 703(a)(1) of
                  the Code), with the following adjustments:

                  (i)   Any income of the Company that is exempt from Federal
                        income tax and not otherwise taken into account in
                        computing Profits or Losses will be added to taxable
                        income or loss;

                  (ii)  Any expenditures of the Company described in Code
                        Section 705(a)(2)(B) or treated as Code Section
                        705(a)(2)(B) expenditures under Treasury Regulations
                        Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(i), and not otherwise taken
                        into account in computing Profits or Losses, will be
                        subtracted from taxable income or loss;

                  (iii) Gain or loss resulting from any disposition of Company
                        property (with respect to which gain or loss is
                        recognized for Federal income tax purposes) will be
                        computed by reference to the Gross Asset Value of the
                        property, notwithstanding that the adjusted tax basis of
                        the property differs from its Gross Asset Value;

                  (iv)  In lieu of depreciation, amortization, and other cost
                        recovery deductions taken into account in computing
                        taxable income or loss, there will be taken into account
                        Depreciation for the taxable year or other period; and

                  (v)   If the Gross Asset Value of any Company asset is
                        adjusted pursuant to clauses (ii) or (iii) of the
                        definition of "Gross Asset Value," the amount of such
                        adjustment shall be taken into account as gain or loss
                        from the disposition of such asset for purposes of
                        computing Profits or Losses.

            (ll)  "Series A Units" means the Units of membership interest in the
                  Company designated as Series A Units, which Series A Units
                  shall have such rights, terms and obligations as otherwise
                  provided in this Limited Liability Company Agreement.


                                      -42-
<PAGE>
            (mm)  "Series B Units" means the Units of membership interest in the
                  Company designated as Series B Units, which Series B Units
                  shall have such rights, terms and obligations as otherwise
                  provided in this Limited Liability Company Agreement.

            (nn)  "Series C Units" means the non-voting Units of membership
                  interest in the Company designated as Series C Units, which
                  Series C Units shall have such rights, terms and obligations
                  as otherwise provided in this Limited Liability Company
                  Agreement.

            (oo)  Series D Units" means the Units of membership interest in the
                  Company designated as Series D Units and issued to Key
                  Employees, which shall have such rights, terms and obligations
                  as otherwise provided in this Limited Liability Company
                  Agreement

            (pp)  "Tax Distribution" means with respect to each Member, for each
                  Fiscal Year, that amount equal to the Federal, state and local
                  income taxes for such tax year of such Member then payable on
                  the difference between the cumulative excess of items of
                  income and gain over items of loss and deduction allocated to
                  such Member (as determined by the Company's regularly employed
                  accountants, assuming such Member was an individual taxable
                  for such Fiscal Year at the maximum individual Federal, state
                  and local income tax rates applicable to such Member (after
                  giving effect to the deductibility of state and local taxes,
                  as well as any preferential capital gains rates)), less the
                  aggregate of all amounts distributed to such Member pursuant
                  to Section 3.5; provided, however, that no such distribution
                  shall be paid to the Original Member with respect to any tax
                  allocations described in Sections 3.2(a)(iii), or 3.2(c).

            (qq)  "Treasury Regulations" includes proposed, temporary and final
                  regulations promulgated under the Code in effect as of the
                  date of the filing of the Certificate of Formation and the
                  corresponding sections of any regulations subsequently issued
                  that amend or supersede such regulations.

            (rr)  "Unit" is defined in Section 2.2.


                                      -43-
<PAGE>
      IN WITNESS HEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Limited Liability
Company Agreement of Origen Financial, L.L.C. on or as of December 18, 2001.


                                          MEMBERS:

                                          BINGHAM FINANCIAL SERVICES
                                          CORPORATION, a Michigan corporation


                                          By:   /s/ Ronald A. Klein
                                             ---------------------------
                                                Ronald A. Klein, CEO


                                          SUI TRS, INC. a Michigan corporation


                                          By:   /s/ Gary A. Shiffman
                                             ---------------------------
                                                Gary A. Shiffman, President


                                          Shiffman Family LLC, a Michigan
                                          Limited Liability Company

                                          By:   /s/ Arthur A. Weiss
                                             ---------------------------
                                                Arthur A. Weiss, Manager


                                          Woodward Holding, LLC, a Michigan
                                          Limited Liability Company

                                          By:   /s/ Paul A. Halpern
                                             ---------------------------
                                                Paul A. Halpern
                                          Its:  Manager


                                      -44-
<PAGE>
                                                MANAGERS:


                                                /s/ Ronald Klein
                                                ------------------------------
                                                Ronald Klein

                                                /s/ Gary Shiffman
                                                ------------------------------
                                                Gary Shiffman


                                                ------------------------------
                                                (Independent Manager)




                                      -45-
<PAGE>
                                    EXHIBIT A





<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Series A   Series B   Series C   Total Unit   Initial Capital
Member                                Address                           Units      Units     Units      Holdings     Contribution
- ------                                -------                           -----      -----     -----      --------     ------------

<S>                                   <C>                             <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>
Bingham Financial Services            260 East Brown Street, Suite
Corporation                           200, Birmingham, MI  48009       200,000        -0-       -0-      200,000      $         0


Shiffman Family LLC                   31700 Middlebelt, Suite 145
                                      Farmington Hills, MI  48334          -0-     84,211       -0-       84,211      $ 4,210,526

SUI TRS, Inc.                         31700 Middlebelt, Suite 145
                                      Farmington Hills, MI  48334          -0-    315,789       -0-      315,789      $15,789,474

Woodward Holding, LLC                 2300 Harmon Road
                                      Auburn Hills, MI 48326
                                      Attn: Paul Halpern                   -0-        -0-   400,000      400,000      $20,000,000
                                                                       -------    -------  -------      -------      -----------

Total Initial Capital Contributions
                                                                                                                      $40,000,000
                                                                                                                      ===========
Total Unit Holdings                                                    200,000    400,000   400,000                     1,000,000
                                                                       =======    =======   =======                   ===========
</TABLE>


                                      -46-


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.61
<SEQUENCE>20
<FILENAME>k68295ex10-61.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT DATED FEBRUARY 28, 2002
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.61

                             PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT

         THIS PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into as of
February 28, 2002, by and between SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
("Lender"), and WOODWARD HOLDING, LLC ("Participant").

                                    RECITALS

         A. Lender has provided to Origen Financial, Inc. ("Origen Inc.") and
Origen Financial, L.L.C. ("Origen LLC" and together with Origen Inc., the
"Borrowers") a line of credit facility in the amount of $17,500,000 (the "Line
of Credit") pursuant to the terms and conditions of a certain Amended and
Restated Subordinated Loan Agreement dated February 1, 2002, (the "Loan
Agreement"). All capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall
have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Loan Agreement.

         B. Advances under the Line of Credit are evidenced by a Second Amended
Promissory Note dated as of February 1, 2002 (the, "Line of Credit Note")
executed and delivered by the Borrowers. The payment and performance of the Line
of Credit Note is secured by substantially all assets of the Borrowers (the,
"Collateral") as described in and evidenced by (i) a certain Amended and
Restated Security Agreement between Origen Inc. and Lender dated February 1,
2002, (ii) a certain Security Agreement between Origen LLC and Lender dated
February 1, 2002, (iii) a certain Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company
Interest Security and Pledge Agreement between Origen Inc. and Lender dated
February 1, 2002, (iv) a certain Limited Liability Company Interest Security and
Pledge Agreement between Origen LLC and Lender dated February 1, 2002, and (v) a
certain Amended and Restated Stock Pledge Agreement between Origen LLC and
Lender dated February 1, 2002 (collectively, the "Collateral Documents"). The
payment and performance of the Line of Credit Note is guaranteed by Bingham
Financial Services Corporation as evidenced by an Amended and Restated Guaranty
dated February 1, 2002 ("Guaranty"). The Loan Agreement, Line of Credit Note,
Collateral Documents and Guaranty together with all other documents, agreements
and instruments executed in connection therewith, are collectively referred to
as the "Line of Credit Loan Documents."

         C. Lender has agreed to sell and Participant has agreed to purchase a
participation in the Line of Credit on the terms and conditions herein set
forth.

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual
undertakings herein contained, Lender and Participant hereby agree as follows:

         1. Participation. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, Lender hereby sells and agrees to sell and Participant hereby
purchases and agrees to purchase (a "Participation") an undivided fifty percent
(50%) interest (subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 3 below, the
"Participation Percentage") in the Line of Credit. For purposes of this
Agreement, the "Participation Loan" shall mean the Line of Credit (including any
amounts outstanding on the date hereof and any Committed Advances (as defined
below) made hereafter),



<PAGE>

together with any Future Advances (as defined in Section 3) in which each of
Lender and Participant from time to time acquire and hold an interest pursuant
to Section 3, and the "Loan Documents" shall mean all documents, agreements and
instruments executed in connection with the Participation Loan, including,
without limitation, the Line of Credit Loan Documents. The parties acknowledge
and agree that the committed lending limit under the Line of Credit is
$17,500,000.00 (the "Committed Amount"). The interest of Participant under this
Agreement shall include but not be limited to (a) participation in (i) the
currently outstanding amounts under the Line of Credit, including the right to
receive payments of principal and interest payable under the Line of Credit
Note, and (ii) participation in any advances made under the Line of Credit up to
the Committed Amount thereunder ("Committed Advances"), and (b) the right to (i)
receive a pro rata portion of the commitment fee paid and payable by Borrowers
with respect to the Line of Credit, (ii) purchase, at its option, interests in
Future Advances pursuant to Section 3, (iii) receive the proceeds received upon
the disposition of the Collateral, and (iv) the benefits and burdens arising
from the Loan Documents as each of the Loan Documents are amended by Lender
(either individually or collectively) subsequent to the date hereof in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement, all for the pro rata account and
risk of Participant to the extent of its Participation Percentage. Participant's
right to receive its Participation Percentage in the interest, however, shall be
limited to interest which accrues and is paid on or after the date Participant
pays Lender for its Participation in the Line of Credit. This Agreement
constitutes a nonrecourse sale of a Participation equal to the Participation
Percentage and shall not be construed as a loan by Participant to Lender or as a
sale of securities by Lender to Participant or as creating any other
relationship.

         2. Payment of Purchase Price. No later than two business days after the
execution of this Agreement, Participant shall pay Lender the sum of
$8,405,785.64 for the purchase of its undivided Participation in the Line of
Credit. The foregoing purchase price represents Participant's Participation
Percentage in the current outstanding principal balance under the Line of Credit
Note less Participant's Participation Percentage in origination fees of $150,000
paid by Borrowers prior to the date hereof with respect to the Committed Amount.
Lender shall give Participant prompt written notice of any Committed Advance to
be made on the Line of Credit. Participant shall deliver immediately available
funds to Lender no later than five (5) business days after Lender funds the
Committed Advance (or such other date, as mutually agreed by Lender and
Participant) in an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the total amount of
the Committed Advance paid by Lender. Participant shall remit the purchase price
for its Participation in the Line of Credit (including any Committed Advance) by
wire transfer, in accordance with the following wire instructions:

         Bank:  Bank One - Michigan
         ABA #072000326
         For Credit to Sun Operating Communities Operating Limited Partnership
         Account #1530503

         Participant's Participation under this Agreement with respect to the
Committed Amount under the Line of Credit Note or any Committed Advances shall
be effective as of the day the purchase price for such Participation interest is
received by Lender. The obligation of Participant




                                       2
<PAGE>


to provide Lender with the purchase price of Participant's Participation in any
Committed Advance is irrevocable and shall be absolute and unconditional under
any and all circumstances and irrespective of any set-off, counterclaim or
defense to payment that Participant may have or have had against Lender.

         3. Future Advances.


                  a. If either Lender or Participant (an "Advancing Party"),
desires to loan money to Borrowers after the date hereof (in addition to, and
exclusive of, any Committed Advances), whether effected by amending the Line of
Credit Loan Documents or entering into new loan documents with the Borrowers, (a
"Future Advance"), the Advancing Party shall send the other party to this
Agreement (the "Other Party") a notice of the amount and other terms of the
Future Advance; provided, however, that an Advancing Party shall not be required
to deliver such notice to the Other Party until such time as all Future Advances
made by such Advancing Party hereunder, in the aggregate, equal or exceed
$1,000,000.00. The Other Party shall then have the right (but not the
obligation) to purchase up to a 50% participation interest in the Future
Advance. If the Other Party does not respond to the Advancing Party's notice
within five (5) business days after the Other Party's receipt of such notice (or
such other date, as mutually agreed by the Advancing Party and the Other Party),
the Other Party shall be deemed to have declined to purchase a participation
interest in the Future Advance. If the Other Party wishes to purchase up to a
50% participation interest in the Future Advance, the Other Party shall deliver
immediately available funds to the Advancing Party no later than five (5)
business days after the Advancing Party funds the Future Advance (or such other
date, as mutually agreed by the Advancing Party and the Other Party) in an
amount equal to the product of (i) the percentage interest purchased by the
Other Party in the Future Advance, multiplied by (ii) the total amount of the
Future Advance. Any participation in a Future Advance by an Other Party shall be
effective as of the day the purchase price for such participation interest is
received by the Advancing Party. To the extent an origination fee shall be
payable by Borrowers in connection with any Future Advance, the Advancing Party
shall remit to or give a credit for a portion of such origination fee to the
extent of the Other Party's percentage interest in the total amount of the
Future Advance. If an Other Party purchases a participation interest in any
Future Advance, the Participant's Participation Percentage in the Participation
Loan shall be adjusted so that it is equal to (i) the total dollar amount of the
Participant's advances under the Participation Loan (without giving effect to
credits for or receipt of any origination fees), divided by (ii) the total
principal amount of the Participation Loan.

                  b. If the Other Party does not purchase a participation
interest in the Future Advance or such Future Advance is not yet offered to the
Other Party in accordance with Section 3.a. above, then the entire amount of the
Future Advance shall be a "Non-Participation Loan."



                                       3
<PAGE>

                  c. All indebtedness owing from Borrowers to an Advancing Party
under a Non-Participation Loan shall at all times be wholly subordinate and
junior in right to payment in full of the Participation Loan and all Senior Debt
(as defined in the Loan Agreement). The Advancing Party agrees to enter into a
subordination agreement reasonably acceptable to the Other Party effecting such
subordination upon the making of a Non-Participation Loan.

                  d. All indebtedness owing from Borrowers to an Advancing Party
under a Non-Participation Loan shall be evidenced by a note other than the note
or notes evidencing indebtedness owing under the Participation Loan. If a
Non-Participation Loan is made by Participant, the parties agree to enter into a
mutually acceptable intercreditor agreement on terms substantially in accordance
with this Agreement.

                  e. If an affiliate of Lender or Participant is the lender of
record with respect to any advance constituting any part of the Participation
Loan or a Non-Participation Loan, the parties agree to enter into (and to cause
their respective affiliates, as the case may be, to enter into) a mutually
acceptable intercreditor agreement on terms substantially in accordance with
this Agreement.

         4. Certificate of Participation. No participation certificate shall be
issued by Lender to Participant as this Agreement alone shall evidence the
participation interest in the Participation Loan.

         5. Receipt of Documents.

                  a. By entering into this Agreement, Participant acknowledges
that it has received and is satisfied with and hereby approves the form and
substance of the Line of Credit Loan Documents including any exhibits thereto.

                  b. Participant acknowledges that it has received the same
information regarding the Borrowers as has the Lender. Participant waives any
right to require Lender to furnish or make available to the Participant any of
the Lender's internal credit analysis of the Borrowers. Any such analysis was
prepared solely for internal purposes and the Participant acknowledges and
agrees that it is not and would not be entitled to rely thereon in making its
credit decision.

         6. Application of Payments. Promptly upon receipt by Lender of any
payment of principal or interest on the Participation Loan, Lender shall remit
to Participant its share thereof (after deducting any amount due from
Participant to Lender under this Agreement) determined in accordance with
Section 1 of this Agreement.

         7. Reports, Notice of Default, etc. Lender shall promptly furnish to
Participant copies of all reports and financial statements received from
Borrowers pursuant to the Loan Documents. Lender shall have no responsibility to
Participant for any errors or omissions in any such reports, financial
statements or other information and shall not otherwise be liable to




                                       4
<PAGE>

Participant for failing to comply with the provisions of this Section, unless
such failure is due to Lender's gross negligence or willful misconduct.

         Lender shall promptly notify Participant of the occurrence of any Event
of Default, as defined in the Loan Documents, of which the officer of Lender
responsible for the Loan has actual knowledge. Similarly, Participant will
promptly notify Lender of the occurrence of any Event of Default under the Loan
Documents of which the officer of Participant responsible for administration of
Participant's interest has actual knowledge. Failure to give any notice required
under this Section shall not result in any liability of the Lender to the
Participant, or of the Participant to the Lender, or relieve the Lender or the
Participant, as the case may be, from any of their obligations hereunder.

         8. Loan Documents. Lender shall hold all Loan Documents delivered in
connection with the Participation Loan for the benefit of itself and Participant
in accordance with their respective proportionate shares. Lender shall at all
times keep proper books of account and records at its principal office
reflecting Participant's proportionate share in the Participation Loan, which
records shall be accessible for inspection by Participant at all reasonable
times during business hours and upon reasonable notice to Lender.

         9. Servicing of Participation Loan; Management and Enforcement of Loan
Documents. Lender shall be responsible for the normal routine servicing of loan
advances and payments under the Participation Loan on behalf of itself and
Participant in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. However, so long as
Participant has any outstanding Participation interest in the Participation
Loan, Lender and Participant shall jointly manage and enforce the terms of the
Loan Documents. Specifically, without the prior written consent of Participant,
Lender shall not (i) agree to any amendment or modification of any of the Loan
Documents of any kind or nature, (ii) waive any condition or provision of the
Loan Documents, (iii) declare any Event of Default or enforce any remedy under
the Loan Agreement or provided by law or in equity (whether such Event of
Default arises in whole or in part from any Non-Participation Loan), or (iv)
release any Collateral securing the Participation Loan.

         10. Collection After Maturity. If Lender liquidates Collateral or
receives a payment after maturity of the Participation Loan, by acceleration or
otherwise, and whether pursuant to a demand for payment or as a result of legal
proceedings against Borrowers or through payment by or action against any other
person in any way liable for the indebtedness evidenced by the Loan Documents,
or from any source whatsoever, such payment shall be applied in the following
order:

                  a. To the unreimbursed costs and expenses, including
attorney's fees, incurred by Lender or Participant, in effecting such recovery
or in enforcing any right or remedy under the Loan Documents or in realizing
upon the Collateral;

                  b. To accrued interest payable under the Participation Loan,
of which the portion due to Participant shall be paid to Participant;



                                       5
<PAGE>

                  c. To the unpaid principal amount of the Participation Loan,
of which the portion due to Participant shall be paid to Participant; and

                  d. To the unpaid principal, interest and origination fees
payable with respect to any Non-Participation Loan.

         The foregoing notwithstanding, it is expressly understood that if any
loss (including any un-reimbursed expenses in connection with the Loan
Documents) is sustained with respect to the Participation Loan, that portion of
the total loss which is equal to Participant's Participation Percentage shall be
borne by Participant with the balance of the loss being borne by Lender.

         11. Adjustments to Payments.

                  a. If (i) Lender shall pay an amount to Participant pursuant
hereto in the belief or expectation that a related payment has been or will be
received or collected in connection with the Participation Loan, and (ii) such
related payment is not received or collected by Lender, then Participant will,
within three (3) business days of demand by Lender, return such amount to
Lender, together with interest thereon at the overnight Federal Funds Rate. The
Federal Funds Rate shall be the weighted average of the rates on overnight
Federal Funds transactions, with members of the Federal Reserve System only,
arranged by federal funds brokers, as published as of such day by the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York.

                  b. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,
if Lender determines at any time that any amount received or collected by Lender
with respect to the Participation Loan must be returned to Borrowers or paid to
any other person or entity pursuant to any insolvency law or sharing clause or
otherwise, then Lender will not be required to distribute any portion thereof to
Participant and, Participant will, within three (3) business days of demand by
Lender, repay any portion thereof that Lender shall have distributed to
Participant, together with interest thereon at such rate(s), if any, as Lender
shall be required to pay to Borrowers or such other person or entity with
respect thereto.

                  c. If Participant shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary,
involuntary, through the exercise of any right of setoff, or otherwise) on
account of its Participation in excess of its Participation Percentage of
payments on account of the Participation Loan, Participant shall promptly remit
such excess to Lender.

         12. No Recourse; Limitation of Lender's Liability. Lender's only
obligation to Participant with respect to any payment of principal or of
interest on the Participation Loan or for any fees or other amounts payable by
Borrowers under any of the Loan Documents shall be to remit to Participant its
share of any such payment if, when, and as received by Lender. Neither Lender
nor Participant shall have any recourse against the other as a result of
Borrowers' failure to make any payment due under the Participation Loan or for
any fee or other amounts payable by Borrowers under the Loan Documents. Neither
Lender nor Participant shall have any responsibility with respect to any
representations, warranties or statements made by Borrowers in the Loan
Documents. All losses, including but not limited to those resulting from the
foregoing




                                       6
<PAGE>

matters, shall be borne by the parties in proportion of their respective
proportionate shares of the Participation Loan.

         Although Lender will exercise the same care in administering the
Participation Loan as if the Participation Loan were made entirely for Lender's
own account, Lender shall have no liability to Participant for any loss except
for any actual loss suffered by Participant due to Lender's own gross negligence
or willful misconduct.

         Without limiting the foregoing, Lender shall be fully protected in
relying upon any certificate, document or other communication which appears to
it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper person or
persons and upon the advice of legal counsel, independent accountants and other
appropriate experts (including those retained by Borrowers), and shall not be
required to make any inquiry concerning the performance by Borrowers of their
obligations under or compliance by Borrowers with the terms and conditions of
any of the Loan Documents. Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein,
Lender shall not be deemed to be a trustee or fiduciary for Participant in
connection with this participation, the Line of Credit or any Loan Documents,
and has no duties to Participant.

                  13. Reimbursement and Indemnification.

         a. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, each of Lender and
Participant (the "Indemnifying Party") shall reimburse the other party (the
"Indemnified Party") immediately on demand for its proportion of all
out-of-pocket expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees, incurred by the
Indemnified Party in connection with the making, managing, or collection of the
Participation Loan or Collateral or any portion thereof, to the extent not
recovered from Borrowers, and shall indemnify and hold the Indemnified Party
harmless from and against the Indemnifying Party's proportion of the amount of
any costs, expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements),
claims, damages, actions, losses or liabilities, that the Indemnified Party may
suffer or incur in connection with this Agreement or any of the Loan Documents,
or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or any action taken or
omitted to be taken by the Indemnifying Party hereunder or thereunder
(collectively, the "Liabilities"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, the
Indemnifying Party shall have no obligation to reimburse the Indemnified Party
for any of the Indemnified Party's fees or costs incurred in connection with
this Agreement. In the event that the Indemnified Party recovers any such
amounts from Borrowers after the Indemnifying Party has reimbursed the
Indemnified Party for its proportion of any or all such Liabilities, the
Indemnified Party shall return to the Indemnifying Party its proportion of the
amounts recovered from Borrowers. Notwithstanding anything else set forth in
this Agreement, the obligations and indemnities under this Paragraph shall
survive the payment in full of the Participation Loan and termination of the
Loan Documents and this Agreement.

         b. In the event that the Indemnifying Party does not, on the date on
which the Indemnifying Party is advised by the Indemnified Party of the payment
by the Indemnified Party of any of the foregoing Liabilities, pay the
Indemnified Party in the amount of its proportionate share of Liabilities, the
Indemnifying Party shall pay the Indemnified Party, for each day until




                                       7
<PAGE>
the date of delivery to the Indemnified Party of such amount in immediately
available funds, interest on its proportionate share of the Liabilities at a
rate equal to the overnight Federal Funds Rate.

         14. Other Relationships with Borrowers.

                  a. Each of Lender and Participant may accept deposits from,
make loans or otherwise extend credit to Borrowers (in compliance with Section
3), and generally engage in any kind of financial services business with
Borrowers, or any affiliate of Borrowers, and receive payment on such loans or
extensions of credit (subject to Section 3) and otherwise act with respect
thereto fully and without accountability to the other party to this Agreement in
the same manner as if the Participation did not exist and the transactions
described herein were not in effect.

                  b. No Other Party shall have any interest in any collateral
(other than the Collateral) to support any Non-Participation Loans made by an
Advancing Party to or for the account of Borrowers. Any payment by Borrowers to
an Advancing Party under any Non-Participation Loans (whether voluntary,
involuntary, through the exercise of an right of setoff or otherwise) shall be
applied first in reduction of amounts outstanding under the Participation Loan.

                  c. No Advancing Party shall have any obligation to make any
claim against, or assert any lien upon or right of setoff against, any property
held by such party as security for a Non-Participation Loan which does not
constitute Collateral security for the Participation Loan.

         15. Lender's Warranties. Lender represents and warrants that:

                  a. It has not heretofore sold, assigned or otherwise disposed
of any interest in the Line of Credit.

                  b. It has full power and authority to enter into and perform
this Agreement and the officer(s) of Lender signing the Agreement on behalf of
Participant have been duly authorized to do so.

                  c. It will remain in possession of the original Loan Documents
or duplicate original copies of the Loan Documents.

                  d. The principal amount outstanding as of the date of this
Agreement under the Line of Credit Note is $16,961,571.28.

                  e. Lender's officer responsible for the Line of Credit is not
aware of the existence of any Event of Default as defined in the Loan Documents
as of the date of this Agreement.



                                       8
<PAGE>

         Participant and Lender agree that Lender has not made and shall not at
any time be deemed to have made any further representation or warranty, express
or implied, with respect to (i) the due execution, authenticity, legality,
accuracy, completeness, validity or enforceability of any of the Loan Documents,
(ii) the financial condition or creditworthiness or insolvency of Borrowers or
any other entity which may have liability for the Participation Loan, or the
collectibility of the Participation Loan, or (iii) any other matter having any
relation to the Participation, the Participation Loan or the Loan Documents.

         16. Participant's Warranties. Participant represents, warrants and
acknowledges that:

                  a. It has full power and authority to enter into and perform
this Agreement and the officers of Participant signing the Agreement on behalf
of Participant have been duly authorized to do so.

                  b. It has reviewed and approved the form and substance of each
of the Line of Credit Loan Documents.

                  c. Its decision to purchase this Participation and any future
decisions it makes with respect to its Participation in the Participation Loan
was based and will be based solely on its own independent evaluation of the
Participation Loan, the creditworthiness of Borrowers and any other entity which
may have liability for the Participation Loan, and its own investigation of the
legality, sufficiency, and enforceability of the Loan Documents, and of the
risks involved in the transactions contemplated in the Loan Documents and it is
not and will not rely on Lender with respect thereto.

         17. Assignment Upon Certain Events. Lender hereby assigns and transfers
to Participant all right, title and interest of Lender, if any, in and to
Participant's Participation interest in the Participation Loan; provided,
however, that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, such assignment
shall become effective only upon the occurrence of an Assignment Event (as
defined below). An "Assignment Event" shall have occurred if (a) Lender ceases
doing business or Lender's existence is terminated by sale, dissolution, merger
or otherwise, (b) any assignment is made for the benefit of Lender's creditors,
(c) any receiver of Lender is appointed, (d) any insolvency, liquidation or
reorganization proceeding under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or otherwise shall be
filed by or against Lender, or (e) an event of default shall have occurred
under, and the payment of any indebtedness of Lender shall have been accelerated
under, the terms of any loan agreement pursuant to which Lender has incurred
debt. Upon an Assignment Event, Lender shall execute and deliver or cause to be
executed and delivered such further instruments of conveyance, assignment and
transfer and shall take such other action as Participant may reasonably request
to give effect to the foregoing assignment.

         18. Termination. This Agreement shall terminate upon the complete
payment of all amounts due and satisfaction of all obligations of the Borrowers
under the Participation Loan.

         19. Notices. All notices, demands, consents, approvals and other
communications hereunder (collectively, "notices") shall be in writing or by
facsimile transmission and delivered




                                       9
<PAGE>

to the parties at their respective addresses set forth below, and the same shall
be deemed to have been given or made when delivered by courier or if made by
facsimile transaction, upon receipt of the answer back code of the designed
party after transmission to the designated party or if made by mail, then three
days after having been deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid by
registered or certified mail.

             Participant:          Woodward Holding, LLC
                                   2300 Harmon Road
                                   Auburn Hills, MI 48326
                                   Attn: Paul Halpern
                                   Telephone:  (248) 340-2264
                                   Facsimile:  (248) 340-2258

             With a copy to:       Woodward Holding, LLC
                                   2300 Harmon Road
                                   Auburn Hills, MI 48326
                                   Attn: Alan L. Schlang
                                   Telephone:  (248) 340-2170
                                   Facsimile:  (248) 340-2175

             Lender:               Sun Communities Operating Limited Partnership
                                   31700 Middlebelt Road, Suite 145
                                   Farmington Hills, Michigan 48334
                                   Attn: Gary A. Shiffman
                                   Telephone:  (248) 932-3100
                                   Facsimile:  (248) 932-3072

             With a copy to:       Jaffe, Raitt, Heuer & Weiss, P.C.
                                   One Woodward Avenue, Suite 2400
                                   Detroit, MI 48226
                                   Attn: Matthew Murphy
                                   Telephone:  (313) 961-8380
                                   Facsimile:  (313) 961-8358

         20. Assignments; Successors and Assigns. Participant warrants and
represents to Lender that its Participation in the Participation Loan is being
purchased for its own account and not for the purpose or intent of resale.
Participant hereby acknowledges that in reliance upon the foregoing warranty and
representation of Participant, Lender has not registered this loan participation
under the Federal Securities Act of 1933 (as amended) or under any state or
local laws. Except as otherwise permitted in this Agreement, neither Lender nor
Participant shall sell, pledge, assign or otherwise transfer all or a portion of
its interest in the Participation Loan or any of its rights or obligations under
this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party. Subject to
the foregoing, all provisions contained in this Agreement or related hereto
shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon the respective permitted
successors and assigns of Lender and Participant.




                                       10
<PAGE>

         21. No Partnership; No Trust. Neither the execution of this Agreement,
nor any agreement to share in the profits or losses arising as a result of the
Participation created hereby, is intended to be or to create, nor will be
construed to be or create, a partnership, joint venture or other joint
enterprise between Lender and Participant.

         Neither the execution of this Agreement, nor Lender's holding the Loan
Documents in its own name, nor the servicing of the Participation Loan by
Lender, nor any other right, duty, or obligation of Lender under or pursuant to
any Loan Document or this Agreement, is intended to be or to create, nor will be
a constructive trust or other fiduciary relationship between Lender and
Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (a) Lender and Participant agree
that any payment relating to a purchase of a participation interest by either
party to this Agreement received by the other party pursuant to Section 2 or 3
shall not be deemed to be the property of the receiving party and shall be held
in trust by the receiving party for the benefit of the purchasing party until
either (i) advanced by the receiving party under an advance request or (ii)
applied by the receiving party as reimbursement for an advance made by the
receiving party prior to receipt by the receiving party of an amount equal to
the purchasing party's participation percentage in such advance, and (b) Lender
agrees that a pro rata portion (based on the Participant's Participation
Percentage) of (i) any proceeds of Collateral received by Lender, and (ii) any
payments of principal, interest, penalties, fees or costs received by Lender
with respect to the Participation Loan, shall not be deemed to be the property
of Lender and shall be held in trust by Lender for the benefit of Participant
until remitted to Participant in accordance with this Agreement.

         22. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Michigan.

         23. Captions. The Paragraph captions in this Agreement have been
inserted solely for ease of reference, and are not a part of this Agreement.

         24. Entire Agreement. This Agreement embodies the entire agreement and
understanding between Lender and Participant and supersedes any and all prior
agreements and understandings with respect to the subject matter hereof. This
Agreement may not be amended or in any manner modified unless such amendment or
modification is in writing and signed by both parties. This Agreement may be
executed by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so
executed and delivered shall be an original, but all such counterparts shall
together constitute but one and the same instrument. If any provision hereof
would be invalid under applicable law, then such provision shall be deemed to be
modified to the extent necessary to render it valid, while most nearly
preserving its original intent; no provision hereof shall be affected by another
provision being held invalid.

         25. Dispute Resolution. Any and all disputes, controversies or claims
arising out of or related in any way to this Agreement shall be resolved as
provided in this Section 24; provided, however, that either party may seek a
preliminary injunction or other provisional judicial relief if, in its judgment,
such action is necessary to avoid irreparable damage or to preserve the status
quo. Despite any such action, the parties will continue to participate in good
faith in the





                                       11
<PAGE>

procedures set forth in this Section 24. The parties shall meet promptly to make
a good faith effort to resolve any dispute arising under this Agreement. If the
good faith attempts to resolve the dispute are unsuccessful, the parties shall
submit such dispute to arbitration. All such arbitration proceedings shall be
held in the Detroit, Michigan metropolitan area and shall be conducted under the
rules of the American Arbitration Association (the "Rules"). A single arbitrator
(the "Arbitrator") mutually agreeable to the parties shall preside over such
proceedings and shall make all decisions with respect to the resolution of the
dispute, controversy or claim between the parties. In the event the parties are
unable to agree on the Arbitrator within fifteen (15) days after either party
has filed for arbitration in accordance with the Rules, they shall select a
truly neutral arbitrator in accordance with the Rules for the selection of
neutral arbitrators, who shall be the "Arbitrator" for the purposes of this
Section 24. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the
parties, and a judgment may be entered in a court of competent jurisdiction in
order to enforce the Arbitrator's award. The parties shall be entitled to
reasonable levels of discovery (as determined by the Arbitrator in his or her
sole and absolute discretion) in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure. The parties also hereby acknowledge that it is their intent to
expedite the resolution of the dispute, controversy or claim in question, and
that the Arbitrator shall schedule the timing of the hearing consistent with
that intent. During the course of the proceedings, all fees to be paid to the
Arbitrator, and all expenses incurred by the Arbitrator in connection with the
arbitration, shall be borne equally by the parties. However, the Arbitrator
shall award all costs, expenses and fees, including without limitation the
Arbitrator's costs, expenses and fees and the prevailing party's reasonable
attorneys' fees, to the party prevailing in the Arbitration as part of any
award.

                            [signature page attached]



                                       12
<PAGE>



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the
date first written above.

                                  "LENDER"

                                  SUN COMMUNITIES OPERATING LIMITED
                                  PARTNERSHIP, a Michigan limited partnership


                                  By:   Sun Communities, Inc., a Maryland
                                        corporation
                                  Its:  General Partner

                                        By:      /s/ Gary A. Shiffman
                                                 -------------------------------

                                        Its:     Chief Executive Officer
                                                 -------------------------------


                                  "PARTICIPANT"

                                  Woodward Holding, LLC


                                  By: /s/ Paul A. Halpern
                                     -------------------------------------------

                                  Its: Manager
                                       -----------------------------------------





                                       13


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12.1
<SEQUENCE>21
<FILENAME>k68295ex12-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
<TEXT>
<PAGE>


                                  EXHIBIT 12.1

                COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
   AND RATIO OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED DISTRIBUTIONS

      The ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the Company (including its
subsidiaries and majority-owned partnerships) presents the relationship of the
Company's earnings to its fixed charges. "Earnings" as used in the computation,
is based on the Company's net income from operations (which includes a charge to
income for depreciation and amortization expense) plus fixed charges. "Fixed
charges" is comprised of (i) interest charges, whether expensed or capitalized,
(ii) amortization of loan costs and discounts or premiums relating to
indebtedness of the Company and its subsidiaries and majority-owned
partnerships, excluding in all cases items which would be or are eliminated in
consolidation, and (iii) preferred stock or OP Unit distributions.

      The Company's ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges presents the
relationship of the Company's earnings (as defined above) to fixed charges (as
defined above).

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Year Ended December 31
                                                              ----------------------
                                         2001           2000           1999           1998           1997
                                         ----           ----           ----           ----           ----
                                                             (unaudited, in thousands)
<S>                                     <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Earnings:
 Net income (before minority
       interest) ...............        $47,246        $46,304        $37,435        $32,054        $27,927
 Add fixed charges other than
 capitalized interest ..........         31,016         29,651         27,289         23,987         14,423
                                        -------        -------        -------        -------        -------
                                        $78,262        $75,955        $64,724        $56,041        $42,350
                                        =======        =======        =======        =======        =======

Fixed Charges:
 Interest expense ..............        $31,016        $29,651        $27,289        $23,987        $14,423
 Preferred OP Unit distributions          8,131          7,826          3,663          2,505          2,505
 Capitalized interest ..........          3,704          3,148          2,230          1,045            756
                                        -------        -------        -------        -------        -------
 Total fixed charges ...........        $42,851        $40,625        $33,182        $27,537        $17,684
                                        =======        =======        =======        =======        =======

Ratio of earnings to
  fixed charges ................           1.83           1.87           1.95           2.03           2.39
                                        =======        =======        =======        =======        =======
</TABLE>









</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>22
<FILENAME>k68295ex21.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                              SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.

                        EXHIBIT 21 - LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

      Main operating subsidiary:

Sun Communities Operating Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership

      Other subsidiaries (wholly-owned):

SCF Manager, Inc., a Michigan corporation

SCN Manager, Inc., a Michigan corporation

Sun Acquiring, Inc., a Kansas corporation

Sun Florida QRS, Inc., a Michigan corporation

Sun Houston QRS, Inc., a Michigan corporation

Sun QRS, Inc., a Michigan corporation

Sun Texas QRS, Inc., a Michigan corporation

Sun MHC Development, LLC, a Michigan limited liability company

Highland West Development, LLC, a New Mexico limited liability company


          Subsidiaries of Sun Communities Operating Limited Partnership

8920 Associates, a Florida general partnership

Apple Orchard, LLC, a Michigan limited liability company

Arizona Finance L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Aspen-Allendale Project, L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Aspen-Alpine Project, L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Aspen-Arbor Terrace, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership

Aspen-Bonita Lake Resort Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership

Aspen-Brentwood Project, L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Aspen-Byron Project, L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Aspen-Country Project, L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Aspen-Ft. Collins Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership

Aspen-Grand Project, L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Aspen-Holland Estates, L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Aspen-Indian Project Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership

Aspen-Kings Court, L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Aspen-Paradise Park II Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership
<PAGE>
                              SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.

                  EXHIBIT 21 - LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES, CONTINUED

Aspen-Presidential Project, L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Aspen-Siesta Bay Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership

Aspen-Silver Star II Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership

Aspen-Town & Country Associates II, L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Bright Insurance Agency, Inc., a Michigan corporation

Family Retreat, Inc., a Michigan corporation

Knollwood Estates Operating Company L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Miami Lakes Venture Associates, a Florida general partnership

Mt. Morris MHC, L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Priority Entertainment L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

River Haven Operating Company L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Snowbird Concessions, Inc., a Texas corporation

SunChamp, LLC, a Michigan limited liability company

Sun Communities Acquisitions, LLC, a Michigan limited liability company

Sun Communities Finance, LLC, a Michigan limited liability company

Sun Communities Funding Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership

Sun Communities Houston Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership

Sun Communities Mezzanine Lender, LLC, a Michigan limited liability company

Sun Communities Nevada GP L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Sun Communities Nevada Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership

Sun Communities Texas Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership

Sun Communities Texas Mezzanine Lender Limited Partnership., a Michigan limited
partnership

Sun Communities Funding GP L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Sun/Forest LLC, a Michigan limited liability company

Sun/Forest Holdings LLC, a Michigan limited liability company

Sun GP L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

Sun Home Services, Inc., a Michigan corporation

SUI TRS, Inc., a Michigan corporation
<PAGE>
                              SUN COMMUNITIES, INC.

                  EXHIBIT 21 - LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES, CONTINUED

Sun TRS, Inc., a Michigan corporation

Sun Water Oak Golf, Inc., a Michigan corporation

Sun/York L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

White Oak Estates, L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company

White Oak Estates Holding, L.L.C., a Michigan limited liability company




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>23
<FILENAME>k68295ex23.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                   EXHIBIT 23

                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements of
Sun Communities, Inc. on Form S-3 (File No. 333-54718, File No. 333-86237, File
No. 333-64271, File No. 333-14595, File No. 333-45273, File No. 333-72461, File
No. 333-30462, File No. 333-72668, File No. 333-82392, File No. 333-19855, File
No. 333-36541, and File No. 333-1822) and on Form S-8 (File No. 333-11923, File
No. 333-82479, File No. 333-76400, and File No. 333-76398) of our report dated
February 19, 2002 relating to the consolidated financial statements and
financial statement schedule of Sun Communities, Inc. in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
Detroit, Michigan
March 26, 2002

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
