-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 I9EwkEJOyjpqduNXfR6EU58taj3NMk8j2d6olWcJsFY45U51vNp4wpets8UUJtn6
 hk2zHZYhmxYv3X0cBwqXag==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000912057-97-011332.txt : 19970401
<SEC-HEADER>0000912057-97-011332.hdr.sgml : 19970401
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000912057-97-011332
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19961231
FILED AS OF DATE:		19970331
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000889609
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SHORT-TERM BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS [6153]
		IRS NUMBER:				330459135
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14116
		FILM NUMBER:		97570436

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2 ADA STE 100
		CITY:			IRVINE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92718
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7147536800
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K
[ x ] ANNUAL REPORT UNDER SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
ACT OF 1934 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
[   ] TRANSITION REPORT UNDER SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission file number: 1-14116

CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

California                               33-0459135
(State or other jurisdiction of          (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)           Identification No.)

2 Ada, Irvine, California                92618
(Address of principal executive          (Zip Code)
offices)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (714) 753-6800

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class:  Rising Interest Subordinated Redeemable 
Securities due 2006
Name of each exchange on which registered:  New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act:  Common 
stock, no par value

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act during 
the past 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was 
required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing 
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes / x /  No /   /  

Indicate by check mark if there is no disclosure of delinquent filers 
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K contained herein, and will not be 
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or 
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. /   /

The aggregate market value on March 27, 1996 (based on the $8.00 average 
of closing bid and asked prices on Nasdaq Stock Market on that date) of 
the voting stock beneficially held by non-affiliates of the registrant 
was $72,793,112.  The number of shares of the registrant's Common 
Stock outstanding on March 27, 1997 was 13,779,442

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:  The Registrant's proxy statement 
for its 1997 annual meeting of shareholders is incorporated by reference 
into Part III of this report.

<PAGE>

Part I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

A description of the business of Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc. (the 
"Registrant" or the "Company") appears as pages 31 through 47 of the preliminary
prospectus ("Preliminary Prospectus") included in amendment number 3 to the
registrant's registration statement, file number 333-21289, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on March 28, 1997.  Such description is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 2. PROPERTY

The information appearing at page 47 of the Preliminary Prospectus under 
the caption "Property" is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

As of the date of this report, the registrant is not involved in any 
material litigation in which it is the defendant.  The registrant 
regularly initiates legal proceedings as a plaintiff in connection with 
its routine collection activities.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Not applicable.


PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information appearing at page 18 of the Preliminary Prospectus under the
caption "Price Range of Common Stock and Dividend Policy" is incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The information appearing at pages 20 and 21 of the Registration Statement under
the caption "Selected Consolidated Financial Data" is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

The text appearing at pages 22 through 30 of the Preliminary Prospectus under
the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The information appearing at page 68 of the Preliminary Prospectus and pages F-1
through F-25 of the Preliminary Prospectus, comprising an index to Consolidated
Financial Statements, an Independent Auditors' Report, Consolidated Financial
Statements and Notes thereto, is incorporated herein by reference.

<PAGE>

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.


PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Information regarding directors of the registrant is incorporated by reference
to the registrant's definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of
shareholders to be held in 1997 (the "1997 Proxy Statement"). The 1997 Proxy
Statement will be filed not later than April 30, 1997.  Information regarding
executive officers of the registrant is incorporated by reference to the
information appearing on pages 48 through 50 of the Preliminary Prospectus under
the caption "Management."

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Incorporated by reference to the 1997 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Incorporated by reference to the 1997 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Incorporated by reference to the 1997 Proxy Statement.

PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) Exhibits

The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:

Exhibit
  No. 
Exhibit 3.1    Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company, as 
amended on December 13, 1993, and March 7, 1996.(A)
Exhibit 3.2    Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company, adopted 
November 30, 1993. (B)
Exhibit 4.1    The Indenture dated December 15, 1995, between Consumer 
Portfolio Services, Inc., and Harris Trust and Savings Bank. (E)
Exhibit 4.2    First Supplemental Indenture dated December 15, 1995, 
between Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc., and Harris Trust and Savings 
Bank. (E)
Exhibit 10.1   1991 Stock Option Plan as amended on April 27, 1994, and 
forms of  Stock Option Agreement. (B)
Exhibit 10.2   Lease Agreement dated February 14, 1991 between Holdings 
and Irvine Technology Partners ("ITP"), First Amendment to Lease dated as 
of June 26, 1992 by and among ITP, Holdings and the Company and 
Assignment and Assumption of Lease dated April 1, 1992 by and between 

<PAGE>

Holdings and the Company. (C)
Exhibit 10.3   Amendment #2, dated January 17, 1995, between ITP and 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc., to Lease Agreement dated February 14, 
1991, between Holdings and Irvine Technology Partners ("ITP"), First
Amendment to Lease dated as of June 26, 1992, by and among ITP, Holdings 
and the Company and Assignment and Assumption of Lease dated April 1, 
1992, by and between Holdings and the Company.(D)
Exhibit 10.4   Form of Automobile Dealer Agreement between the Company 
and its Dealers and the related Assignment. (C)
Exhibit 10.5   Consulting Agreement dated February 14, 1996, by and 
between the Company and Stanwich Partners, Inc.(A)
Exhibit 10.6   The Receivables Funding and Servicing Agreement, dated 
June 1, 1995, between Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc., CPS Funding 
Corp., Redwood Receivables Corporation and General Electric Capital 
Corporation.(A)
Exhibit 10.7   Amended and Restated Motor Vehicle Installment Contract 
Loan and Security Agreement, dated June 1, 1995, between Consumer 
Portfolio Services, Inc., and General Electric Capital Corporation.(A)
Exhibit 10.8   Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated August 30, 1995, 
between Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc., and CPS Holdings, Inc. (F)
Exhibit 10.9   Promissory Note, dated September 27, 1995, made by the 
Company in favor of Charles E. Bradley, Sr., in the aggregate principal 
amount of $2,000,000.(A)
Exhibit 10.10  Promissory Note, dated July 6, 1995, made by the Company 
in favor of SunAmerica, Inc., in the aggregate principal amount of 
$2,000,000.(A)
Exhibit 10.11  Lease Agreement dated December 9, 1996 between the Company 
and The Prudential Insurance Company of America, relating to the 
Company's branch facility in Chesapeake, Virginia.
Exhibit 11.0   Statement re Computation of Per Share Earnings.
Exhibit 21.1   Subsidiaries of the Company.
Exhibit 23.1   Consent of independent auditors.
Exhibit 24.    Director Powers of Attorney.
Exhibit 27.    Financial Data Schedule.
Exhibit 99.1   Pages 18, 20 through 47, 68 and F-1 through F-25 of the
preliminary prospectus included in registrant's registration statement on Form
S-3, file number 333-21289, amendment number 3 thereto, as filed March 28, 1997.
____________________
A. Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-KSB for the 
transition period ended December 31, 1995, and incorporated herein by 
reference.
B. Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-KSB for the 
fiscal year ended March 31, 1994, and incorporated herein by reference.
C. Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement 
on Form S-1, No. 33-49770, as amended, and incorporated herein by 
reference.
D. Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-KSB for the 
fiscal year ended March 31, 1995, and incorporated herein by reference.
E. Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K, filed on 
December 26, 1995, and incorporated herein by reference.
F. Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company's Proxy Statement for 
the September 26, 1995, Annual Meeting, and incorporated herein by 
reference.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

During the last quarter of the fiscal year ended December 1996, two reports on 

<PAGE>

Form 8-K were filed by the Company.  Each of such two reports included 
responses to Items 5 and 7 of Form 8-K relating to "Other Information," 
and "Financial Statement and Exhibits," respectively.  No financial 
statements were filed with either of such reports on Form 8-K.  Each of 
such two reports related to the Company's December 1996 sale of Contracts 
in a securitization transaction.

The first of the two reports, dated December 19, 1996 and filed December 
23, 1996, filed the forms of Underwriting Agreement, Pooling and 
Servicing Agreement and Receivables Purchase Agreement relating to that 
transaction, and the second, dated December 11, 1996 and filed December 
19, 1996, filed computational materials relating to the securitization 
transaction.

<PAGE>

SIGNATURES

 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its 
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
(Registrant)

* /s/Jeffrey P. Fritz                     Date:  March 28, 1997
  Jeffrey P. Fritz
  Sr. Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

* /s/                                      Date:  March 28, 1997
  Charles E. Bradley, Sr.
  Chairman of the Board

* /s/                                      Date:  March 28, 1997
  Charles E. Bradley, Jr.
  Director, President and Chief Executive Officer
  (Principal Executive Officer)

* /s/                                      Date:  March 28, 1997
  William B. Roberts
  Director

* /s/                                      Date:  March 28, 1997
  John G. Poole
  Director

* /s/                                      Date:  March 28, 1997
  Thomas L. Chrystie
  Director

                                           Date:
  Robert A. Simms
  Director

  /s/ Jeffrey P. Fritz                     Date:  March 28, 1997
  Jeffrey P. Fritz
  Chief Financial Officer
  (Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer)


* /s/ Jeffrey P. Fritz                      Date:  March 28, 1997
By Jeffrey P. Fritz, Attorney-in-fact

<PAGE>

EXHIBIT INDEX

The following exhibits are filed herewith:

Exhibit 10.11  Lease Agreement dated December 9, 1996 between the Company 
and The Prudential Insurance Company of America, relating to the 
Company's branch facility in Chesapeake, Virginia.
Exhibit 11.0   Statement re Computation of Per Share Earnings.
Exhibit 21.1   Subsidiaries of the Company.
Exhibit 23.1   Consent of independent auditors.
Exhibit 24.    Director Powers of Attorney.
Exhibit 27.    Financial Data Schedule.
Exhibit 99.1   Pages 18, 20 through 47, 68 and F-1 through F-25 of the
preliminary prospectus included in registrant's registration statement on Form
S-3, file number 333-21289, amendment number 3 thereto, as filed March 28, 1997.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.11
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.11
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

OFFICE LEASE



GREENBRIER TOWER I



LANDLORD:
THE PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE COMPANY OF AMERICA



TENANT:
CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, a California corporation

<PAGE>

INDEX

Article I                               Basic Lease Information 3
Article II                                             Premises 4
Article III                                                Term 4
Article IV                                            Base Rent 4
Article V Increases In Operating Expenses and Real Estate Taxes 6
Article VI                                      Use of Premises 8
Article VI                            Assignment and Subletting 9
Article VIII                             Maintenance by Tenant 11
Article IX                                  Tenant Alterations 11
Article X                                   Signs; Furnishings 13
Article XI                                  Tenant's Equipment 13
Article XII                                   Security Deposit 14
Article XIII                                        Inspection 14
Article XIV                                          Insurance 14
Article XV                              Services and Utilities 15
Article XVI                              Liability of Landlord 15
Article XVII                             Rules and Regulations 16
Article XVIII                                           Damage 17
Article XIX                                       Condemnation 17
Article XX                                   Default of Tenant 18
Article XXI                                         Bankruptcy 20
Article XXII                                     Subordination 20
Article XXIII                    Delivery at End of Lease Term 21
Article XXIV                              Covenant of Landlord 22
Article XXV                               ERISA Representation 22
Article XXVI                                General Provisions 22

EXHIBIT A     FLOOR PLANS                                      26
EXHIBIT B     AGREEMENT FOR CONSTRUCTION                       27
Exhibit B.1                                  Building Standard 31
Exhibit B.2    Preliminary and Final Working Drawings Schedule 32
EXHIBIT C    CERTIFICATE AFFIRMING THE LEASE COMMENCEMENT DATE 33
EXHIBIT D                                RULES AND REGULATIONS 34
EXHIBIT E                                         PARKING PLAN 37
EXHIBIT F                                ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS 38

<PAGE>

OFFICE LEASE

    THIS DEED OF LEASE ("Lease") is made this 9th day of December 1996, by The
Prudential Insurance Company of America, a New Jersey corporation (hereinafter
referred to as "Landlord") and Consumer Portfolio Services, a California
corporation (hereinafter referred to as "Tenant").

    WHEREAS, Landlord is the owner of an office building located at 860
Greenbrier Circle, Chesapeake, Virginia 23320 (hereinafter referred to as
"Building"); and

    WHEREAS, Tenant desires to lease space in the Building and Landlord is
willing to rent and demise to Tenant space in the Building, upon the terms,
conditions, covenants and agreements set forth herein.

    NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, intending legally to be bound, hereby
covenant and agree as set forth below.


ARTICLE I   BASIC LEASE INFORMATION.

    1.1  (a)  Building:  A six story office building containing approximately
88,209 square feet of net rentable area and located at 860 Greenbrier Circle,
Chesapeake, Virginia 23320.

         (b)  Premises:  Approximately Eighteen Thousand Six Hundred Nineteen
(18,619) square feet of rentable area located on the sixth (6th) and fifth (5th)
floor of the Building as identified on Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part
hereof.  **Approximately 16,341 square feet known as Suite 600 and
approximately 2,278 square feet known as Suite 500, for a total of

         (c)  Parking Space Allotment:  Right to 74 parking spaces.

         (d)  Lease Term: One Hundred Twenty-six (126) months.

         (e)  Anticipated Occupancy Date: March 15, 1997.

         (f)  Base Rent: Two Hundred Sixty Thousand Six Hundred Sixty-six and
04/100ths dollars ($260,666.04) for the first Lease Year in monthly installments
of $21,722.17, which amount is subject to adjustment provided in Exhibit G
attached hereto and made apart hereof.

         (g)  Base Operating Expenses:  Operating Expanses paid or incurred by
Landlord in calendar year 1997.

         (h)  Base Real Estate Taxes:  Real Estate Taxes for 1997.

         (i)  Tenant's Percentage: The ratio that the square feet of rentable
area in the Premises bears to the square feet of rentable area in the Building,
which Tenant's Percentage is agreed to be Twenty-one &

<PAGE>

11/100th percent (21.11%).

         (j)  Security Deposit:      n/a     Dollars ($n/a).

         (k)  Broker(s):     Robinson Sigma Commercial Real Estate, Inc. and
Harvey Lindsay Commercial Real Estate

         (l)  Tenant Address for Notices: 2 Ada, Irvine, California  92618,
until Tenant has commenced beneficial use of the Premises, and 860 Greenbrier
Circle #600, Chesapeake, VA  23320,after Tenant has commenced beneficial use of
the Premises.

         (m)  Guarantor(s):   n/a    .

***

<PAGE>

ARTICLE II   PREMISES.

2.1 Landlord hereby leases and demises to Tenant and Tenant hereby leases and
rents from Landlord the Premises for the term and upon the terms, conditions,
covenants, and agreements hereinafter provided.  The lease of the Premises
includes the right, together with other tenants of the Building and members of
the public, to use the common public areas of the Building, but includes no
other rights not specifically set forth herein.

    2.2  Tenant shall have the right to the use on an unassigned and
non-exclusive basis parking spaces in the area shown on Exhibit E, as such area
may be revised or relocated from time to time by Landlord, up to the Parking
Space Allotment.  Tenant covenants and agrees to comply with all reasonable
rules and regulations which Landlord or the contract manager may make hereafter
from time to time with respect to the use of the parking areas.  Landlord's
remedies under such rules and regulations may include, but shall not be limited
to, the right to tow away at owner's expense any vehicles not parked in
compliance with these rules and regulations.  Landlord shall not be responsible
to Tenant for the noncompliance or breach of such rules and regulations by any
other tenant, its agents, employees and invitees or members of the public who
may park in the parking areas.  Landlord acknowledges that parking areas shall
be used for their intended purpose such that Tenant shall have access to its
Parking Space Allotment during normal business hours.

ARTICLE III   TERM.

    3.1  The Lease Term and Tenant's obligation to pay rent hereunder shall
commence on the Lease Commencement Date, which shall be the date of Substantial
Completion of the Landlord's Work (as defined in Exhibit B), and the issuance by
the City.  If the Lease Commencement Date is not the first day of a month, then
the Lease Term shall be the period set forth above plus the partial month in
which the Lease Commencement Date occurs.  The date on which the Lease Term
expires shall be the Lease Expiration Date.

    3.2  Promptly after the Lease Commencement Date is ascertained, Landlord
and Tenant shall execute a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit C
hereto affirming the Lease Commencement Date and the Lease Expiration Date.

    3.3  It is presently anticipated that the Premises will be delivered to
Tenant on or about the Anticipated Occupancy Date.  It is understood and agreed
that in the event Substantial Completion of the Landlord's Work is delayed for
any reason whatsoever, this Lease shall not be void or voidable, nor shall
Landlord be liable to Tenant for any loss or damage resulting therefrom,
provided, however, that Tenant shall have no obligation to commence payment of
rent until the Lease Commencement Date and such delay shall not affect the
abatement of Base Rent as set forth in Paragraph 1 of Exhibit G.

    3.4  If for any reason other than the Tenant delays described in Paragraph
5 of Exhibit B, Landlord fails to deliever the Premises on or

<PAGE>

before the date ninety (90) days after the Anticipated Occupancy Date, then
Tenant may notify Landlord of Tenant's intention to cancel this Lease, and, if
Landlord has not delivered the Premises to Tenant within ten (10) days after
receipt of such cancellation notice (the "Outside Date"), Tenant may cancel this
Lease by giving written notice to Landlord no later than five (5) days after the
Outside Date.

ARTICLE IV   BASE RENT.

    4.1  Tenant shall pay Base Rent in advance, in equal monthly installments,
the first payment to be made upon the signing of this Lease by Tenant, and
subsequent monthly payments to be made on the first day of each calendar month
during the Lease Term.  (Subject to the abatement of Base Rent as set forth in
Paragraph 1 of Exhibit G).  If the Lease Term begins on a date other than on the
first day of a month, rent for the month of commencement shall be prorated at
the rate of one-thirtieth (1/30th) of the monthly installment of Base Rent for
each day, payable in advance of the Lease Commencement Date.  Tenant will pay
all rent to Landlord, at the office of Landlord, or to such other party or to
such other address as Landlord may designate from time to time by written notice
to Tenant.

    4.2  If Tenant fails to make any payment of the Base Rent, Additional [lent
or any other sum payable to Landlord on or before the date such payment is due
and payable (without regard to any grace period specified in Section 20.1), then
Tenant shall pay a late charge of five percent (5%) of the amount of such
payment.  In addition, such payment and such late fee shall bear interest at the
Default Rate as set forth in Section 20.5 from the date such payment was due to
the date of payment thereof.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Landlord agrees
that on no more than one (1) occasion during any twelve (12) month period during
the Lease term, Landlord shall waive such late charge and interest if payment is
received within five (5) days of notice that said payment has not been made.
Such late charge and interest shall constitute Additional Rent due hereunder,
shall be paid with the next monthly installment of Base Rent coming due
hereunder, shall constitute agreed liquidated damages and not penalties, and
shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, all other rights and remedies
provided to Landlord in this Lease, at law, or in equity.

ARTICLE V   INCREASES IN OPERATING EXPENSES AND REAL ESTATE TAXES.

    5.1  During each calendar year or portion thereof included in the Lease
Term and any renewal thereof, Tenant shall pay to Landlord as Additional Rent
Tenant's Percentage of any increase of Operating Expenses over the Base
Operating Expenses and Tenant's Percentage of any increase of Real Estate Taxes
over the Base Real Estate Taxes.

    5.2  Operating Expenses which are incurred with respect to both the
Building and the building located at 870 Greenbrier Circle shall be equitably
allocated by Landlord among the Building and the building located at 870
Greenbrier Circle to which the same relate or whose benefit the same have been
incurred, and only the portion allocated to the Building shall be included in
calculating the Operating Expenses for the Building.

<PAGE>

    5.3  Operating Expenses, as that term is used herein, shall be computed on
the accrual basis and shall mean all costs and expenses (excluding replacement
of capital investment items [other than as provided in item 10 below] or costs
specifically billed to and paid by specific tenants) which Landlord shall pay or
become obligated to pay in connection with the ownership, management, operation
and maintenance of the Building, including but not limited to, the following:

    (1)  Wages and salaries of all employees engaged in operating and
         maintenance or security of the Building, including taxes, insurance
         and benefits relating thereto.

    (2)  All supplies and materials used in operation and maintenance of the
         Building, including, without limitation, replacement light bulbs.

    (3)  Cost of all utilities (including surcharges) for the Building,
         including the cost of water, sewer, power, heating, lighting, air
         conditioning and ventilating for the Building.

    (4)  Cost of all maintenance and service agreements for the Building and
         the equipment therein, including but not limited to, security and
         energy management services, window cleaning, elevator maintenance and
         janitorial service.

    (5)  Cost of all insurance relating to the Building, including the cost of
         casualty and liability insurance applicable to the Building and
         Landlord's personal property used in connection therewith.

    (6)  Cost of repairs and general maintenance (excluding repairs 'Ind
         general maintenance paid by proceeds of insurance or by Tenant or
         other third parties, and alterations attributable solely to tenants of
         the Building other than Tenant).

    (7)  A management fee for the manager of the Building.

    (8)  Assessments imposed by any association now or hereafter established to
         maintain common areas and facilities of 860 Greenbrier Circle,
         Chesapeake, Virginia 23320 (which shall not include any items
         previously allocated to the Building pursuant to Paragraph 5.2).

    (9)  The costs of any additional services provided by Landlord in the
         prudent management of the Building.

    (10) The cost of any capital improvements made to the Building after the
         Lease Commencement Date that, in Landlord's reasonable judgment, are
         expected to result in a net reduction of Operating Expenses or are
         required under any governmental law or regulation that was not
         applicable to the Building as of the date of this lease, such cost
         thereof

<PAGE>

         to be amortized over such reasonable period as Landlord shall
         determine together with interest on the unamortized balance at a per
         annum rate equal to two percent (2%) over the Prime Rate published in
         the Wall Street Journal's Money Rates Column on the first business day
         such capital improvements are completed or if such rate is no longer
         published then the rate which is two percentage points in excess of
         the Prime Rate of NationsBank of Virginia, N.A. or such higher rate as
         may have been paid by Landlord on funds borrowed for the purpose of
         constructing said capital improvements.  Landlord acknowledges and
         agrees that Tenant's Percentage of the amortized cost of such capital
         improvements in any calendar year shall not exceed ten percent (10%)
         of Operating Expenses for such year.

    (11) All personal property taxes and any other taxes which may be assessed
         during the Lease Term as a result of this Lease, including any
         value-added tax, ad valorem tax or excise tax.  It is agreed that
         Tenant shall be responsible for all ad valorem taxes on Tenant's
         personal property.

    5.4  If the average occupancy rate for the Building during any calendar
year is less than one hundred percent (100%), or if any tenant is separately
paying for electricity, janitorial services or other services furnished to its
premises, then Operating Expenses which vary with occupancy for such calendar
year shall be deemed to include all additional expenses, as reasonably estimated
by Landlord, which would have been incurred during such calendar year if such
average occupancy rate had been one hundred percent (100%) and if Landlord paid
for electricity, janitorial services and other services furnished to such
premises.

    5.5  Real Estate Taxes, shall mean (i) all real estate taxes, including
general and special assessments, if any, which are imposed upon Landlord or
assessed against the Building and/or the land upon which the Building is located
(the "Land") during any calendar year, and (ii) any other present or future
taxes or governmental charges that are imposed upon Landlord or assessed against
the Building and/or the Land during any calendar year which are in the nature
of, in addition to or in substitution for real estate taxes, including, without
limitation, any license fees, tax measured by or imposed upon rents, or other
tax or charge upon Landlord's business of leasing the Building, but shall not
include any federal, state or local income tax.  Real Estate Taxes shall also
include such expenses, including but not limited to, legal fees, incurred by
Landlord in obtaining or attempting to obtain a reduction of any real estate
taxes, provided that Landlord shall have no obligation to contest, object to or
litigate the levying of any real estate taxes.

    5.6  Upon the commencement of the Lease Term and thereafter at or after the
beginning of each calendar year (or more frequently if deemed necessary by
Landlord) Landlord shall submit to Tenant a statement of Landlord's estimate on
an annual basis of any increase in Operating Expenses over the Base Operating
Expenses and of any increase in Real Estate Taxes over Base Real Estate Taxes
and within thirty (30) days after

<PAGE>

delivery of such statement Tenant shall pay to Landlord as Additional Rent, an
amount equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of the amount determined to be Tenant's
Percentage of such increases ("Tenant's Share").  In case such estimate is
submitted during the calendar year, Tenant shall include with the next monthly
installment of Base Rent (i) a lump sum payment to Landlord equal to one-twelfth
(1/12) of Tenant's Share multiplied by the number of months in such calendar
year that will have elapsed prior to the first month the payment required by
clause (ii) hereof is due and (ii) begin paying to the Landlord monthly as
Additional Rent, due and payable on the first day of each month an amount equal
to one-twelfth (1/12) of Tenant's Share.  Within one hundred twenty (120) days
after the expiration of each calendar year or as soon thereafter as is
reasonably practicable, Landlord shall submit a statement showing the
determination of the total actual increase in Operating Expenses and Real Estate
Taxes and Tenant's Share.  If such statement shows that Tenant's monthly
payments pursuant to this paragraph exceeded Tenant's Share of the actual
increases incurred for the preceding calendar year, then Tenant may deduct such
overpayments from its next payment or payments of monthly Base Rent until fully
reimbursed therefor.  If such statement shows that Tenant's Share of Landlord's
actual increases exceeded Tenant's monthly payments for the preceding calendar
year, the deficiency shall be paid by Tenant together with the next monthly
installment of Base Rent due.

    5.7  If the Lease Term commences or expires on a day other than the first
day or last day of a calendar year, respectively, then Tenant's liability for
its proportionate share of increases in Operating Expenses and Real Estate Taxes
incurred during such calendar year shall be apportioned by multiplying the
amount of Tenant's liability therefor for the full calendar year by a fraction,
the numerator of which is the number of days during such calendar year falling
within the Lease Term, and the denominator of which is 365.  Tenant's liability
for payment of its proportionate share of increases as aforesaid shall survive
expiration or termination of this Lease.  If Tenant's monthly payments exceed
its proportionate share, such excess shall be refunded by Landlord.

    5.8  For a period of 180 days following the date on which Landlord delivers
to Tenant the statement of actual costs as provided in Section 5.6 hereof,
Tenant shall have the right during business hours, at its sole cost and expense,
to retain a public accounting firm to examine Landlord's books and records at
Landlord's agent's office relating to Operating Expenses for the Building for
the year to which such statement relates.

ARTICLE VI   USE OF PREMISES.

    6.1  Tenant will use and occupy the Premises solely for general office
purposes consistent with a first class office building and only in accordance
with the uses permitted under applicable zoning and other municipal regulations
and for no other use or purpose.  Tenant will not use or occupy the Premises for
any unlawful purpose, or for any purpose that will constitute a nuisance or
unreasonable annoyance to Landlord or other tenants of the Building, and will
comply with all present and future laws, ordinances, regulations, and orders of
the United States of America, Commonwealth of Virginia, and any other public or
quasi-public authority

<PAGE>

having jurisdiction over the Premises.  Landlord shall obtain any initial
Certificate of Occupancy required at the time of the commencement of the Lease
Term.  Any amended or substitute certificate of occupancy necessitated by
Tenant's particular use of the Premises or any alterations made by Tenant in the
Premises shall be obtained by Tenant at Tenant's sole expense.

    6.2  Tenant shall not generate, use, store or dispose of any Hazardous
Material in or about the Building.  Hazardous Materials shall mean (a)
"hazardous wastes," as defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of
1976, as amended from time to time, (b) "hazardous substances," as defined by
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of
1980, as amended from time to time, (c) "toxic substances," as defined by the
Toxic Substances Control Act, as amended from time to time, (d) "hazardous
materials," as defined by the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, as amended
from time to time, (e) oil or other petroleum products, and (Q any substance
whose presence could be detrimental to the Building or hazardous to health or
the environment.  Tenant shall indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from any and
all claims, damages, fines, judgments, penalties, costs, liabilities or losses
arising during or after the Lease Term and arising from Tenant's breach of this
Section 6.2. The indemnification pursuant to this Section shall survive
termination or expiration of this Lease.

ARTICLE VII   ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING.

    7.1  Tenant shall not assign this Lease or any of Tenant's rights or
obligations hereunder, or sublet or permit anyone to occupy the Premises or any
part thereof, without Landlord's prior written consent.  No assignment or
transfer of this Lease may be effected by operation of law or otherwise without
Landlord's prior written consent.  The transfer, whether a single transfer or
multiple transfers, of fifty percent (50%) or more of the ownership interests of
Tenant within a twelve (12) month period shall be deemed equivalent to an
assignment or subletting requiring consent of Landlord.  Any attempted
assignment or subletting made without Landlord's consent shall at the option of
Landlord be deemed an Event of Default under this Lease.  Landlord's acceptance
or collection of rent from any assignee, subtenant or occupant shall not be
construed (i) as a consent to or acceptance of such assignee, subtenant or
occupant as a tenant, (ii) as a waiver by Landlord of any provision hereof,
(iii) as a waiver or release of Tenant from liability for the performance of any
obligation to be performed under this Lease by Tenant, or (iv) as relieving
Tenant or any assignee, subtenant or occupant from the obligation of obtaining
Landlord's prior written consent to any subsequent assignment, subletting or
occupancy.  Tenant hereby assigns to Landlord any rent due from any assignee,
subtenant or occupant of Tenant as security for Tenant's performance of its
obligations pursuant to this Lease.  Tenant authorizes each such assignee,
subtenant or occupant to pay such rent directly to Landlord if such assignee,
subtenant or occupant receives written notice from Landlord specifying that such
rent shall be paid directly to Landlord.  In the event of default by any
assignee of Tenant or any successor of Tenant in the performance of any of the
terms hereof, Landlord may proceed directly against Tenant without the necessity
of exhausting remedies against such

<PAGE>

assignee or successor.  Landlord may consent to subsequent assignment or
subletting of this Lease or amendments or modifications to this Lease with
assignees of Tenant, without notifying Tenant, or any successor of Tenant, and
without obtaining its or their consent thereto and such action shall not relieve
Tenant of liability under this Lease.  Tenant shall not mortgage this Lease
without Landlord's consent, which consent may be granted or withheld in
Landlord's sole discretion.  All restrictions and obligations imposed pursuant
to this Lease on Tenant shall be deemed to extend to any subtenant, assignee or
occupant of Tenant, and Tenant shall cause such persons to comply with all such
restrictions and obligations.  Tenant shall pay to Landlord a Five Hundred
Dollar ($500.00) processing fee as well as expenses (including reasonable
attorneys' fees) incurred by Landlord in connection with Tenant's request for
Landlord to give its consent to any assignment, subletting, occupancy or
mortgage, whether or not Landlord consents thereto.

    7.2  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 7.1 above, or of Section 7.3
below, a corporate Tenant may, without the consent of Landlord, assign this
Lease to its parent or subsidiary, or to any corporation resulting from a merger
or consolidation with Tenant or to any person or entity which acquires all the
assets of Tenant, provided the same assignee assumes, in full, the obligations
of Tenant under this Lease, and such assignment shall not relieve the Tenant of
its obligations hereunder.

    7.3  If at any time Tenant wants to assign, sublet or otherwise transfer
all or part of the Premises or this Lease, then Tenant shall give written notice
to Landlord ("Sublease Proposal Notice") of the area proposed to be assigned or
sublet (the "Proposed Sublet Space") and the term for which Tenant desires to
sublet the Proposed Sublet Space and such other information as Landlord shall
request.

    7.4  Landlord shall have the right in its sole and absolute discretion
either (i) to sublease the Proposed Sublet Space from Tenant for the term for
which Tenant has proposed to sublet such space, or (ii) to terminate this Lease
with respect to the Proposed Sublet Space.  Landlord shall exercise such right
by sending Tenant written notice within Thirty (30) days after Landlord's
receipt of the Sublease Proposal Notice.  If Landlord elects to sublease the
Proposed Sublet Space from Tenant, such sublease shall be at the same Base Rent
and additional rent as Tenant is obligated to pay for such space under this
Lease and otherwise upon the same terms and conditions as are contained in this
Lease, except that Landlord shall be entitled to sub-sublet the Proposed Sublet
Space without Tenant's consent and without paying to Tenant any amount in excess
of the rent and other charges payable to Tenant pursuant to its sublease with
Landlord.  If the Proposed Sublet Space does not constitute the entire Premises
and Landlord elects to terminate this Lease with respect to the Proposed Sublet
Space, then (1) Tenant shall tender the Proposed Sublet Space to Landlord on a
date specified in Landlord's notice (not more than sixty (60) days after the
date of such notice) as if such specified date had been originally set forth in
this Lease as the expiration date of the Lease Term with respect to the Proposed
Sublet Space, and (2) as to all portions of the Premises other than the Proposed
Sublet Space, this Lease shall remain in full force and effect except that the
Additional Rent payable pursuant

<PAGE>

to Section 4 and the Base Rent shall be reduced pro rata.  Tenant shall pay all
expenses of construction required to permit the operation of the Proposed Sublet
Space separate from the balance of the Premises, unless Landlord elects to
sublease or recapture such space, in which event landlord shall pay such
expenses.  If the Proposed Sublet Space constitutes the entire Premises and
Landlord elects to terminate this Lease, then (1) Tenant shall tender the
Premises to Landlord on a date specified in Landlord's notice (not more than
sixty (60) days after the date of such notice), and (2) the Lease Term shall
terminate on such specified date.

    7.5  In the event Landlord does not exercise its rights to sublet the
Proposed Sublet Space from Tenant or to terminate this Lease with respect
thereto, Tenant shall be entitled to seek Landlord's consent to an acceptable
assignee or subtenant for the Proposed Sublet Space, for a sublease term no
longer than that set forth in the Sublease Proposal Notice, such consent not to
be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.  Such consent or permission
may be withheld if (a) the subtenant or assignee is of a character or engaged in
a business which is not in keeping with the standards of Landlord for the
Building, (b) the purpose for which the subtenant or assignee intends to use the
Premises is in violation of the terms this Lease or the purposes for which the
subtenant or assignee intends to use the Premises are not in keeping with the
standards maintained by first-class commercial buildings similar to the
Building, (c) the purpose for which the subtenant or assignee intends to use the
Premises in violation of the terms of this lease, (d) Tenant is in default under
this Lease (e) the subtenant or assignee is either a government (or subdivision
or agency thereof) or a present occupant of the Building, (f) in the sole
judgment of Landlord, the assignee does not have the financial capacity to
undertake the obligations of this Lease or the sublease, (g) the assignee or
sublessee cannot comply with the requirements of the ERISA Representation at
Article XXV or (h) such a sublease or assignment would violate any term or
condition of any covenant or agreement of Landlord involving the Building, or
any other tenant lease within the Building.  In the event such an assignee or
subtenant acceptable to Landlord has not been found by Tenant and submitted for
Landlord's approval within one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of the
most recent Sublease Proposal Notice, Tenant shall not be entitled to enter into
any assignment or sublease without first submitting a new Sublease Proposal
Notice to Landlord and affording Landlord an opportunity to exercise its
sublefting or termination rights as set forth in Section 7.4.

    7.6  If any sublease, assignment or other transfer (whether by operation of
law or otherwise and whether consented to or not) provides that the subtenant,
assignee or other transferee is to pay as Rent for the Premises any amount in
excess of the rent and other charges due under this Lease (except rental or
other payments received which are attributable to the amortization of the cost
of leasehold improvements made to the sublet or assigned portion of the Premises
by Tenant for the subtenant or assignee, and other reasonable expenses incident
to the subletting or assignment, including standard leasing commissions), then
whether such excess is in the form of an increased monthly or annual rental, a
lump sum payment, payment for the sale, transfer or lease of Tenant's fixtures,
leasehold improvements, furniture and other personal property at values in

<PAGE>

excess of the fair market value of such fixtures, improvements, furniture or
personal property, or any other form (and if the subleased or assigned space
does not constitute the entire Premises, the existence of such excess shall be
determined on a pro rata basis), Tenant shall pay to Landlord any such excess as
Additional Rent upon such terms as shall be specified by Landlord and in no
event later than ten (10) days after Tenant's receipt thereof.  Tenant expressly
waives any right that it might have to retain such excess pursuant to the
provisions of section 365(f) of the Bankruptcy Code.  Landlord shall have the
right to inspect and audit Tenant's books and records relating to any sublease,
assignment or other transfer.  Any sublease, assignment or other transfer shall
be effected on a form approved by Landlord.

    7.7  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article VII, if
consent to any assignment or subletting is required by the holder of any
mortgage on the Building, no assignment or subletting shall be permitted without
the prior written consent of such holder.

    7.8  Notwithstanding the above, no assignment or subletting shall be
permitted to any assignee or sublessee which is (a) an employee benefit plan as
defined in Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
as amended, (b) an entity whose assets constitute plan assets of one or more
such plans within the meaning of 29 C.F.R. Section 2510.3-101, or (c) an entity
which is subject to state statutes regulating investments of and fiduciary
obligations with respect to governmental plans.

ARTICLE VIII   MAINTENANCE BY TENANT.

    8.1  Tenant will keep the Premises and fixtures and equipment therein in
clean, safe and sanitary condition, will take good care thereof, will suffer no
waste or injury thereto, and will, at the expiration or other termination of the
Lease Term, surrender the same, broom clean, in the same order and condition in
which they are on the Lease Commencement Date, ordinary wear and tear and
unavoidable damage by the elements excepted.  Landlord shall provide and install
all original fluorescent tubes to building standard lighting within the Premises
and all standard replacement tubes for such lighting; all other bulbs, tubes and
lighting fixtures for the Premises shall be provided and installed by Landlord.

    8.2  Landlord shall keep and maintain in good order and repair the base
building structure and systems, including the roof, exterior walls, elevators,
electrical, plumbing and HVAC systems, and the ground floor lobby and other
common areas and facilities of the Building.

ARTICLE IX   TENANT ALTERATIONS.

    9.1  The original improvement of the Premises shall be accomplished by
Landlord in accordance with Exhibit B. Landlord is under no obligation to make
any structural or other alterations, decorations, additions, improvements or
other changes (collectively "Alterations") in or to the Premises except as set
forth in Exhibit B or otherwise expressly provided in this Lease.  Any
additional Alterations, which are necessary in order

<PAGE>

for the Premises to comply with requirements of the Americans with Disabilities
Act or such other laws or amendments thereto which may be hereinafter enacted
during the term of this Lease or any extensions or renewals hereof shall be the
responsibility of Tenant, and Tenant hereby agrees to indemnify Landlord for any
loss, claim or damages incurred by Landlord as a result of Ten ant's failure to
make such additional Alterations.

    9.2  Tenant shall not make or permit anyone to make any Alterations in or
to the Premises or the Building, without Landlord's prior written consent, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld with respect to proposed Alterations
that are not visible from the exterior of the Premises, do not affect the
Building's structure, and do not impair the Building's mechanical, electrical,
plumbing or HVAC systems.  Any Alterations made by Tenant shall be made; (a) in
a good, workmanlike, first-class and prompt manner; (b) using new materials
only; (c) by a contractor and in accordance with plans and specifications
approved in writing by Landlord; (d) in accordance with all applicable legal
requirements and requirements of any insurance company insuring the Building or
portion thereof, including, but not limited to, compliance with the Americans
with Disabilities Act; and (e) after Tenant has obtained and delivered to
Landlord written, unconditional waivers of mechanics' and materialmen's liens
against the Premises and the Building from all proposed contractors,
subcontractors, laborers and material suppliers for all work and materials in
connection with such Alterations.  Upon completion of any such work, Tenant
shall pay to Landlord an amount equal to the lesser of ten percent (10%) of the
cost of such workor the actual cost incurred by Landlord, to reimburse Landlord
for the cost of coordination and final inspection of the work.  During the
course of performance of said work, Tenant will carry or cause to be carried
insurance as may from time to time be required by Landlord naming Landlord and
Landlord's managing agent as additional insureds and further providing that such
insurance cannot be canceled or reduced in amount without thirty (30) days prior
written notice to Landlord and Landlord's managing agent.  Landlord shall
require a guarantee by each of Tenant's prime contractors and materialmen for
the benefit of Landlord, Tenant and such other parties as Landlord shall
designate that all work performed and materials and equipment furnished by such
contractors will conform to the requirements of the plans and. specifications as
to the kind, quality, function of the equipment and characteristics of material
and workmanship and will remain so for a period of at least one year from the
date that the work has been completed, and in the event any deficiency, defects,
faults or imperfections of materials, equipment or workmanship shall appear
prior to the expiration of such period, the contractor upon receiving written
notice thereof from Landlord or Tenant will immediately correct and repair the
same at the expense of such contractor; said guarantees to be effective whether
or not any part of the aforesaid work has been subcontracted by the contractor.

    9.3  If any mechanic's or materialmen's lien or notice of intent with
respect thereto is filed against the Premises or the Building for work claimed
to have been done for, or materials claimed to have been furnished to, Tenant,
such lien shall be discharged by Tenant within thirty (30) days thereafter, at
Tenant's sole cost and expense, by the payment thereof or by

<PAGE>

filing any bond required by law, and Tenant hereby agrees to indemnify and save
Landlord harmless from any legal expenses which Landlord may reasonably incur as
a result of the filing of the lien or notice of intent and/or from any loss or
liability incurred as a result of any lien filed against the Premises and/or
Tenant.  If Tenant shall fail to discharge any such mechanic's or materialmen's
lien, Landlord may, at its option, discharge the same and treat the cost thereof
as Additional Rent payable with the monthly installment of rent next becoming
due; it being hereby expressly covenanted and agreed that such discharge by
Landlord shall not be deemed to waive or release the default of Tenant in not
discharging the same.  It is understood and agreed by Landlord and Tenant that
any such Alterations shall be conducted on behalf of Tenant and Landlord shall
have no liability with respect thereto.  It is further understood and agreed
that in the event Landlord shall give its written consent to Tenant's making any
such Alterations, such written consent shall not be deemed to be an agreement or
consent by Landlord to subject Landlord's interest in the Premises, the Building
or the Land to any mechanic's or materialmen's liens which may be filed in
respect of any such Alterations made by or on behalf of Tenant.

   9.4   All Alterations, including wall-to-wall carpet, upon the Premises
(whether with or without the prior written consent of Landlord) shall, at the
election of Landlord, remain upon the Premises, become property of Landlord, and
be surrendered with the Premises at the expiration of this Lease without
disturbance, molestation or injury, provided, however, that if Tenant is not in
default in the performance of any of its obligations under this Lease, Tenant
shall have the right to remove, prior to the expiration of the Lease Term, all
movable furniture, furnishings, or equipment installed in the Premises at the
expense of Tenant.  Should Landlord elect that Alterations made by Tenant upon
the Premises be removed upon termination of this Lease or upon termination of
any renewal period hereof, Tenant hereby agrees to cause same to be removed at
Tenant's sole cost and expense, and should Tenant fail to remove the same then
and in such event Landlord may cause same to be removed at Tenant's expense and
Tenant hereby agrees to reimburse Landlord for the cost of such removal together
with any and all damages which Landlord may suffer and sustain by reason of the
failure of Tenant to remove the same.

   9.5   Tenant will indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from and against any
and all expenses, liens, claims or damages to person or property which may or
might arise directly or indirectly by reason of the making of any such
Alterations, except to the extent such expenses, liens, claims or damages are
the result of Landlord's negligence or will ful misconduct.  If any such
Alteration is made without the prior written consent of Landlord, Landlord may
correct or remove the same, and Tenant shall be liable for any and all expenses
incurred by Landlord in the performance of this work.

ARTICLE X   SIGNS; FURNISHINGS.

   10.1  No sign, advertisement or notice shall be inscribed, painted, affixed
or otherwise displayed on any part of the outside or the inside of the Building
except on the directories and doors of offices, and then only in such place,
number, size, color and style as is approved by Landlord and

<PAGE>

provided by Landlord at Tenant's cost and expense; if any such sign,
advertisement or notice is nevertheless exhibited by Tenant, Landlord shall have
the right to remove the same and Tenant shall be liable for any and all expenses
incurred by Landlord in said removal.  Landlord shall have the right to prohibit
any advertisement of Tenant which in Landlord's opinion tends to impair the
reputation of the Building or its desirability as a high-quality building for
offices or for financial, legal, insurance and other institutions of like
nature, and upon written notice from Landlord, Tenant shall immediately refrain
from and discontinue any such advertisement.  Landlord reserves the right to
install and display signs, advertisements and notices on any part of the
exterior or interior of the Building.

   10.2  Landlord shall have the right to prescribe the weight and position of
safes and other heavy equipment or fixtures, which shall, if considered
necessary by Landlord, stand on plank strips to distribute the weight.  Any and
all damage or injury to the Premises or the Building caused by moving the
property of Tenant into, in or out of the Premises, or due to the same being on
the Premises, shall be repaired by, and at the sole cost of, Tenant.  No
furniture, equipment or other bulky reafter of any description will be received
into the Building or carried in the elevators except as approved by Landlord,
and all such furniture, equipment and other bulky matter shall be delivered only
through the designated delivery entrance of the Building.  All moving of
furniture, equipment and other bulky matter shall be under the direct control
and supervision of Landlord who shall, however, not be responsible for any
damage to or charges for moving the same.  Tenant agrees promptly to remove from
the sidewalks adjacent to the Building any of Tenant's furniture, equipment or
other material there delivered or deposited.

ARTICLE XI   TENANT'S EQUIPMENT.

   Tenant will not install or operate in the Premises any electrically operated
equipment or other machinery, other than standard electric typewriters, personal
computers, adding machines, radios, televisions, clocks and copying machines,
without first obtaining the prior written consent of Landlord, who may condition
such consent upon the payment of Tenant of additional rent in compensation for
such excess consumption of utilities as determined in the sole discretion of
Landlord and for the cost of separate metering or additional wiring as may be
occasioned by the operation of said equipment or machinery.  Tenant shall not
install any other equipment of any kind or nature whatsoever which will or may
necessitate any changes, replacements or additions to, or in the use of, the
water system, heating system, plumbing system, air-conditioning system, or
electrical system of the Premises or the Building without first obtaining the
prior written consent of Landlord.  Business machines and mechanical equipment
belonging to Tenant which cause noise or vibration that may be transmitted to
the structure of the Building or to any space therein to such a degree as to be
objectionable to Landlord or to any tenant shall be installed and maintained by
Tenant, at Tenant's expense, on vibration eliminators or other devices
sufficient to eliminate such noise and vibration.  Landlord reserves the right
to separately meter any utility consumption in the Premises.

<PAGE>

ARTICLE XII   SECURITY DEPOSIT.


ARTICLE XIII   INSPECTION.

   Tenant will permit Landlord, or its agents or other representatives, to
enter the Premises, without charge therefor to Landlord and without diminution
of the rent payable by Tenant, to examine, inspect and protect the Premises and
the Building and to make such alterations and/or repairs as in the sole judgment
of Landlord may be deemed necessary, or to exhibit the same to prospective
tenants, purchasers or mortgagees during the Lease Term.  In connection with any
such entry, Landlord shall endeavor to provide reasonable notice and to minimize
the disruption to Tenant's use of the Premises.

ARTICLE XIV INSURANCE.

   14.1  Landlord agrees that it will keep the Building insured against loss
due to fire and other property risks included in standard all risk coverage
insurance policies, and covering loss of income from such casualty, or in lieu
thereof, insure the Building against loss or damage as a self insurer.
Throughout the Lease Term, Tenant shall insure the contents of the Premises,
including, without limitation, alterations, decorations, furnishings, fixtures
and equipment used or installed in the Premises by or on behalf of Tenant, and
the other personal property of Tenant in the Premises, against loss due to fire
and other property risks included in standard all risk coverage insurance
policies, in an amount equal to the replacement cost thereof and covering loss
of income from such casualty.  All insurance carried by Tenant hereunder shall
be primary and not contributing with any insurance carried by Landlord.

   14.2  Landlord and Tenant agree to obtain and maintain throughout the term
of this Lease endorsements to their respective All Risk Coverage policies
waiving the right of subrogation of their insurance companies against the other
party and its agents and employees.  Each party hereto waives all claims for
recovery from the other party for any loss or damage to any of its property
arising from a risk insured against in the standard All Risk Coverage insurance
policies required to be carried pursuant to this article, even though such loss
was caused by the negligence of the Landlord or Tenant, their agents and
employees.

   14.3  Throughout the Lease Term, Tenant shall obtain commercial general
liability insurance on an occurrence basis protecting against any liability
occasioned by any occurrence on or about the Premises and containing contractual
liability coverage.  Such insurance shall be initially in minimum amounts of Two
Million Dollars ($2,000,000) per occurrence, and shall be for a minimum term of
one (1) year.  Each of said policies of insurance shall name Landlord and
Landlord's managing agent as an additional insured, and if requested by the
holder of any mortgage or deed of trust against the Building, the public
liability policy referred to above shall also name such holder as an additional
insured.  Each policy shall contain an endorsement which provides that no
cancellation or

<PAGE>

reduction of coverage may be made without first giving Landlord and, if named as
an additional insured, the holder of any mortgage or deed of trust on the
Building, at least thirty (30) days prior written notice of such proposed
action.  All insurance policies required under this Lease shall be issued by
insurance companies licensed to do business in the jurisdiction wherein the
Building is located with a financial rating of at least an A:Xll as rated in the
most recent edition of Best Insurance Reports and in business for the past five
(5) years.  On or before the Lease Commencement Date, and thereafter not less
than fifteen (15) days prior to the expiration dates of said policy or policies,
Tenant shall provide copies of policies or certificates of insurance (Accord 27)
evidencing the coverages required by this Section.  The aforesaid insurance
limits may be reasonably increased from time to time by Landlord.  Landlord
shall carry commercial general liability insurance with minimum coverage in at
least the amount specified above for Tenant.  Landlord may provide such coverage
by means of a blanket policy, and the cost of said insurance or the allocable
portion of the cost of Landlord's blanket policy shall be included as an
Operating Expense.

ARTICLE XV   SERVICES AND UTILITIES.

   Landlord will furnish the Premises air conditioning and heating during the
seasons they are required in Landlord's reasonable judgment.  Landlord will
furnish adequate electrical power for all powered office machines and lighting.
Landlord will provide: water; elevator service; exterior window cleaning
service; and janitorial service after 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday only
(excluding Federal and Commonwealth of Virginia holidays).  Landlord will
furnish all services and utilities required by this Lease only during the normal
hours of operation of the Building, as set forth in the rules and regulations
attached hereto as Exhibit D, unless otherwise specified herein.  It is also
agreed that if Tenant requires air conditioning or heat beyond the normal hours
of operation set forth herein, and provided arrangements are made with
Landlord's agent, Landlord will furnish such services (at the price stipulated
by Landlord from time to time) which shall be comparable to prices for similar
services charged by owners of similar buildings in the greater Norfolk
metropolitan area, at Tenant's expense.  It is understood and agreed that
Landlord shall not be liable for failure to furnish or for delay or suspension
in furnishing, any of the utilities or services required to be provided or
per-formed by Landlord caused by breakdown, maintenance, repairs, strikes,
scarcity of labor or materials, acts of God, voluntary agreement between
Landlord and any governmental body or agency or from any other cause whatsoever.
It is further agreed that any such failure or inability to furnish the utilities
or services required hereunder shall not be considered an eviction, actual or
constructive, of Tenant from the Premises, and shall not entitle Tenant to
terminate this Lease or to an abatement of any rent payable hereunder provided,
however, that if the aforesaid utilities or services are interrupted as the
result of the negligence or willful misconduct of Landlord for a period of more
than three (3) consecutive business days, and Tenant is unable to operate its
business in, or occupy the Premises, the rent payable hereunder shall abate
until such interruption is remedied.  Landlord shall use reasonable diligence to
repair promptly any failure, interruption or suspension which is within
Landlord's control.

<PAGE>

ARTICLE XVI   LIABILITY OF LANDLORD.

   16.1  Landlord, its employees and agents shall not be liable to Tenant, its
employees, agents, invitees or any other person or entity claiming through
Tenant for any damage (including indirect and consequential damage), injury,
loss or claim (including claims for the interruption of or loss to business)
based on or arising out of any cause whatsoever except to the extent caused by
the negligence or willful misconduct of Landlord, its employees and agents,
including without limitation the following: repair to any portion of the
Premises or the Building; interruption in the use of the Premises or any
equipment therein; any accident or damage resulting from any use or operation
(by Landlord, Tenant or any other person or entity) of elevators or heating,
cooling, electrical, sewerage or plumbing equipment or apparatus; termination of
this Lease by reason of damage to the Premises or the Building; fire, robbery,
theft, vandalism, mysterious disappearance or any other casualty; actions of any
other tenant of the Building or of any other person or entity; failure or
inability of Landlord to furnish any utility or service specified in this Lease;
any leakage in any part of the Premises or the Building, or from water, rain,
ice or snow that may leak into, or flow from, any part of the Premises or the
Building, or from drains, pipes or plumbing fixtures in the Premises or the
Building.  Any property stored or placed by Tenant or its employees, agents,
invitees or any other person or entity claiming through Tenant in or about the
Premises or the Building shall be at the sole risk of Tenant, and Landlord shall
not in any manner be held responsible therefor.  If any employee of Landlord
receives any package or article delivered for Tenant, then such employee shall
be acting as Tenant's agent for such purpose and not as Landlord's agent.  For
purposes of this Article, the term "Building" shall be deemed to include the
Land.

   16.2  Tenant shall indemnify and hold Landlord, its employees and agents
harmless from and against all costs, damages, claims, liabilities, fines, suits,
expenses and damages of any kind (including attorneys' fees) asserted by or on
behalf of any person, entity or governmental authority against Landlord,
directly or indirectly, based on or arising out of (a) Tenant's use and
occupancy of the Premises or the business conducted by Tenant therein, (b) any
act or omission of Tenant or any employee, agent, or invitee of Tenant while in
the Premises, (c) any failure of Tenant to perform any of Tenant's obligations
under this Lease, (d) any accident, injury or damage whatsoever caused to any
person, or the property of any person, occurring in or about the Premises,
except to the extent the same was caused by Landlord's negligence or willful
misconduct.

   16.3  If any landlord hereunder transfers the Building or such landlord's
interest therein, then such landlord shall not be liable for any obligation or
liability based on or arising out of any event or condition occurring on or
after the date of such transfer.  Within fifteen (i 5) days after any such
transferee's request, Tenant shall attorn to such transferee and-execute,
acknowledge and deliver any requisite or appropriate document submitted to
Tenant confirming such attornment, provided that the transferee shall expressly
assume in writing the obligations of Landlord under this Lease accruing on or
after the date of such transfer.

<PAGE>

   16.4  Tenant shall not have the right to offset or deduct the amount
allegedly owed to Tenant pursuant to any claim against Landlord from any rent or
other sum payable to Landlord.  Tenant's sole remedy for recovering upon such
claim shall be to institute an independent action against Landlord.  Tenant
shall not seek the consolidation of any such action brought by Tenant with any
action brought by Landlord hereunder.

   16.5  If Tenant or any employee, agent or invitee of Tenant is awarded a
money judgment against Landlord, then recourse for satisfaction of such judgment
shall be limited to execution against Landlord's estate and interest in the
Building, including any insurance proceeds paid to Landlord as a result of any
claim by an employee, agent or invitee of Tenant.  No other asset of Landlord,
any partner of Landlord or any other person or entity shall be available to
satisfy, or be subject to, such judgment, nor shall any such partner, person or
entity be held to have personal liability for satisfaction of any claim or
judgment against Landlord or any partner of Landlord.

ARTICLE XVII   RULES AND REGULATIONS.

   Tenant, its agents, employees, and invitees shall at all times abide by and
observe the rules and regulations attached hereto as Exhibit D. In addition,
Tenant, its agents, employees, and invitees, shall abide by and observe such
other rules or regulations as may be promulgated from time to time by Landlord,
with a copy sent to Tenant, for the operation and maintenance of the Building;
provided, however, that the same are not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Lease.  Nothing contained in this Lease shall be construed to impose upon
Landlord any duty or obligation to enforce such rules and regulations, or the
terms, conditions or covenants contained in any other lease, as against any
other tenant, and Landlord shall not be liable to Tenant for violation of the
same by any other tenant, its employees, agents, or invitees.  If there is any
inconsistency between this Lease and the rules and regulations as set forth in
Exhibit D, this Lease shall govern.

ARTICLE VIII   DAMAGE.

   18.1  If the Premises or the Building are totally or partially damaged or
destroyed thereby rendering the Premises totally or partially inaccessible or
unusable, then Landlord shall diligently repair and restore the Premises and the
Building to substantially the same condition they were in prior to such damage
or destruction; provided, however, that if (i) in Landlord's judgment such
repair and restoration cannot be completed within one hundred and twenty (120)
days after the occurrence of such damage or destruction (taking into account the
time needed for effecting a satisfactory settlement with any insurance company
involved, removal of debris, preparation of plans and issuance of all required
governmental permits) or (ii) twenty percent (20%) or more of the Premises is
damaged and less than six (6) months would remain of the Lease Term or any
renewal thereof upon completion of the repairs, then Landlord shall have the
right, at its sole option, to terminate this Lease as of the sixtieth (60th) day
after such damage or destruction by giving written notice of termination

<PAGE>

within forty-five (45) days after the occurrence of such damage or destruction.

   18.2  If this Lease is terminated pursuant to Section 18.1 above, then all
rent shall be apportioned (based on the portion of the Premises which is usable
after such damage or destruction) and paid to the date of termination.  If this
Lease is not terminated as a result of such damage or destruction, then until
such repair and restoration of the Premises are substantially complete, Tenant
shall be required to pay the Base Rent and Additional Rent only for the portion
of the Premises that is usable while such repair and restoration are being made.
Landlord shall bear the expenses of repairing and restoring the Premises and the
Building; provided, however, that Landlord shall not be required to repair or
restore the contents of the Premises, including without limitation,
alterations-, decorations, furnishings, fixtures and equipment used or installed
in the Premises by or on behalf of Tenant and any other personal property of
Tenant.  Tenant shall not be entitled to any compensation or damages from
Landlord for loss of the use of the whole or any portion of the Premises or for
any inconvenience or annoyance occasioned by any such damage, repair or
restoration.

   18.3  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Landlord shall not be
obligated to restore the Premises or the Building and shall have the right to
terminate this Lease if (a) the holder of any mortgage fails or refuses to make
insurance proceeds available for such repair and restoration, (b) zoning or
other applicable laws or regulations do not permit such repair and restoration,
or (c) the cost of repairing and restoring the Building would exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the replacement value of the Building, whether or not the
Premises are damaged or destroyed, provided the leases of all other tenants in
the Building are similarly terminated.

ARTICLE XIX   CONDEMNATION.

   19.1  If all or any portion of the Premises or occupancy thereof shall be
permanently taken or condemned by any governmental or quasi-governmental
authority for any public or quasi-public use or purpose or sold under threat of
such a taking or condemnation (collectively, "Condemnation"), and such
Condemnation shall materially and adversely affect Tenant's use of the Premises,
then this Lease shall terminate on the date possession thereof is taken by
authority and rent shall be apportioned as of such date.  In the event of the
Condemnation of any portion of the Premises which does not materially and
adversely affect Tenant's use of the Premises, then this Lease shall continue in
full force and effect as to the part of the Premises not Condemned, except that
as of the date possession is taken by such authority Tenant shall not be
required to pay the Base Rent and Additional Rent with respect to the part of
the Premises Condemned.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if
twenty-five (25%) or more of the Land or the Building is Condemned, then whether
or not any portion of the Premises is Condemned, Landlord shall have the right
to terminate this Lease as of the date title vests in such authority.

19.2     All awards, damages and other compensation paid by such authority

<PAGE>

on account of such Condemnation shall belong to Landlord, and Tenant assigns to
Landlord all rights to such awards, damages and compensation.  Tenant shall not
make any claim against Landlord or the authority for any portion of such award,
damages or compensation attributable to damage to the Premises, value of the
unexpired portion of the Lease Term, loss of profits or goodwill, leasehold
improvements or severance damages.  Tenant may, if allowed by statute, seek such
awards or damages for moving expenses, loss of profits and fixtures and other
equipment installed by it which do not, under the terms of this Lease, become
the property of Landlord at the termination hereof.  Such awards or damages must
be in an amount mutually agreed upon between Landlord and Tenant, or as
established by a condemnation court or other authority.

ARTICLE XX   DEFAULT OF TENANT.

   20.1  Each of the following shall constitute an Event of Default: (a)
Tenant's failure to make any payment of the Base Rent, Additional Rent or any
other sum where such failure to pay continues for five (5) days Landlord's
delivery of written notice of such failure to pay; (b) Tenant's failure to take
possession of the Premises within thirty (30) days after notice to Tenant that
the same are Substantially Complete; (c) Tenant's violation or failure to
perform or observe any other covenant or condition within thirty (30) days after
notice thereof from Landlord; or if such violation or failure is remediable but
is of such a nature that it cannot be remedied within such thirty day period,
then for such longer period as may reasonably be required provided that Tenant
promptly commences and diligently pursues such remedy to completion; (d)
Tenant's abandonment or vacation of the Premises; (e) an Event of Bankruptcy as
specified in Article XXI with respect to Tenant, any general partner of Tenant
(a "General Partner") or any Guarantor; or (f) Tenant's dissolution or
liquidation.

   20.2  If there shall be an Event of Default, including an Event of Default
prior to the Lease Commencement Date, then Landlord shall have the right, at its
sole option, to terminate this Lease.  In addition, with or without terminating
this Lease, Landlord may re-enter, terminate Tenant's right of possession and
take possession of the Premises.  The provisions of this Article shall operate
as a notice to quit, any other notice to quit or of Landlord's intention to
re-enter the Premises being hereby expressly waived.  If necessary, Landlord may
proceed to recover possession of the Premises under and by virtue of the laws of
the Commonwealth of Virginia, or by such other proceedings, including re-entry
and possession, as may be applicable.  If Landlord elects to terminate this
Lease and/or elects to terminate Tenant's right of possession, then everything
contained in this Lease to be done and performed by Landlord shall cease,
without prejudice, however, to Landlord's right to recover from Tenant all rent
and other sums accrued through the later of termination or Landlord's recovery
of possession.  Whether or not this Lease and/or Tenant's right of possession is
terminated, Landlord may, but shall not be obligated to, relet the Premises or
any part thereof, alone or together with other premises, for such rent and upon
such terms and conditions (which may include concessions or free rent and
alterations of the Premises) as Landlord, in its sole discretion, may determine,
but Landlord shall not be liable for, nor shall

<PAGE>

Tenant's obligations be diminished by reason of, Landlord's failure to relet the
Premises or collect any rent due upon such reletting.  Whether or not this Lease
is terminated, Tenant nevertheless shall remain liable for any Base Rent,
Additional Rent or damages which may be due or sustained prior to such default,
all costs, fees and expenses (including without limitation reasonable attorneys
fees, brokerage fees, expenses incurred in placing the Premises in rentable
condition and tenant finish necessitated to obtain the new tenant) incurred by
Landlord in pursuit of its remedies and in renting the Premises to others from
time to time.  Tenant shall also be liable for additional damages which at
Landlord's election shall be either:

         (a)  an amount equal to the Base Rent and additional rent which would
have become due during the remainder of the Lease Term, less the amount of
rental, if any, which Landlord receives during such period from others to whom
the Premises may be rented (other than any Additional Rent payable as a result
of any failure of such other person to perform any of its obligations), which
damages shall be computed and payable in monthly installments, in advance, on
the first day of each calendar month following Tenant's default and continuing
until the date on which the Lease Term would have expired but for Tenant's
default.  Separate suits may be brought to collect any such damages for any
month(s), and such suits shall not in any manner prejudice Landlord's right to
collect any such damages for any subsequent month(s), or Landlord may defer any
such suit until after the expiration of the Lease Term, in which event the cause
of action shall be deemed not to have accrued until the expiration of the Lease
Term; or

         (b)  an amount equal to the present value (as of the date of Tenant's
default) of the Base Rent and Additional Rent which would have become due during
the remainder of the Lease Term, which damages shall be payable to Landlord in
one lump sum on demand.  For purpose of this Section, present value shall be
computed by discounting at a rate equal to one (1) whole percentage point above
the discount rate then in effect at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Tenant waives any right of redemption, re-entry or restoration of the operation
of this Lease under any present or future law, including any such right which
Tenant would otherwise have if Tenant shall be dispossessed for any cause.

   20.3  Landlord's rights and remedies set forth in this Lease are cumulative
and in addition to Landlord's other rights and remedies at law or in equity,
including those available as a result of any anticipatory breach of this Lease.
Landlord's exercise of any such right or remedy shall not prevent the concurrent
or subsequent exercise of any other right or remedy.  Landlord's delay or
failure to exercise or enforce any of Landlord's rights or remedies or Tenant's
obligations shall not constitute a waiver of any such rights, remedies or
obligations.  Landlord shall not be deemed to have waived any default unless
such waiver expressly is set forth in an instrument signed by Landlord.  If
Landlord waives in writing any default, then such waiver shall not be construed
as a waiver of any covenant or condition set forth in this Lease except as to
the specific circumstances described in such written waiver.  Neither Tenant's
payment of a lesser amount than the sum due hereunder nor Tenant's endorsement
or statement on any check or letter accompanying such payment shall be deemed

<PAGE>

an accord and satisfaction, and Landlord may accept the same without prejudice
to Landlord's right to recover the balance of such sum or to pursue any other
remedy available to Landlord.  Landlord's re-entry and acceptance of keys shall
not be considered an acceptance of a surrender of this Lease.

   20.4  If more than one natural person and/or entity shall execute this Lease
as Tenant, then the liability of each such person or entity shall be joint and
several.  Similarly, if Tenant is a general partnership or other entity the
partners or members of which are subject to personal liability, then the
liability of each such partner or member shall be joint and several.

   20.5  If Tenant fails to make any payment to any third party or do any act
herein required to be made or done by Tenant, then Landlord may, but shall not
be required to, make such payment or do such act.  Landlord's taking such action
shall not be considered a cure of such failure by Tenant or prevent Landlord
from pursuing any remedy to which it is otherwise entitled in connection with
such failure.  If Landlord elects to make such payment or do such act, then all
expenses incurred, plus interest thereon at the lesser of (i) a rate per annum
(the "Default Rate") which is five (5) whole percentage points higher than the
highest Prime Rate as published in the Wall Street Journal's Money Rates Column
or if such rate is no longer published then the rate which is five (5) whole
percentage points in excess of the Prime Rate of NationsBank of Virginia, N.A.,
or (ii) the highest non-usurious rate permitted under the laws of the
jurisdiction where the Building is located, from the date incurred to the date
of payment thereof by Tenant, shall constitute Additional Rent.

ARTICLE XXI   BANKRUPTCY.

   The following shall be Events of Bankruptcy under this Lease: (a) Tenant, a
Guarantor or a General Partner becoming insolvent, as that term is defined in
Title 1 1 of the United States Code (the "Bankruptcy Code,,), or under the
insolvency laws of any state (the "Insolvency Laws"); (b) appointment of a
receiver or custodian for any property of Tenant, a Guarantor or a General
Partner, or the institution of a foreclosure or attachment action upon any
property of Tenant, a Guarantor or a General Partner; (c) filing of a voluntary
petition by Tenant, a Guarantor or a General Partner under the provisions of the
Bankruptcy Code or Insolvency Laws; (d) filing of an involuntary petition
against Tenant, a Guarantor or a General Partner as the subject debtor under the
Bankruptcy Code or Insolvency Laws, which either (i) is not dismissed within
sixty (60) days of filing, or (ii) results in the issuance of an order for
relief against the debtor; or (e) Tenant, a Guarantor or a General Partner
making or consenting to an assignment for the benefit of creditors or a
composition of creditors.

ARTICLE XXII   SUBORDINATION.

   22.1  This Lease is subject and subordinate to all ground or underlying
leases and to all mortgages and/or deeds of trust which may now or hereafter
affect the real property of which the Premises form a part, and

<PAGE>

to all renewals, modifications, consolidations, replacements and extensions
thereof.  This clause shall be self-operative and no further instrument of
subordination shall be required by any mortgagee or trustee.  In confirmation of
such subordination, Tenant shall execute within fifteen (15) days any
certificate that Landlord may request. The failure of Tenant to timely execute
and deliver any such certificate shall be deemed a conclusive admission of the
certifications and acknowledgments contained thereinNotwithstanding the
foregoing, the party secured by any such deed of trust shall have the right to
recognize this Lease and, in the event of any foreclosure sale under such deed
of trust, this Lease shall continue in full force and effect at the option of
the party secured by such deed of trust or the purchaser under any such
foreclosure sale in which event Tenant shall attorn to such purchaser and shall
recognize such purchaser as the Landlord under this Lease.  Upon such attornment
such purchaser shall not be (a) bound by any payment of the Base Rent or
Additional Rent more than one (1) month in advance, (b) bound by any amendment
of this Lease made without the consent of the holder of the deed of trust
existing as of the date of such amendment, (c) liable for damages for any
breach, act or omission of any prior landlord, or (d) subject to any offsets or
defenses which Tenant might have against any prior landlord; provided, however,
that after succeeding to Landlord's interest, such purchaser shall perform in
accordance with the terms of this Lease all obligations of Landlord arising
after the date such purchaser acquires title to the Building.  Within fifteen
(15) days after the request of such purchaser, Tenant shall execute, acknowledge
and deliver any requisite or appropriate document submitted to Tenant confirming
such attornment, provided that commercially reasonable non-disturbance
agreements are included therein.

   22.2  Tenant covenants and agrees that it will, at the written request of
the party secured by any such deed of trust, execute, acknowledge and deliver
any instrument that has for its purpose and effect the subordination of said
deed of trust to the lien of this Lease.  The failure of Tenant to timely
execute and deliver any such certificate shall be deemed a conclusive admission
of the certifications and acknowledgments contained therein.  At the option of
any landlord under any ground or underlying lease to which the Lease is now or
may hereafter become subject or subordinate, Tenant agrees that neither the
cancellation nor termination of such ground or underlying lease shall by
operation of law or otherwise, result in cancellation or termination of this
Lease or the obligations of Tenant hereunder.  Tenant covenants and agrees to
attorn to such landlord or to any successor to Landlord's interest in such
ground or underlying lease subject to the attornment provisions set forth above.
In that event, this Lease shall continue as a direct lease between Tenant and
such landlord or its successor.

   22.3  After receiving notice from any person, firm or other entity that it
holds a mortgage or deed of trust on the Building or the Land, no notice from
Tenant to Landlord alleging any default by Landlord shall be effective unless
and until a copy of the same is given to such holder, provided that Tenant shall
have been furnished with the name and address of such holder.  Any such holder
shall have thirty (30) days, or such additional time as may reasonably be
necessary (so long as holder shall have promptly commenced and continued to
pursue diligently), after receipt of notice from

<PAGE>

Tenant of a default by Landlord under this Lease to cure such default before
Tenant may exercise any remedy hereunder.  The curing of any of Landlord's
defaults by such holder shall be treated as performance by Landlord.

ARTICLE XXIII   DELIVERY AT END OF LEASE TERM.

   23.1  On the Expiration Date, Tenant shall without notice quit and surrender
the Premises broom clean and in good condition and repair (ordinary wear and
tear and damage by fire or other casualty excepted), together with all
Alterations which may have been made in or attached to the Premises unless
Landlord elects to have Tenant remove the same in accordance with Section 9.4
hereof.  Upon surrender, Tenant shall remove its Personal Property and movable
trade fixtures and repair any damage to the Premises caused thereby.  Any
property of Tenant not promptly removed shall be deemed to have been abandoned
by Tenant and to have become the property of Landlord and may be retained by
Landlord or disposed of at Tenant's expense (Tenant hereby agreeing to remain
liable for the cost thereof even though this Lease shall have terminated) as
Landlord shall so desire.

   23.2  If Tenant or any party claiming under Tenant remains in possession of
the Premises, or any portion thereof, after the Expiration Date, no tenancy or
interest in the Premises shall result therefrom, unless Landlord elects as
hereinafter provided, but such holding over shall be an unlawful detainer and
all such parties shall be subject to immediate eviction and removal.  If,
without consent of Landlord, Tenant or any party claiming under Tenant remains
in possession of the Premises, or any part thereof, after the Expiration Date,
Landlord may, in addition to its other rights, elect, in its sole discretion, to
treat such holding over by Tenant as the creation of a month-to-month tenancy
subject to all of the terms, covenants and conditions set forth in this Lease
insofar as the same are applicable to a month-to-month tenancy, except that
Tenant shall pay a monthly Base Rent equal to two (2) times the monthly Base
Rent in effect during the last month of the term of the Lease.  Tenant shall
give to Landlord at least thirty (30) days prior written notice of any intention
to quit the Premises and Tenant shall be entitled to thirty (30) days prior
written notice to quit the Premises except in the event of nonpayment of rent in
advance or the breach of any other covenant by Tenant, in which event Tenant
shall not be entitled to any notice to quit, the usual thirty (30) days notice
to quit being hereby expressly waived.

ARTICLE XXIV   COVENANT OF LANDLORD.

   24.1  Landlord covenants that it has the right to make this Lease for the
term aforesaid, and that if Tenant shall pay the rent and perform all of the
covenants, terms, conditions and agreements of this Lease to be performed by
Tenant, Tenant shall, during the term hereby created, freely, peaceably and
quietly occupy and enjoy the full possession of the Premises without molestation
or hindrance by Landlord, subject to the provisions of Section 24.2 hereof.

   24.2  Landlord hereby reserves to itself and its successors and assigns

<PAGE>

the following rights (all of which are hereby consented to by Tenant): (i) to
change the street address and/or name of the Building and/or the arrangement
and/or location of entrances, passageways, doors, doorways, corridors,
elevators, stairs, toilets, or other public parts of the Building, (ii) to
control and operate the public portions of the Building and the public
facilities, as well as facilities furnished for the common use of the tenants,
in such a manner as it deems best for the benefit of tenants generally, (iii) to
erect, use and maintain pipes and conduits in and through the Premises.
Landlord may exercise any or all of the foregoing rights without being deemed to
be guilty of an eviction, actual or constructive, or a disturbance or
interruption of the business of Tenant or Tenant's use or occupancy of the
Premises.

ARTICLE XXV   ERISA REPRESENTATION.

   Tenant hereby represents to The Prudential Insurance Company of America that
(a) Tenant is not an employee benefit plan as defined in Section 3(3) of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, (b) the assets of
Tenant do not constitute plan assets of one or more such plans within the
meaning of 29 C.F.R. Section 2510.3-1 01 and (c) Tenant is not subject to state
statutes regulating investments of and fiduciary obligations with respect to
governmental plans.

ARTICLE XXVI   GENERAL PROVISIONS.

   26.1  No Representations by Landlord.  Tenant acknowledges that neither
Landlord nor any broker, agent or employee of Landlord has made any
representations or promises with respect to the Premises or the Building except
as herein expressly set forth, and no rights, privileges, easements or licenses
are acquired by Tenant except as herein expressly set forth.  Tenant, by taking
possession of the Premises, shall accept the same "as is", and such taking of
possession shall be conclusive evidence that the Premises and the Building are
in good and satisfactory condition at the time of such taking of possession,
punch list items excepted.

   26.2  No Partnership.  Nothing contained in this Lease shall be deemed or
construed to create a partnership or joint venture of or between Landlord and
Tenant, or to create any other relationship between the parties hereto other
than that of Landlord or Tenant.

   26.3  Broker.  Landlord recognizes the Broker(s) as the sole broker(s)
procuring this Lease and shall pay said Broker(s) a commission therefor pursuant
to a separate agreement between said Broker(s) and Landlord.  Landlord and
Tenant each represent and warrant to one another that except as set forth herein
neither of them has employed any broker, agent or finder in carrying on the
negotiations relating to this Lease.  Landlord shall indemnify and hold Tenant
harmless, and Tenant shall indemnify and hold Landlord harmless, from and
against any claim or claims for brokerage or other commission arising from or
out of any breach of the foregoing representation and warranty by the respective
indemnitor.

   26.4  Estoppel Certificate.  Tenant agrees, at any time and from time to
time and within ten (1 0) days after written request by Landlord, to

<PAGE>

execute, acknowledge and deliver to Landlord a statement in writing (i)
certifying that this Lease is unmodified and in full force and effect (or if
there have been modifications, that the Lease is in full force and effect as
modified and stating the modifications), (ii) stating the rent payable and dates
to which the rent and any other charges hereunder have been paid by Tenant,
(iii) stating whether or not, to the best knowledge of Tenant, Landlord is in
default in the performance of any covenant, agreement or condition contained in
this Lease, and if so, specifying each such default of which Tenant may have
knowledge, (iv) stating the address to which notices to Tenant should be sent,
(v) stating the commencement and expiration dates of this Lease, including any
optional renewals and (vi) certifying to such other matters as Landlord may
reasonably request.  Any such statement delivered pursuant hereto may be relied
upon by any owner of the Building or the Land, any prospective purchaser of the
Building or the Land, any mortgagee or prospective mortgagee of the Building or
the Land or of Landlord's interest in either, or any prospective assignee of any
such mortgagee.  If Tenant fails to deliver the certificate as required,
Tenant's failure to do so shall be deemed a conclusive admission of the
certifications and acknowledgments contained therein.

   26.5  WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. LANDLORD, TENANT, ALL GUARANTORS AND GENERAL
PARTNERS HEREBY WAIVE TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING, OR COUNTERCLAIM
BROUGHT BY EITHER OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGAINST THE OTHER ON OR IN RESPECT OF
ANY MATTER WHATSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANYWAY CONNECTED WITH THIS LEASE, THE
RELATIONSHIP OF LANDLORD AND TENANT HEREUNDER, TENANT'S USE PR OCCUPANCY OF THE
PREMISES, AND/OR ANY CLAIM OF INJURY OR DAMAGE. Landlord, Tenant, all Guarantors
and all General Partners of Tenant waive any objection to the venue of any
action filed in any court situated in the jurisdiction in which the Building is
located and waive any right under the doctrine of forum non conveniens or
otherwise, to transfer any such action filed in any such court to any other
court.

   26.6  Notices.  All notices or other communications hereunder shall be in
writing and shall be deemed duly given if delivered in person (with receipt
therefor) or when sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, first-class, postage prepaid, (i) if to Landlord c/o The Prudential
Insurance Company of America, 1200 K Street, N.W., Suite 920, Washington, D.C.
20005, Attention: Regional Counsel, with copy to Vice President, Asset
Management at the same address and (ii) if to Tenant at Tenant Address for
Notices unless notice of a change of address is given pursuant to the provisions
of this Article.

   26.7  Invalidity of Particular Provisions.  If any provision of this Lease
or the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall to any extent be
invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Lease, or the application of
such provision to persons or circumstances other than those to which it is
invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby, and each provision of
this Lease shall be valid and be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by
law.

   26.8  Gender and Number.  Feminine or neuter pronouns shall be substituted
for those of the masculine form, and the plural shall be substituted for the
singular number, in any place or places herein in which

<PAGE>

the context may require such substitution.

   26.9   Benefit and Burden.  The provisions of this Lease shall be binding
upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and each of their
respective representatives, successors and assigns.  Landlord may freely and
fully assign its interest hereunder.

   26.10  Entire Agreement.  This Lease, together with the Exhibits attached
hereto, contains and embodies the entire agreement of the parties hereto, and no
representations, inducements or agreements, oral or otherwise, between the
parties not contained in this Lease and the Exhibits, shall be of any force or
effect.  This Lease may not be modified, changed or terminated in whole or in
part in any manner other than by an agreement in writing duly signed by both
parties hereto.

   26.11  Authority.  Landlord and Tenant hereby covenant each for itself, that
each has full right, power and authority to enter into this Lease upon the terms
and conditions herein set forth.  If Tenant signs as a corporation, each of the
persons executing this Lease on behalf of Tenant does hereby covenant and
warrant that Tenant is a duly authorized and existing corporation, qualified to
do business in the Commonwealth of Virginia, that the corporation has full right
and authority to enter into this Lease, and that each and both of the persons
signing on behalf of the corporation were authorized to do so.

   26.12  Time of the Essence.  Time is of the essence of each provision of
this Lease.

   26.13  Attorney's Fees.  If as a result of any breach or default in the
performance of any of the provisions of this Lease, Landlord or Tenant uses the
services of an attorney in order to secure compliance with such provisions or
recover damages therefor, or to terminate this Lease, pursue other available
remedies, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover upon demand any and
all attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by such prevailing party.

   26.14  Captions.  Article and Section headings are used for convenience and
shall not be considered when construing this Lease.

   26.15  No Recording.  This Lease shall not be recorded.  This Lease shall
not be recorded in any office legally established for the purpose of giving
public notice of real estate records and any attempt to do so may be treated by
Landlord as an Event of Default under this Lease.  In the event Tenant does
record this Lease or any memorandum thereof, Tenant by such act irrevocably
constitutes and appoints Landlord as its special attorney-in-fact to execute any
and all documents required to remove the Lease or any memorandum thereof from
the public records.

   26.16  Governing Law.  This Lease is governed under the laws of the
Commonwealth of Virginia.  Landlord and Tenant agree that any litigation arising
out of, or related to, this Lease shall be brought in the courts of the
Commonwealth of Virginia or in the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Virginia, and the Landlord and Tenant hereby consent to

<PAGE>

the venue of such courts.

   26.17  Examination of Lease.  Submission of this Lease for examination or
signature by Tenant shall not constitute reservation of or option for lease, and
the same shall not be effective as a lease or otherwise until execution and
delivery by both Landlord and Tenant.

   26.18  Survival.  Landlord's and Tenant's liabilities existing as of the
expiration or earlier termination of the Lease Term shall survive such
expiration or earlier termination.

   26.19  Force Majeure.  If Landlord is in any way delayed or prevented from
performing any of its obligations under this Lease due to fire, act of God,
governmental act or failure to act, strike, labor dispute, inability to procure
materials or any other cause beyond Landlord's reasonable control (whether
similar or dissimilar to the foregoing events), then the time for performance of
such obligation shall be excused for the period of such delay or prevention and
extended for a period equal to the period of such delay or prevention.

   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have executed this Lease under seal
on the day and year first hereinabove written.

                                    LANDLORD:

ATTEST:                              The Prudential Insurance Company
                                    of America



___________________________               By: 
________________________________(SEAL)
Assistant Secretary                       Its:     Vice President



TENANT:

ATTEST:


_____________________________            By:
______________________________(SEAL)
Title:                                   Title:

<PAGE>

                                      EXHIBIT A
                                     FLOOR PLANS

<PAGE>

                                      EXHIBIT B
                              AGREEMENT FOR CONSTRUCTION


Landlord and Tenant simultaneously with the execution of this Agreement for
Construction (Agreement) are executing a Lease for space (the Premises) in the
Building.  The Premises and Building are described in the Lease.

As further inducement, each to the other, to enter into the Lease (which is
hereby incorporated by reference to the extent the provisions of this Agreement
apply thereto) and in consideration of the mutual covenants herein, Landlord and
Tenant mutually agree as follows:

   1.   Landlord's Work.  "Landlord's Work" shall mean the provision of all
labor, materials, coordination, supervision and planning services necessary to
install in the Premises those Tenant Improvements described in Exhibit B.1.

   2.   Construction.  Landlord's space planner will prepare Tenant
Construction Documents for the Premises showing in completed detail and in
finish form the necessary drawings by which a contractor can build out the
Premises.  Tenant Construction Documents will, in complete detail, describe
partitions, doors, reflected ceilings, telephone outlets, electrical switches
and outlets, finishes, and HVAC equipment and controls for Landlord's Work.

        (a)  Space Planning

             Landlord's space planner will develop a program for Tenant showing
             the relationships of functions and/or people and the physical
             requirements of Tenant's operations.  It is agreed that Tenant
             will furnish to Landlord and Space Planner all information
             regarding its partitioning, electrical, mechanical, telephone
             requirements and all other pertinent data by not later than
             12/09/96 . Up to two (2) preliminary architectural Tenant drawings
             will be provided at Landlord's expense.

        (b)  Construction Documents

             Landlord's space planner and engineer will prepare Tenant
             Construction Documents for all Landlord's Work.  Landlord will
             produce and furnish to Tenant, at no cost, one blue print copy of
             the approved Tenant Construction Documents.  All other sets or
             copies will be provided at Tenant's expense.  Landlord and Tenant
             must approve the Tenant Construction Documents in writing on or
             before the approval date specified herein and prior to the
             commencement of the pricing and construction.

        (c)  Pricing

             Prior to the commencement of construction, Landlord will

<PAGE>

             furnish Tenant a pricing for all Landlord's Work included in the
             Tenant Construction Documents, which Tenant shall be liable for,
             which pricing must be approved in writing by Tenant on or before
             the approval date specified on Exhibit B.2. This pricing will
             include a reasonable contingency factor.  Tenant shall pay to
             Landlord as Additional Rent, after occupancy by Tenant, and not
             later than ten (10) days after receipt of a statement from
             Landlord, any and all amounts by which the actual cost of the
             Tenant Improvements exceeds the Improvement Allowance.

        (d)  Schedule

             Landlord and Tenant shall adhere to the schedule for preparation
             and approval of plans and working drawings set forth in Exhibit
             B.2.

        (e)  General

             Landlord specifically retains the sole right of architectural
             control, review, approval or disapproval of any Landlord's Work.
             If Tenant shall arrange for interior design services, whether with
             Landlord's space planner or any other planner or designer, it
             shall be Tenant's responsibility to coordinate such interior
             design services with Landlord to ensure that no delays are caused
             in the programming, space planning, construction documentation or
             construction of any of the work.  Landlord shall have the right to
             approve or disapprove the use of any planner or designer Tenant
             elects to use, other than Landlord's space planner, prior to
             developing the program for the Space Plan.  All sums due Landlord
             for Landlord's Work shall be considered Additional Rent under the
             terms of the Lease; non-payment shall constitute default and
             entitle Landlord to any and all remedies specified in the Lease.

        (f)  Changes

             No changes will be made to the work after acceptance of the
             pricing by Tenant unless the change request is made in writing by
             Tenant, Landlord approves the change in writing and Tenant
             approves pricing for the change in work and drawings and the time
             adjustment for rent commencement.

   5.   Lease Commencement Date.  As provided in the Lease, it is agreed that
the Lease Commencement Date shall occur, and Tenant's obligation to pay Rent
will begin, when all Landlord's Work has been substantially completed by
Landlord.  As used herein and in the Lease, "Substantial Completion" shall mean
that date, as reasonably determined by Landlord or by Landlord's architect, when
all of the work required of Landlord hereunder has been completed except for
completion or correction of minor items, which do not adversely affect Tenant's
use or occupancy of the Premises, and the City of Chesapeake has issued such
certificate as may be

<PAGE>

necessary to permit initial occupancy of the Premises by Tenant.  However,
Tenant agrees that if Substantial Completion of such Landlord's Work has been
delayed as a result of:

        (a)  Tenant's failure to timely furnish plans or required information,

        (b)  Tenant's failure to promptly review any and all submittals and
             make any changes or adjustments and return same in a timely manner
             in order to meet the approval schedule contained in Exhibit B.2
             hereof,

        (c)  Tenant's failure to timely furnish approvals or information
             necessary for the preparation of the space planning program, Space
             Plan, Tenant Construction Documents or pricing in accordance with
             the schedule contained in Exhibit B.2 hereof,

        (d)  Tenant's request for changes to the approved Space Plan or
             approved Tenant Construction Documents,
        (e)  Tenant's request for material, finishes or installations, which
             require long lead items, or

        (f)  Actions of Tenant, or any person, firm or corporation employed by
             Tenant,

then, for purposes of determining the Lease Commencement Date, the Landlord's
Work shall be deemed to have been substantially completed on the date that
Landlord's architect determines in its sole judgment that the Landlord's Work
would have been substantially completed if such delay or delays had not
occurred.

   6.   Tenant Entrv.  If Tenant should desire to enter the Premises or
authorize its agent to do so prior to the Lease Commencement Date, to per-form
approved work not included in Landlord's Work, then Landlord shall permit such
entry subject to the following conditions and requirements:

        (a)  The terms of this Lease shall govern the tenant's occupancy and
             all work performed in the Premises.

        (b)  Tenant, its contractors, mechanics, workmen, or such others as may
             enter, do not in any way disturb Landlord's contractors, workmen,
             mechanics, or other agents, in the performance of their work.  If,
             in Landlord's reasonable judgment, entry of Tenant or any of its
             agents would cause, has caused or is causing disturbance to
             Landlord or its agents then Landlord may without notice refuse
             admittance to Tenant or its contractors, workmen, mechanics, or
             agents.

        (c)  Tenant, its contractors or other agents provide Landlord
             sufficient evidence that it (they) is (are) covered under such
             Worker's Compensation, public liability and property damage
             insurance as Landlord may reasonably request for its

<PAGE>

             protection.

   7.   Landlord's representative for coordination of construction will be:

        Name:          Robinson Sigma Commercial Real Estate, Inc.
        Address:     150 Boush Street, Suite 300, Norfolk, Virginia 23510
        Phone:          (757) 640-7130

   8.   Tenant's representative for coordination of construction will be:

        Name:          Harvey Lindsay Commercial Real Estate
        Address:     1400 Dominion Tower, Norfolk, VA  23510
        Phone:          (757) 640-8700
         Attention:     Mr. Scott Godbout


TENANT:                                   LANDLORD:

Consumer Portfolio Services,              The Prudential Insurance
a California corporation                  Company of America



By:_______________________________     By:  ________________________________
Title:                                      Vice President

<PAGE>

                                     EXHIBIT B.1
                                  BUILDING STANDARD


"Preliminary Working Drawings" by Morrisetts Architecture dated December 30,
1996.

<PAGE>

                                     EXHIBIT B.2
                   PRELIMINARY AND FINAL WORKING DRAWINGS SCHEDULE


The schedule for the development of the Preliminary and Final Working Drawings
will be as follows:

Deadlines

(1)     Tenant approves general space layout for the Premises.
        complete

(2)     Tenant furnishes information to Space Planner necessary
        for the preparation of Preliminary Working Drawings.
        complete

(3)     Space Planner submits Preliminary Working Drawings to
        Landlord and Tenant for review and approval.                    complete

(4)     Tenant gives Landlord approval of Preliminary Working
        Drawings, with any requested changes or otherwise
        required as a result of Landlord's review of the same.          complete

(5)     Landlord quotes price estimates to Tenant for Landlord's
        Work (including   cost estimates of design, materials, permits,
        etc.) shown on Preliminary Working Drawings.                    01/16/97

(6)     Tenant authorizes and approves such Landlord's Work
        as it may determine and Long-Lead Items are ordered.
            01/19/97

(7)     Engineers, Space Planner, Landlord, and Tenant coordinate
        and produce Final Working Drawings.                             01/25/97

(8)     Landlord and Tenant approve Final Working Drawings and
        authorize commencement of construction of Landlord's Work.      01/27/97

(9)     Projected date of Substantial Completion.                       03/15/97


Tenants agree to promptly review any and all submissions and make any changes or
adjustments and return the same to Landlord in a timely manner in order to meet
the schedule set forth above.

<PAGE>

                                      EXHIBIT C
           CERTIFICATE AFFIRMING THE LEASE COMMENCEMENT AND EXPIRATION DATE


This Certificate is being provided pursuant to Section 3.2 of that certain lease
agreement dated ________________ (the "Lease"), between The Prudential Insurance
Company of America and ________________________________________.

The parties to the Lease desire to confirm the following:

1.     The Lease Commencement Date is ____________________________.

2.     The initial term of the Lease shall expire on _________________________
("Lease Expiration Date").

   Attached to this Certificate is evidence of payment of premiums for all
insurance required pursuant to Sections 14.1 and 14.3 of the Lease.

                                      LANDLORD:

ATTEST:                               THE PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE COMPANY
                                      OF AMERICA, a New Jersey corporation

___________________________            By:  ____________________________(SEAL)
Assistant Secretary                    Its:     Vice President


                                      TENANT:

ATTEST:  ____________________________       ____________________________


___________________________            By:  __________________________(SEAL)
Title:                                 Its:  _________________________

<PAGE>

                                      EXHIBIT D
                                RULES AND REGULATIONS


   This Exhibit is attached to and made a part of that certain Lease Agreement
dated as of the  9th  day of  December , 1996 (the "Lease"), by and between The
Prudential Insurance Company of America ("Landlord"), and Consumer Portfolio
Services, a California corporation ("Tenant").

   1.   Tenant shall not obstruct or encumber or use for any purpose other than
ingress and egress to and from the Premises any sidewalk, entrance, passage,
court, elevator, vestibule, stairway, corridor, hall or other part of the
Building not exclusively occupied by Tenant.  Landlord shall have the right to
control and operate the public portions of the Building and the facilities
furnished for common use of the tenants, in such manner as Landlord deems best
for the benefit of the tenants generally.  Tenant shall not permit the visit to
the Premises of persons in such numbers or under such conditions as to interfere
with the use and enjoyment of the entrances, corridors, elevators and other
public portions or facilities of the Building by other tenants.  Tenant shall
coordinate in advance with Landlord's property management department all
deliveries to the Building so that arrangements can be made to minimize such
interference.

   2.   Tenant shall not attach, hang or use in connection with any window or
door of the Premises any drape, blind, shade or screen, without Landlord's prior
written consent.  All awnings, projections, curtains, blinds, shades, screens
and other fixtures shall be of a quality, type, design and color, and attached
in a manner, approved in writing by Landlord.

   3.   Tenant shall not place any showcase, mat or other article in any part
of the exterior of the Premises.

   4.   Tenant shall not use the water and wash closets and other plumbing
fixtures for any purpose other than those for which they were constructed, and
Tenant shall not place any debris, rubbish, rag or other substance therein.

   5.   Tenant will cooperate with Landlord in complying with all present and
future laws, orders, and regulations of the state, federal, municipal, and local
governments, departments, commissions, agencies and boards regarding the
collection, sorting, separation, and recycling of trash.  Tenant shall sort and
separate its trash into such categories as are provided by law.  Each separately
sorted category of trash shall be placed in separate receptacles as directed by
Landlord.  Landlord reserves the right to refuse to collect or accept from
Tenant any trash that is not separated and sorted as may be required by law.

   6.   Tenant shall not construct, maintain, use or operate within the
Premises any electrical device, wiring or apparatus in connection with a loud
speaker system or other sound system without Landlord's prior written consent.
Tenant shall not construct, maintain, use or operate any such

<PAGE>

loud speaker or sound system outside of the Premises.

   7.   Tenant shall not bring any bicycle, vehicle, animal, bird or pet of any
kind into the Building.  Tenant shall not do or permit any cooking on the
Premises, except for use of microwave ovens and coffee machines by Tenant's
employees for their own consumption.  Tenant shall not install any microwave
oven or coffee machine in the Premises without Landlord's prior written approval
of such equipment and its location within the Premises.  Tenant shall not cause
or permit any unusual or objectionable odor to be produced upon or permeate from
the Premises.

   8.   Tenant shall not use any space in the Building for the sale of goods to
the public at large or for the sale at auction of goods or property of any kind.

   9.   Tenant shall not make any unseemly or disturbing noise or disturb or
interfere with occupants of the Building.

   10.  Tenant will not conduct or permit to be conducted, any activity, or
place any equipment in or about the Premises or the Building, which will in any
way increase the rate of fire insurance or other insurance on the Building; and
if any increase in the rate of fire insurance or other insurance is stated by
any insurance company or by the applicable insurance Rating Bureau to be due to
any activity or equipment of Tenant in or about the Premises or the Building,
such statement shall be conclusive evidence that the increase in such rate is
due to such activity or equipment and as a result thereof, Tenant shall be
liable for such increase and shall reimburse Landlord therefor upon demand and
any such sum shall be considered additional rent payable hereunder.

   11.  Tenant shall not place additional locks or bolts of any kind on any of
the doors or windows, and shall not make any change in any existing lock or
locking mechanism therein, without Landlord's prior written approval.  Tenant
shall keep doors leading to a corridor or main hall closed during business hours
except as such doors may be used for ingress or egress.  Tenant shall, upon the
termination of its tenancy, restore to Landlord all keys of stores, offices,
storage and toilet rooms either furnished to, or otherwise procured by, Tenant,
and in the event of the loss of any keys so furnished, Tenant shall pay the
replacement cost thereof.  Tenant's key system shall be separate from that for
the rest of the Building.

   12.  Landlord reserves the right to exclude from the Building at all times
any person who does not properly identify himself to the Building management or
watchman on duty.  Landlord may require all persons admitted to or leaving the
Building to register.

   13.  The normal hours of operation for the Building will be 8:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday (except Federal and Commonwealth of Virginia
holidays) and 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. on Saturday (except Federal and
Commonwealth of Virginia holidays) and such other hours, if any, as Landlord
from time to time determines.

<PAGE>

   14.  Tenant shall not use the Premises for lodging or sleeping or for any
immoral or illegal purpose.

   15.  Tenant, before closing and leaving the Premises at any time, shall see
that all windows are closed and all lights turned off.

   16.  Tenant shall not request Landlord's employees to perform any work or do
anything outside of such employees' regular duties without Landlord's prior
written consent.  Tenant's special requirements will be attended to only upon
application to Landlord, and any such special requirements shall be billed to
Tenant in accordance with the schedule of charges maintained by Landlord from
time to time or as is agreed upon in writing in advance by Landlord and Tenant.
Tenant shall not employ any of Landlord's employees for any purpose whatsoever
without Landlord's prior written consent.

   17.  Canvassing, soliciting and peddling in the Building are prohibited and
Tenant shall cooperate to prevent the same.

   18.  There shall not be used in any space, or in the public halls of the
Building, either by any tenant or by jobbers or others in the delivery or
receipt of merchandise, any hand trucks, except those equipped with rubber tires
and side guards.  Tenant shall be responsible for any loss or damage resulting
from any deliveries made by or for Tenant.

   19.  Landlord shall have the right to prescribe standards for curtains,
drapes, blinds, shades, screens, lights and ceilings, including standards
designed to give the Building a uniform, attractive appearance.  Tenant shall
comply with all such standards prescribed by Landlord.

   20.  Drapes (whether installed by Landlord or Tenant) which are visible from
the exterior of the Building, shall be cleaned by Tenant at least once a year,
without notice from Landlord, at Tenant's own expense.

   21.  The following rules apply to parking:

   (a)  Cars must be parked entirely within the stall lines painted on the
pavement.

   (b)  All directional signs and arrows must be observed.

   (c)  The speed limit shall be 5 miles per hour.

   (d)  Parking is prohibited:
        (i)  in areas not striped for parking
        (ii) in aisles
        (iii)     where "no parking" signs are posted
        (iv) in cross hatched areas
        (v)  in such other areas as may be designated by Landlord or Landlord's
             agent(s).

   (e)  Parking stickers or any other device or form of identification supplied
by Landlord shall remain the property of Landlord and shall not be transferable.
There will be a replacement charge payable

<PAGE>

by Tenant equal to the amount posted from time to time by Landlord for loss of
any magnetic parking card or parking sticker.

   (f)  No intermediate or full-size cars shall be parked in parking spaces
limited to compact cars.

   (g)  Every parker is required to park and lock his own car.  All
responsibility for damage to cars or persons is assumed by the parker.

   22.  Landlord may, upon request of Tenant, waive Tenant's compliance with
any of the rules, provided that (a) no waiver shall be effective unless signed
by Landlord, (b) no waiver shall relieve Tenant from the obligation to comply
with such rule in the future unless otherwise agreed in writing by Landlord, (c)
no waiver granted to any tenant shall relieve any other tenant from the
obligation of complying with these rules and regulations, and (d) no waiver
shall relieve Tenant from any liability for any loss or damage resulting from
Tenant's failure to comply with any rule.

<PAGE>

                                      EXHIBIT E
                                     PARKING PLAN

<PAGE>

                                      EXHIBIT F
                                ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS

The following paragraphs are made a part of this Lease, and in the event of any
inconsistency between the following paragraphs and any other terms of this
Lease, the following paragraphs shall control:

1. Escalation:

<PAGE>

EXHIBIT G

ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS

The following paragraphs are made a part of this Lease, and in the event of any
inconsistency between the following paragraphs and any other terms of this
Lease, the following paragraphs shall control:

Rent Abatement: Provided Tenant is not in default hereunder, the Base Rent shall
be abated for the first six (6) months of the Lease term. All other provisions
of the Lease, including payment of Operating Expenses and any additional rent
described hereunder, shall be in effect during the abatement period.

Escalation:  The annual rent, as described in paragraph 4 of the Lease, shall
increase annually in accordance with the following schedule:

PERIOD                  ANNUAL RENT    MONTHLY RENT    P.S.F.
03/15/97 - 03/31/98     $260,666.04     $21,722.17      $14.00
04/01/98 - 03/31/99     $267,182.64     $22,265.22      $14.35
04/01/99 - 03/31/00     $273,885.48     $22,823.79      $14.71
04/01/00 - 03/31/01     $280,774.56     $23,397.88      $15.08
04/01/01 - 03/31/02     $287,663.52     $23,971.96      $15.45
04/01/02 - 03/31/03     $294,924.96     $24,577.08      $15.84
04/01/03 - 03/31/04     $302,372.52     $25,197.71      $16.24
04/01/04 - 03/31/05     $309,820.20     $25,818.35      $16.64
04/01/05 - 03/31/06     $317,640.12     $26,470.01      $17.06
04/01/06 - 03/31/07     $325,460.16     $27,121.68      $17.48
04/01/07 - 09/30/07     $333,652.44     $27,804.37      $17.92

3. Right of First Offer:

(a) During the term of this Lease, Tenant shall have a right of first offer to
lease a portion or all of the currently vacant fifth floor space consisting in
total of approximately 9,258 rentable square feet as shown on Exhibit F,
subject to any tenant's rights to renew or expand.  If Landlord receives an
expression of interest from, or sends a proposal to and receives a response from
a bona fide third party prospective tenant to lease all or a part of the
expansion space (the "Additional Space"), then Landlord shall provide Tenant
notice of the availability of the space.  The exact size and configuration of
the Additional Space, and the date on which it can be delivered to Tenant shall
be specified by Landlord in a written notice furnished to Tenant ("Landlord's
Notice of Availability").

(b) Provided Tenant shall not be in default under the Lease, Tenant will have
the right to accept the offer to lease said Additional Space as it becomes
available for Lease by giving written notice to Landlord within five (5)
business days following its receipt of Landlord's Notice of Availability. If
Tenant fails to accept the Additional Space then being offered in Landlord's
Notice of Availability within such five (5) business day period, Landlord
thereafter shall be free to lease the space to any other party, which lease may
include rights in favor of such other party to

<PAGE>

renew or expand to which this right of first offer shall be subordinate. Upon
the date of delivery of the Additional Space to Tenant (the "Delivery Date"),
the Additional Space so delivered shall become part of the Demised Premises,
subject to all the terms and conditions of this Lease except as stipulated in
subsection (c) below.

(c) The leasing of the Additional Space shall be on the same terms and
conditions set forth in this Lease or applicable on the Delivery Date, except
that the Additional Space shall be delivered to and accepted by Tenant in its
existing condition, provided that Landlord shall provide a Tenant improvement
allowance based on $10.00 per square foot for a one hundred twenty six (126)
month lease term pro-rated accordingly based on the amount of time remaining in
the term.

   For example, if the Tenant were to obtain Additional Space and the Delivery
Date of the Additional Space to the Tenant was March 15, 1 999, then the Tenant
Improvement Allowance would be $8.10 per square foot.

   In the event Tenant exercises its Right of First Offer, rent abatement shall
not apply to the Additional Space.

(d) In the event there exists a default by Tenant under this Lease on the date
the Additional Space is delivered to Tenant for occupancy, then, at Landlord's
option, possession of such Additional Space shall not be delivered to Tenant,
and Tenant's right to lease such Additional Space shall lapse and be of no
further force or effect.

(e) Landlord shall incur no liability if Landlord is unable to deliver
possession of the Additional Space to Tenant due to any holdover tenant's
refusal to vacate, or for any other reason not within Landlord's reasonable
control, provided that Landlord shall use reasonable efforts to obtain and
deliver possession of the Additional Space.

(f) Tenant's right under this Section is not assignable and may be exercised
only by Tenant and only if the Additional Space is intended for Tenant's own use
and will be used solely by Tenant, may be exercised only by Tenant, and shall
not be exercised by any transferee, mortgagee, subtenant or other assignee of
tenant or any trustee for Tenant.

(g) Notwithstanding any provisions of this Section, or any other provisions of
this Lease, Tenant shall have no rights pursuant to this Section as if this
Section had not been included, in this Lease, if Tenant has assigned this Lease
in whole or in part, or if Tenant has subleased all or any part of the Premises.
The preceding sentence shall not impair Tenant's leasing of Additional Space
which Tenant has leased pursuant to subsection (a) above before the occurrence
of such assignment or sublease.  Without limiting the other provisions of this
Lease with respect to which time is of the essence, time is of the essence of
each of the provisions of this Section with respect to the exercise by Tenant of
its options.

4. Renewal Option:

<PAGE>

(a) Landlord hereby grants to Tenant the conditional one-time right, exercisable
at Tenant's option, to renew the term of this Lease for one (1) term of an
additional five (5) years (the "Renewal Term").  If exercised, and if the
conditions applicable thereto have been satisfied, the Renewal Term shall
commence immediately following the end of the Lease Term (i.e. October 1, 2007).
The right of renewal herein granted to Tenant shall be subject to, and shall be
exercised in accordance with the following terms and conditions:

   (i)  Tenant shall exercise its right of renewal by giving Landlord written
notice thereof (the "Renewal Notice") not earlier than December 1, 2006 and
later than February 28, 2007.

        (ii) At the time the option Is exercised and at the commencement of the
Renewal Term, the Lease shall be in full force and effect, and Tenant shall not
be in default thereunder.

   (iii) In the event the Renewal Notice is not given timely, Tenant's right of
renewal with respect to the Renewal Term shall lapse and be of no further force
or effect.

(b) During any Renewal Term, all the terms, conditions, covenants and agreements
set forth in the Lease, as amended, shall continue to apply and be binding upon
Landlord and Tenant, except that the Base Rent payable during the Renewal Term
shall be equal to Market Rent as defined below.

(c) "Market Rent" shall be the fair market amount of Base Rent (including
escalations) determined as follows:

   (i)  Following the giving of the Renewal Notice, Landlord and Tenant shall
commence negotiations concerning the amount of Base Rent that shall constitute
Market Rent. The parties shall have thirty (30) days after the date Tenant
delivers its Renewal Notice within which to agree on such Market Rent. If,
during such negotiation period, the parties are unable to agree on such Market
Rent, then within ten (10) days after the expiration of that period each party,
at its cost, and by giving notice to the other party shall appoint a real estate
broker familiar with the fair market rental value of commercial office space in
the area in which the building is located to determine the Market Rent for the
Premises, taking into consideration the factors described below.  If one party
does not appoint a broker within ten (10) business days after the other party
has given notice of the name of its broker, the single broker appointed shall be
the sole broker, and the Market Rent so determined by that broker shall be the
Market Rent for purposed of this subparagraph.

If two brokers are appointed by the parties as stated above, they shall
independently establish their opinions of Market Rent for the Premises within
ten (10) days of their respective appointments. If the brokers agree, the Market
Rent shall be the fair rental value of the property as agreed by the two
brokers. If they are unable to agree within fifteen (15) days after the second
broker has been appointed, the Market Rent shall be the fair rental value for
the Total Premises as determined by the average of the two appraisals if the
higher of the two appraisals is no greater

<PAGE>

than 110% of the lower of the two appraisals. If, however, the higher of the two
appraisals is more than 110% higher than the lower appraisal, the two brokers
shall appoint a third broker (within 5 business days after the expiration of
said 15 day period) who shall establish his or her own opinion of Market Rent
for the Premises within five (5) business days after such third broker's
appointment, taking into consideration the factors described below. Each of the
parties shall bear one half of the cost of appointing the third broker and of
paying the third broker's fee. The third broker shall have the qualifications
stated above and shall further be a person who has not previously acted in any
capacity for either party.

Within fifteen (15) days after the selection of the third broker, the Market
Rent shall be determined by an average of the Market Rents specified by the
three brokers; provided, however, that if the low appraisal and/or the high
appraisal are/is more than ten percent (10%) lower and/or higher than the middle
appraisal, the low appraisal and/or the high appraisal shall be disregarded.  If
only one appraisal is disregarded, the remaining two appraisals shall be added
together and their total divided by two to establish the Market Rent.  If both
the low appraisal and the high appraisal are disregarded as stated in this
Paragraph, the middle appraisal shall establish the Market Rent for the Premises
during the Renewal Term.

(ii) Among the factors to be considered in determining Market Rent shall be the
rental rates and rental escalations then being quoted by (a) Landlord for
comparable space in the Building available for lease to new tenants and (b)
other landlords for similar space in comparable buildings (or adjusting the
rental rate as appropriate for differences between such space and the Premises)
taking into consideration, among other things, location and floor level within
the applicable building, the location, quality, age and reputation of the
building, the definition of rental area or net rentable area, as the case may
be, with respect to which such rental rates are computed, rent concessions or
other allowances, abatements, rental rates are computed, rent concessions or
other allowances, abatements, moving expenses, tenant improvements, parking
rights, the term of the lease (or renewal) under consideration, and the extent
of services provided thereunder, applicable distinctions between "gross" leases
and "net" leases, and any other relevant term of condition in making such
evaluation.  All determinations shall reflect market conditions expected to
exist as of the date Base Rent for the Renewal Term (based on Market Rent) is to
commence (including base rents, escalations, concessions and other terms
expected to be agreed to in market leases entered into at such time).

   (iii) Without limiting the other provisions of this Lease with respect to
which time is of the essence, time is of the essence of each of the provisions
of this Section with respect to the exercise by Tenant of its option.


   (iv) To the extent that arbitration has not been completed prior to the
expiration of any preceding period for which Base Rent has been determined,
Tenant shall pay Base Rent at the rate estimated by Landlord, with an adjustment
to be made once Fair Market Rent is ultimately determined by arbitration.

<PAGE>

5. Termination Option:

(a) Tenant shall have a one-time option to terminate the Lease effective as of
March 31, 2002 the "Termination Date") provided that (i) the Lease is in full
force and effect and Tenant shall not be in default under the Lease, both at the
time the Termination Notice is given, and on the Termination Date, (ii) Tenant
has provided Landlord with prior written notice of its intention to terminate
the Lease (the "Termination Notice") on or before October 1, 2001, and (iii) a
check in the amount of $210,000.00 (the "Termination Fee") for costs associated
with Tenant's occupancy of the Premises accompanies the Termination Notice.
Failure to pay the Termination Fee to Landlord at the time the Termination
Notice is delivered to Landlord shall make such Termination Notice null and void
and of no force and effect whatsoever, and this Lease shall continue in full
force and effect as if such Termination Notice had not been given.  In the event
that Tenant exercises its option as aforesaid, then, in such event, such
termination shall be treated as if the term of this Lease had expired and all
provisions contained in this Lease pertaining to the rights and obligations of
Tenant and Landlord as to and as of the expiration of the term of this Lease
shall apply in a like-manner to such early termination.  In the event Tenant
does not timely notify Landlord of its intent to terminate, this Lease shall
continue, in full force and effect, throughout the entire Lease Term.

(b) In the event Tenant exercises its Right of First Offer as defined in
paragraph 3 above, and desires to terminate the Lease, all terms and conditions
pursuant to paragraph 5(a) above shall apply to the Additional Space, except
that Tenant shall pay the Termination Fee in an amount equivalent to the
unamortized costs incurred by Landlord in connection with Tenant's occupancy of
the Additional Space (including, but not limited to leasing commissions and
improvement allowance) as of the Termination Date, assuming amortization of such
costs at a rate of ten percent (10%) per annum over the period between the
Delivery Date and the Lease Expiration Date.

(c) In the event Tenant does not exercise its Termination Option as defined in
paragraph 5(a) above, effective as of April 1. 2002, Tenant shall be allocated
an allowance of up to $5.00 per square foot (the "Refurbishment Allowance") for
paint and carpet to the Premises and any Additional Space.

6. Tenant Improvements: Landlord shall construct within the Premises certain
   improvements (the "Landlord's Work') pursuant to the terms of Exhibit B
   attached hereto.  Landlord shall provide Tenant with an allowance of $
   186,190.00 ("Improvement Allowance") for the Landlord's Work. All Costs in
   excess of the Improvement Allowance shall be Tenant's responsibility.



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 11
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                       Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
        Statement Regarding Computation of Per Share Earnings (Loss)
                                 Exhibit 11

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                 Nine month transition
 Primary earnings (loss) per share                 Year ended        period ended
                                                   December 31,       December 31,               Year ended March 31,
                                                  -------------   ------------------   ------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>            <C>               <C>           <C>              <C>
Computation for Statement of Operations:              1996               1995          1995            1994              1993
 Net earnings (loss) per statement of                 ----               ----          ----            ----              ----
 operations used in primary
 earnings (loss) per share computation

 Net earnings (loss)                             $  14,097,376     $   7,575,122   $ 6,665,630   $  (1,778,069)   $  (1,502,272)

 Interest on borrowings, net of tax effect,
 on application of assumed proceeds from
 exercise of warrants and options in excess
 of 20% limitations                                      -                 -              -              -                -

                                                 -------------     -------------   -----------   -------------    -------------
 Net earnings (loss) as adjusted                 $  14,097,376     $   7,575,122   $ 6,665,630   $  (1,778,069)   $  (1,502,272)
                                                 -------------     -------------   -----------   -------------    -------------
                                                 -------------     -------------   -----------   -------------    -------------


 Weighted average number
 of shares outstanding                              13,489,247        11,582,625     8,903,096       8,520,548        6,378,082
 Net shares issuable from assumed exercise
 of warrants and options, as determined by
 the application of the Treasury
 Stock Method                                        1,360,362         2,740,967     2,240,172           -                -

 Weighted average number of                      -------------     -------------   -----------   -------------    -------------
 shares outstanding                                 14,849,609        14,323,592    11,143,268       8,520,548        6,378,082
                                                 -------------     -------------   -----------   -------------    -------------
                                                 -------------     -------------   -----------   -------------    -------------

 Primary earnings (loss) per                     -------------     -------------   -----------   -------------    -------------
 share, as adjusted                              $        0.95     $        0.53   $      0.60   $        (.21)   $       (0.24)
                                                 -------------     -------------   -----------   -------------    -------------
                                                 -------------     -------------   -----------   -------------    -------------
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 21.1
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

Exhibit 21.1 List of subsidiaries

Following is a list of subsidiaries of the registrant, omitting certain 
subsidiaries which, if taken together as one subsidiary, would not be a
significant subsidiary as of December 31, 1996.

G&A Financial Services, Inc.*
Alton Receivables Corp.*
CPS Receivables Corp.*
CPS Funding Corp.*
CPS Marketing, Inc.*
SAMCO Acceptance Corp.**
LINC Acceptance Company LLC**

* organized under California law
** organized under Delaware law
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23.1
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

Exhibit 23.1


INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT


The Board of Directors
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.:


We consent to incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos.
33-77314, 33-82778, 333-00880, 333-00736 and 333-21289) on Form S-3 and (Nos.
33-78680 and 33-80327) on Form S-8 of Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc. of our
report dated February 14, 1997, relating to the consolidated balance sheets of
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and
1995, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders'
equity and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 1996, for the nine-month
period ended December 31, 1995, and for the year ended March 31, 1995, which
report is incorporated by reference in the December 31, 1996 Annual Report on
Form 10-K of Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.


                                            KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP


Orange County, California
March 31, 1997

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 24
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

Exhibit 24


POWER OF ATTORNEY
- --------------------------------

     By his signature below, the undersigned director or officer 
of Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc., a California corporation, 
which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 1996, hereby appoints Charles E. Bradley, Jr., and 
Jeffrey P. Fritz his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact, each of 
them with full power to act without the other, for him and in his 
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 
Form 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and 
any and all other documents in connection therewith, and to file 
the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Nasdaq 
Stock Market and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., hereby 
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact or 
either of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue 
hereof. 

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power 
of Attorney this 26th day of March, 1997.


/s/ Charles E. Bradley, Sr.
Director




POWER OF ATTORNEY
- ----------------------------------

     By his signature below, the undersigned director or officer 
of Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc., a California corporation, 
which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 1996, hereby appoints Charles E. Bradley, Jr., and 
Jeffrey P. Fritz his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact, each of 
them with full power to act without the other, for him and in his 
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 
Form 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and 
any and all other documents in connection therewith, and to file 
the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Nasdaq 
Stock Market and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., hereby 
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact or 
either of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue 
<PAGE>

hereof. 

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power 
of Attorney this 26th day of March, 1997.


/s/ Charles E. Bradley, Jr.
Director




POWER OF ATTORNEY
- ----------------------------------

     By his signature below, the undersigned director or officer 
of Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc., a California corporation, 
which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 1996, hereby appoints Charles E. Bradley, Jr., and 
Jeffrey P. Fritz his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact, each of 
them with full power to act without the other, for him and in his 
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 
Form 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and 
any and all other documents in connection therewith, and to file 
the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Nasdaq 
Stock Market and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., hereby 
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact or 
either of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue 
hereof. 

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power 
of Attorney this 26th day of March, 1997.


/s/ John G. Poole
Director



POWER OF ATTORNEY
- ----------------------------------

     By his signature below, the undersigned director or officer 
of Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc., a California corporation, 
which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 1996, hereby appoints Charles E. Bradley, Jr., and 
Jeffrey P. Fritz his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact, each of 
them with full power to act without the other, for him and in his 
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 
Form 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and
<PAGE>

any and all other documents in connection therewith, and to file 
the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Nasdaq 
Stock Market and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., hereby 
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact or 
either of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue 
hereof. 

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power 
of Attorney this 26th day of March, 1997.


/s/ Thomas L. Chrystie
Director




POWER OF ATTORNEY
- ----------------------------------

     By his signature below, the undersigned director or officer 
of Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc., a California corporation, 
which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 1996, hereby appoints Charles E. Bradley, Jr., and 
Jeffrey P. Fritz his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact, each of 
them with full power to act without the other, for him and in his 
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 
Form 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and 
any and all other documents in connection therewith, and to file 
the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Nasdaq 
Stock Market and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., hereby 
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact or 
either of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue 
hereof. 

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power 
of Attorney this 26th day of March, 1997.


/s/ William B. Roberts
Director
 
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 27
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>
<ARTICLE> 5
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1996
<PERIOD-START>                             JAN-01-1996
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1996
<CASH>                                         153,958
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                               24,742,967
<ALLOWANCES>                                         0
<INVENTORY>                                          0
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                     0
<PP&E>                                       1,727,353
<DEPRECIATION>                               1,097,579
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                             101,946,420
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                                0
<BONDS>                                     20,000,000
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                    34,644,314
<OTHER-SE>                                  22,313,219
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>               101,946,420
<SALES>                                              0
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                            51,193,803
<CGS>                                                0
<TOTAL-COSTS>                               27,501,407
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                     0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                             2,755,803
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                           5,780,529
<INCOME-PRETAX>                             23,692,396
<INCOME-TAX>                                 9,595,020
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                         14,097,376
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                14,097,376
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     0.95
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     0.93
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 99.1
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK AND DIVIDEND POLICY
 
    The Company's Common Stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market, under
the symbol "CPSS." The following table sets forth the high and low bid prices
quoted for the Common Stock for the periods indicated. Such quotations reflect
inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission, and may
not necessarily represent actual transactions.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            HIGH        LOW
                                                                          ---------  ---------
<S>                                                                       <C>        <C>
January 1--March 31, 1995...............................................  $   8.375  $   6.625
April 1--June 30, 1995..................................................      9.313      7.000
July 1--September 30, 1995..............................................     12.875      9.250
October 1--December 31, 1995............................................     11.625      8.500
 
January 1--March 31, 1996...............................................     10.438      7.375
April 1--June 30, 1996..................................................     10.250      8.250
July 1--September 30, 1996..............................................     12.750      7.500
October 1--December 31, 1996............................................     14.375     10.625
 
January 1--March 26, 1997...............................................     13.625      7.250
</TABLE>
 
    On March 26, 1997 the last reported sale price for the Common Stock on the
Nasdaq National Market was as reported on the cover page of this Prospectus. As
of March 26, 1997, there were 84 holders of record of the Company's Common
Stock.
 
    To date, the Company has not declared or paid any dividends on its Common
Stock. The payment of future dividends, if any, on the Company's Common Stock is
within the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon the
Company's earnings, its capital requirements and financial condition, and other
relevant factors. The Company does not intend to declare any dividends on its
Common Stock in the foreseeable future, but instead intends to retain any
earnings for use in the Company's operations. See "Description of Common Stock."
 
                                       18
<PAGE>
                      SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
 
    The following table presents certain summary consolidated financial
information for the year ended December 31, 1996, the nine-month transition
period ended December 31, 1995, and the fiscal years ended March 31, 1995, 1994
and 1993, which has been derived from the Company's Consolidated Financial
Statements audited by KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, independent certified public
accountants, certain of which have been included elsewhere herein. The following
information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and related Notes thereto and "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included elsewhere herein.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    NINE-MONTH
                                                                    TRANSITION
                                                       YEAR ENDED     PERIOD       FISCAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31,
                                                      DECEMBER 31,     ENDED     -------------------------------
                                                          1996       12/31/95      1995      1994(1)     1993
                                                      ------------  -----------  ---------  ---------  ---------
                                                            (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                                   <C>           <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA:
Net gain on sale of Contracts.......................   $   23,321    $  11,549   $   9,455  $   5,425  $     523
Servicing fees......................................       16,169        6,475       7,201      3,556      1,538
Interest income.....................................       11,704        6,230       5,849      1,443        400
                                                      ------------  -----------  ---------  ---------  ---------
Total revenue.......................................       51,194       24,254      22,505     10,424      2,461
Operating expenses(1)...............................       27,502       11,597      11,358     11,712      3,963
Income taxes........................................        9,595        5,082       4,481        490          0
                                                      ------------  -----------  ---------  ---------  ---------
Net income (loss)...................................   $   14,097    $   7,575   $   6,666  $  (1,778) $  (1,502)
                                                      ------------  -----------  ---------  ---------  ---------
                                                      ------------  -----------  ---------  ---------  ---------
Primary net income (loss) per common share..........   $      .95    $     .53   $     .60  $    (.21) $    (.24)
                                                      ------------  -----------  ---------  ---------  ---------
                                                      ------------  -----------  ---------  ---------  ---------
Weighted average common and common equivalent
  shares............................................   14,849,609   14,323,592   11,143,268 8,520,548  6,378,082
Fully diluted net income (loss) per common share....   $      .93    $     .52   $     .56  $    (.21) $    (.24)
                                                      ------------  -----------  ---------  ---------  ---------
                                                      ------------  -----------  ---------  ---------  ---------
Fully diluted weighted average common and common
  equivalent shares.................................   15,410,044   14,803,592   12,538,352 8,520,548  6,378,082
OTHER DATA:
Principal amount of Contracts purchased during
  period (excluding Bulk Purchases).................   $  351,350    $ 150,943   $ 150,573  $  53,103  $  19,484
Principal amount of Contracts sold during period....      340,990      155,719     140,617     58,095     14,103
Outstanding Servicing Portfolio at end of
  period(2).........................................      505,934      288,927     192,800     63,208     20,436
Net charge-offs(3)..................................       20,328        8,331       4,349        964        276
Servicing fees as a percentage of average principal
  balance of Contracts being serviced(4)............         4.1%         3.6%        5.3%       7.5%       4.7%
Delinquencies as a percentage of gross Servicing
  Portfolio at end of period(5)(6)..................         6.8%         5.1%        2.5%       1.3%       1.0%
Delinquencies and amount in repossession as a
  percent of gross Servicing Portfolio(5)(6)(10)....         9.2%         7.9%        4.4%       2.0%       2.0%
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average Servicing
  Portfolio(3)(6)...................................         5.1%         4.9%        4.0%       2.5%       2.2%
Operating expenses (before interest and provisions
  for credit losses) as a percentage of average
  Servicing Portfolio(2)(4).........................         4.8%         4.4%        5.4%      28.9%      31.5%
Servicing subject to recourse provisions(6).........      483,106      268,163     169,331     62,464     14,736
Discounted allowance for credit losses as a
  percentage of servicing subject to recourse
  provisions(7).....................................         9.7%         8.7%        8.5%       8.1%      10.2%
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(8)(9)............         5.0x         5.5x        4.2x     --         --
Pro forma ratio of earnings to fixed charges
  (8)(11)...........................................         3.2x          n/a         n/a        n/a        n/a
Cash flows provided by (used in) operating
  activities........................................   $   (9,661)   $ (18,533)  $  (6,115) $  (2,816) $  (6,718)
</TABLE>
 
                                       20
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                               AS OF MARCH 31, 1993
                                                 AS OF DECEMBER 31,  AS OF DECEMBER 31,   -------------------------------
                                                        1996                1995            1995       1994       1993
                                                 ------------------  -------------------  ---------  ---------  ---------
                                                                              (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                              <C>                 <C>                  <C>        <C>        <C>
BALANCE SHEET DATA:
Cash...........................................      $      154           $  10,895       $   5,767  $   2,089  $     245
Investments in credit enhancements.............          43,597              30,478          23,201     10,497          0
Contracts held for sale........................          21,657              19,549          21,896        647      5,054
Excess servicing receivables...................          23,654              11,108           5,154      2,294        503
Total assets...................................         101,946              77,878          57,975     16,538      6,922
Total liabilities..............................          44,989              36,397          30,981      6,337      2,833
Total shareholders' equity.....................          56,957              41,481          26,994     10,201      4,089
</TABLE>
 
- ------------------------------
 
 (1) In October 1992, as a condition to the initial public offering of Common
    Stock of the Company, the then majority shareholder of the Company deposited
    1,200,000 shares of Common Stock (the "Escrow Shares") in escrow. The escrow
    agreement provided that part or all of the Escrow Shares would be released
    if the Company's net income after taxes (as defined in the escrow agreement)
    or the average market price of the Common Stock for specified periods
    exceeded specified levels. The Company's net income (as defined in the
    escrow agreement) for fiscal 1994 (prior to the accounting effect of the
    release of the Escrow Shares) exceeded the specified level and, accordingly,
    all 1,200,000 Escrow Shares were released. The release of the Escrow Shares
    was deemed compensatory for accounting purposes, resulting in a one-time,
    non-cash charge of $6,450,000 against earnings for fiscal 1994. Without that
    charge, net income, primary net income per share and fully diluted net
    income per share for fiscal 1994 would have been $4,672,000, $.46 and $44,
    respectively.
 
 (2) Includes the outstanding principal amount of all Contracts purchased by the
    Company, including Contracts subsequently sold by the Company which it
    continues to service. Excludes loans serviced for third parties but not
    purchased by the Company. As of December 31, 1994, the Company had ceased
    servicing loans for third parties.
 
 (3) Net charge-offs include the remaining principal balance after the
    application of the net proceeds from the liquidation of the vehicle
    (excluding accrued and unpaid interest). For periods prior to the year ended
    December 31, 1996, post liquidation amounts received on previously charged
    off Contracts were applied to the period in which the related Contract was
    originally charged off. These prior period allocations were made only for
    the purpose of calculating this ratio. For financial statement purposes,
    post liquidation amounts are recognized in the period received. Effective
    January 1, 1996, post liquidation amounts received on previously charged off
    Contracts are applied in the period in which they are received, both for
    this ratio and financial statement purposes. This ratio excludes uninsured
    casualty losses, which, for the year ended December 31, 1996, the nine-month
    transition period ended December 31, 1995, and the years ended March 31,
    1995, 1994 and 1993 were $1.7 million, $604,000, $205,000, $111,000 and
    $15,000, respectively
 
 (4) The percentages set forth for the nine-month transition period ended
    December 31, 1995, are computed using annualized operating data, which do
    not necessarily represent comparable data for a full twelve-month period.
 
 (5) The Company considers a Contract delinquent when an obligor fails to make
    at least 90% of a contractually due payment by the following due date and
    the vehicle securing the Contract has not been repossessed. All amounts and
    percentages are based on the full amount remaining to be repaid on each
    Contract, including, for rule of 78s Contracts, any unearned finance
    charges.
 
 (6) Includes the outstanding principal amount of all Contracts purchased and
    subsequently sold by the Company which it continues to service. Excludes
    loans serviced for third parties and Contracts purchased but not yet sold by
    the Company.
 
 (7) Discounted allowance for credit losses represents the discounted present
    value calculated at a risk free rate, of future estimated credit losses as
    determined by the Company in conjunction with the recognition of its gains
    on sale of Contracts.
 
 (8) The ratio of earnings to fixed charges has been computed by dividing income
    before taxes and fixed charges by fixed charges. Fixed charges include
    interest expense and the portion of rent expense that is representative of
    the interest factor (deemed by the Company to be one-third).
 
 (9) The Company incurred losses in fiscal 1994 and fiscal 1993. Earnings were
    inadequate to cover fixed charges by $1.3 million and $1.5 million for
    fiscal 1994 and fiscal 1993, respectively. Adjusted to eliminate the
    one-time non-cash charge of $6,450,000 referred to in footnote (1) above,
    the ratio of earnings to fixed charges for fiscal 1994 would have been
    10.1x.
 
(10) Amount in repossession represents financed vehicles which have been
    repossessed but not yet liquidated.
 
(11) Adjusted to give effect to the sale of the Notes offered hereby at an
    estimated interest rate of 9.75% (assuming no exercise of the Underwriters'
    over-allotment option).
 
                                       21

<PAGE>
                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
    The following analysis of the financial condition of the Company should be
read in conjunction with "Selected Financial Data" and the Company's
Consolidated and Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes
thereto and the other financial data included elsewhere in this Prospectus.
 
OVERVIEW
 
    The Company specializes in the business of purchasing, selling and servicing
retail automobile installment sales Contracts originated by Dealers in the sale
of new and used automobiles, light trucks and passenger vans and has done so
since its inception on March 8, 1991. Through its purchases, the Company
provides indirect financing to borrowers with limited credit histories, low
incomes or past credit problems.
 
    The Company generates earnings primarily from the gains recognized on the
sale or securitization of its Contracts, servicing fees earned on Contracts
sold, and interest earned on Contracts held for sale. Earnings from gains on
sale, servicing fees and interest for the year ended December 31, 1996, were
$23.3 million, $16.2 million, and $11.7 million, respectively. Such earnings for
the nine-month transition period ended December 31, 1995, were $11.5 million,
$6.5 million, and $6.2 million, respectively. For the fiscal year ended March
31, 1995, such earnings were $9.5 million, $7.2 million and $5.8 million,
respectively. The Company's income is affected by losses incurred on Contracts,
whether such Contracts are held for sale or have been sold in securitizations.
The Company's cash requirements have been and will continue to be significant.
Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 1996, the
nine-month transition period ended December 31, 1995 and the year ended March
31, 1995 were $9.7 million, $18.5 million and $6.1 million, respectively.
 
    In each securitization, the Company sells Contracts to a trust which, in
turn, sells asset-backed securities to Investors. The terms of the
securitization transactions generally provide for the Company to earn a base
servicing fee computed as a percentage of the outstanding balance of the
Contracts as compensation for its duties as servicer. In addition, the Company
is entitled to certain excess servicing fees which represent collections on the
Contracts in excess of the amounts necessary to pay principal and interest to
Investors and the expenses of the trust, including, primarily, base servicing
fees. Excess servicing fees are first deposited into a Spread Account in order
to meet the predetermined credit enhancement levels of the securitization
trusts. To the extent cash in excess of the predetermined level is generated,
such cash is either transferred to cover deficiencies, if any, in Spread
Accounts for other pools, or is released to the Company. Transfers between
Spread Accounts to cover deficiencies have been insignificant from inception
through December 31, 1996. For the year ended December 31, 1996, initial
deposits to Spread Accounts, excess servicing deposited to Spread Accounts and
cash released from Spread Accounts was $12.3 million, $18.8 million, and $17.9
million, respectively. For the nine-month transition period ended December 31,
1995, initial deposits to Spread Accounts, excess servicing deposited to Spread
Accounts and cash released from Spread Accounts was $4.9 million, $7.6 million,
and $7.7 million, respectively. For the year ended March 31, 1995, initial
deposits to Spread Accounts, excess servicing deposited to Spread Accounts and
cash released from Spread Accounts was $13.2 million, $5.4 million, and $5.9
million, respectively.
 
    The Company also recognizes gains on its sales of Contracts. Gains are
determined based upon the difference between the sales proceeds for the portion
of Contracts sold and the Company's recorded investment in the Contracts sold.
The Company allocates the recorded investment in the Contracts between the
portion of the Contracts sold and the portion retained based on the relative
fair values of those portions on the date of the sale. In addition, the Company
recognizes gains attributable to its estimates of excess servicing receivables
for each pool of Contracts it securitizes. Excess servicing receivables are
determined by computing the difference between the weighted average yield of the
Contracts sold and the yield to the purchaser, adjusted for the normal servicing
fee based on the
 
                                       22
<PAGE>
agreements between the Company and the purchaser. The resulting differential is
recorded as a gain at the time of sale equal to the present value of the
estimated cash flows, net of any portion of the excess that may be due to the
purchaser and adjusted for anticipated prepayments, repossessions, liquidations
and other losses. To the extent that the actual future performance of the
Contracts results in less excess cash flows than the Company estimated, the
Company's excess servicing receivables will be adjusted at least quarterly, with
corresponding charges recorded against income in the period in which the
adjustment is made. To the extent that the actual cash flows exceed the
Company's discounted estimates, the Company will record additional servicing
fees in the periods in which the excess cash is received.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996 COMPARED TO THE NINE-MONTH TRANSITION PERIOD
  ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
 
    The Company changed its fiscal year-end from March 31 to December 31,
effective with the nine-month transition period ended December 31, 1995.
Accordingly, readers should take into account that the following discussion
compares figures for a full twelve month year to a nine-month period. The
discussion below does not attempt to explain, for each item discussed, the
extent to which the differing length of these periods has affected the figures.
 
    REVENUE.  During the year ended December 31, 1996, revenue increased $26.9
million, or 111.1%, compared to the nine-month transition period ended December
31, 1995. Net gain on sale of Contracts includes (i) the excess of the amount
realized on the sale of Contracts over the Company's net cost, (ii) the net
present value of estimated excess servicing fees on sold contracts, and (iii)
the recognition of deferred acquisition fees paid by Dealers net of related
acquisition costs. Net gain on sale of Contracts increased by $11.8 million, or
101.9%, and represented 45.6% of total revenue for the year ended December 31,
1996. The increase in gain on sale is largely due to the volume of Contracts
which were sold in the period. During the year ended December 31, 1996, the
Company sold $341.0 million in Contracts, compared to $155.7 million in the
nine-month transition period ended December 31, 1995.
 
    Servicing fees increased by $9.7 million, or 149.7%, and represented 31.6%
of total revenue. The increase in servicing fees is due to the Company's
continued expansion of its Contract purchase, sale and servicing activities. As
of December 31, 1996, the Company was earning servicing fees on 45,363 Contracts
approximating $483.1 million compared to 25,398 Contracts approximating $268.2
million as of December 31, 1995. In addition to the $483.1 million in sold
Contracts on which servicing fees were earned, the Company was holding for sale
and servicing an additional $22.8 million in Contracts for an aggregate
servicing portfolio of $505.9 million. Amortization of excess servicing
increased by $4.1 million and represented 27.5% of gross loan servicing fees for
the year ended December 31, 1996 versus 23.8% for the nine-month transition
period ended December 31, 1995. The increase is primarily due to the increase in
the average age of the Contracts making up the Company's Servicing Portfolio and
consequently the increase in charge-offs and corresponding reduction of
servicing fees. The Company expects these increases in the ratio of amortization
of excess servicing to gross loan servicing fees to continue until the size and
average age of the Servicing Portfolio stabilizes.
 
    Interest income on Contracts held for sale increased by $5.5 million, or
87.9%, representing 22.9% of total revenues for the year ended December 31,
1996. The increase is due to the increase in the volume of contracts purchased
and held for sale. During the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company
purchased $351.4 million in Contracts from Dealers, compared to $160.1 million
in the nine-month transition period ended December 31, 1995.
 
    EXPENSES.  During the year ended December 31, 1996, operating expenses
increased $15.9 million, or 137.1%, compared to the nine-month transition period
ended December 31, 1995. Employee costs increased by $5.6 million, or 169.6%,
and represented 32.4% of total operating expenses. The increase is due to the
addition of staff necessary to accommodate the Company's growth and certain
increases in
 
                                       23
<PAGE>
salaries of existing staff. General and administrative expenses increased by
$4.4 million, or 158.9% and represented 26.4% of total operating expenses.
Increases in general and administrative expenses included increases in
telecommunications, stationery, credit reports and other related items as a
result of increases in the volume of purchasing and servicing of Contracts.
Additionally, general and administrative expenses increased by $595,000 as a
result of including the company's share of losses incurred by NAB Asset
Corporation, in which the Company made a 38% equity investment on June 6, 1996.
 
    Marketing expenses increased by $448,000, or 36.4%, and represented 6.1% of
total expenses. The increase is primarily due to the increase in the volume of
contracts purchased as marketing representatives are compensated directly in
proportion to the number of Contracts the Company purchases from Dealers
serviced by the marketing representative. Additional increases in marketing
expense relate to other marketing expenses such as travel, promotion and
convention expenses.
 
    Interest expense increased $3.1 million, or 112.2%, and represented 21.0% of
total operating expenses. The increase is primarily due to the interest paid on
the $20.0 million in subordinated debt securities issued on December 20, 1995.
Interest expense was also impacted by the volume of Contracts held for sale as
well as by the Company's cost of borrowed funds.
 
    During the year ended December 31, 1996, the provision for losses on
Contracts held for sale increased by $1.9 million, or 232.6%, and represented
10.0% of total operating expenses. The increase in the provision reflects
somewhat higher charge-off rates and a larger volume of Contracts held prior to
sale when compared to the nine-month transition period ended December 31, 1995.
 
    The results for the year ended December 31, 1996 include net operating
losses of $491,000 from the Company's subsidiary Samco Acceptance Corp.
("Samco"). Samco was formed in March 1996 and provides the Company's products
and services to Dealers and independent finance companies primarily in rural
areas of the southeastern portion of the United States.
 
    The results for the year ended December 31, 1996 also include net operating
losses of $324,000 from the Company's subsidiary LINC Acceptance Corp. ("LINC").
LINC was formed in May 1996 and provides the Company's products and services to
credit unions and other depository institutions.
 
NINE-MONTH TRANSITION PERIOD ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED
  MARCH 31, 1995
 
    The Company changed its fiscal year-end from March 31 to December 31,
effective with the nine-month transition period ended December 31, 1995.
Accordingly, readers should take into account that the following discussion
compares figures for a nine-month period to a full twelve-month year. The
discussion below does not attempt to explain, for each item discussed, the
extent to which the differing length of these periods has affected the figures.
 
    REVENUES.  During the nine months ended December 31, 1995, revenues
increased $1.7 million, or 7.8%, compared to the year ended March 31, 1995. Net
gain on sale of Contracts, which includes (i) the excess of the amount realized
on the sale of Contracts over the Company's net cost, (ii) the net present value
of estimated excess servicing fees on sold Contracts, and (iii) the recognition
of acquisition fees paid by Dealers and deferred by the Company, increased by
$2.1 million, or 22.2%, and represented 47.6% of total revenues for the nine
months ended December 31, 1995. The increase in gain on sale is largely due to
the volume of Contracts which were sold in the period. During the nine months
ended December 31, 1995, the Company sold $155.7 million in Contracts, compared
to $140.6 million in the year ended March 31, 1995.
 
    Servicing fees decreased by $726,000, or 10.1%, and represented 26.7% of
total revenues. Servicing fees consist primarily of base and excess monthly
servicing fees earned on Contracts sold and serviced by the Company, as well as
servicing fees for certain third-party originated portfolios for which it has
been engaged as servicer. Servicing fees have been impacted by the Company's
continued expansion of its Contract purchase, sale and servicing activities. As
of December 31, 1995, the Company was earning
 
                                       24
<PAGE>
servicing fees on 25,398 Contracts and loans approximating $268.2 million
compared to 16,077 Contracts and loans approximating $169.3 million as of March
31, 1995. In addition to the $268.2 million in sold Contracts and loans on which
servicing fees were earned, the Company was holding for sale and servicing an
additional $20.8 million in Contracts for an aggregate total servicing portfolio
of $288.9 million at December 31, 1995. Amortization of excess servicing
increased by $819,000 and represented 23.8% of gross loan servicing fees for the
nine-month transition period ended December 31, 1995 versus 14.3% for the year
ended March 31, 1995. The increase is primarily due to the increase in the
average age of the Contracts making up the Company's securitized portfolio and
consequently the increase in charge-offs and corresponding reduction of
servicing fees.
 
    Interest income on Contracts warehoused for sale increased by $381,000, or
6.5%, representing 25.7% of total revenues for the nine months ended December
31, 1995. Interest income is closely related to the volume of Contracts
purchased and the length of time they are held by the Company prior to their
sale.
During the nine months ended December 31, 1995, the Company purchased $151.0
million in Contracts from Dealers, compared to $150.6 million in the year ended
March 31, 1995. In addition to Contracts purchased from Dealers, the Company
made two bulk purchases of portfolios of Contracts having an aggregate principal
balance of $9.2 million during the nine months ended December 31, 1995.
 
    EXPENSES.  During the nine months ended December 31, 1995, operating
expenses increased $239,131, or 2.1%, compared to the year ended March 31, 1995.
Employee costs increased by $318,886 or 10.7%, and represented 28.5% of total
operating expenses. The increase is due to the addition of staff necessary to
accommodate the Company's growth in its business as well as certain increases in
salaries of existing staff. General and administrative expenses increased by
$894,444, or 46.9% and represented 24.1% of total operating expenses. Increases
in general and administrative expenses included increases in telephone,
stationery, credit bureaus and other related items as a result of increases in
the volume of purchases and servicing of Contracts.
 
    Marketing expenses decreased by $533,011 or 30.2%, and represented 10.6% of
total expenses. The Company uses a combination of independent contractor and
employee marketing representatives all of whom are compensated directly in
proportion to the number of Contracts the Company purchases from Dealers
serviced by the marketing representative. Marketing expense is further impacted
by the Company's estimates for direct expenses made in accordance with deferring
contract origination costs.
 
    Interest expense decreased by $683,195, or 20.0%, and represented 23.5% of
total operating expenses. During the nine-month period ended December 31, 1995,
the Company's interest expense was affected by improved pricing on the Line, a
more favorable interest rate environment, and less reliance on other short term
financing, in part, as a result of the proceeds from the Company's issuance of
two million shares of common stock in March 1995.
 
    During the nine months ended December 31, 1995, the provision for losses on
Contracts held for sale increased by $295,511 or 55.4% and represented 7.1% of
total operating expenses. The increase in the provision reflects a larger volume
of Contracts held for a longer period of time prior to sale when compared to the
year ended March 31, 1995, and certain losses associated with Bulk Purchases in
the nine months ended December 31, 1995.
 
CHANGE OF FISCAL YEAR; 1994 RELEASE OF ESCROW SHARES
 
    In 1995, the Company changed its fiscal year-end from March 31 to December
31. For that reason, much of the information contained herein compares a fiscal
year ended March 31, 1995 with a nine-month transition period ended December 31,
1995, and then with a full fiscal year ended December 31, 1996. The table below
presents certain information on a calendar-year basis, for the calendar years
1994, 1995 and 1996. In that table, two columns present information regarding
the year ended December 31, 1994, one column including and one column excluding
the effect of a charge for release of Escrow Shares (as described below).
 
                                       25
<PAGE>
    Upon consummation of the Company's initial public offering which became
effective on October 22, 1992, the Company's controlling shareholder, Holdings,
deposited 1,200,000 shares of Common Stock (the "Escrow Shares") in escrow,
subject to release upon attainment of certain net income goals or stock price
levels. As of March 31, 1994, the Company exceeded the requisite levels. The
release of the Escrow Shares was deemed compensatory and resulted in a one-time,
non-cash charge for fiscal 1994 of $6.5 million which was equal to the market
value of the Escrow Shares at the time of their release. This one-time, non-cash
charge was offset by an identical increase in common stock and was not tax
deductible. Consequently, there was no impact on total shareholders' equity on
the Company's financial statements as a result of the release of the Escrow
Shares and the corresponding charge. The following table presents three-year
comparative information.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                               12 MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                        ------------------------------------------
                                                                          1996       1995      1994(1)    1994(2)
                                                                        ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------
                                                                          (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                                                     <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
REVENUES:
  Net gain on sale of contracts.......................................  $  23,321  $  13,719  $   9,980  $   9,980
  Servicing fees......................................................     16,169      9,019      6,175      6,175
  Interest............................................................     11,704      7,869      4,403      4,403
                                                                        ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------
                                                                           51,194     30,607     20,558     20,558
EXPENSES:
  Charge from release of escrow shares................................     --         --          6,450     --
  Selling, general and administrative.................................      9,694      5,276      3,651      3,651
  Employee costs......................................................      8,921      3,888      3,253      3,253
  Interest............................................................      5,781      3,842      2,520      2,520
  Provision for losses................................................      2,756      1,008        384        384
  Depreciation........................................................        275        209        169        169
  Related party consulting fees.......................................         75        350        350        350
                                                                        ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------
                                                                           27,502     14,573     16,777     10,327
                                                                        ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------
Income before taxes...................................................     23,692     16,034      3,781     10,231
Income taxes..........................................................      9,595      6,440      3,613      3,613
                                                                        ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------
    Net income........................................................  $  14,097  $   9,594  $     168  $   6,618
                                                                        ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------
                                                                        ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------
Primary income per share..............................................  $    0.95  $    0.71  $    0.02  $    0.61
Weighted average primary shares.......................................     14,850     13,431     10,932     10,932
Fully diluted income per share........................................  $    0.93  $    0.70  $    0.02  $    0.57
Fully diluted weighted average shares.................................     15,410     13,911     12,182     12,182
</TABLE>
 
- ------------------------
 
(1) Results include the non-cash one time charge from the release of Escrow
    Shares.
 
(2) Results exclude the non-cash one time charge from the release of Escrow
    Shares.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
    The Company's primary sources of cash from operating activities include base
and excess servicing fees it earns on portfolios of Contracts it has previously
sold, proceeds on the sales of Contracts in excess of its recorded investment of
the Contracts, amortization and release of investments in credit enhancement
balances pledged in conjunction with the securitization of its Contracts,
borrower payments on Contracts held for sale, and interest earned on Contracts
held for sale. The Company's primary uses of cash include its normal operating
expenses, the establishment and build-up of Spread Accounts used for credit
enhancement to their maintenance levels, and income taxes.
 
                                       26
<PAGE>
    Net cash used in operating activities was $9.7 million during the year ended
December 31, 1996 compared to net cash used of $18.5 million during the nine
month transition period ended December 31, 1995. Cash used for purchasing
Contracts was $351.4 million, an increase of $191.2 million, or 119.4%, over
cash used for purchasing Contracts in the nine month transition period ended
December 31, 1995. Cash provided from the liquidation of Contracts was $346.5
million, an increase of $189.6 million, or 120.8%, over cash provided from
liquidation of Contracts in the nine month transition period ended December 31,
1995.
 
    During the year ended December 31, 1996, cash used for initial deposits to
Spread Accounts was $12.3 million, an increase of $7.3 million, or 149.0%, from
the amount of cash used for initial deposits to Spread Accounts in the nine
month transition period ended December 31, 1995. Cash from excess servicing
deposited to Spread Accounts for the year ended December 31, 1996, was $18.8
million, an increase of $11.2 million, or 148.8%, over cash from excess
servicing deposited to Spread Accounts in the nine month transition period ended
December 31, 1995. Cash released from Spread Accounts for the year ended
December 31, 1996, was $17.9 million, an increase of $10.2 million, or 133.2%,
over cash released from Spread Accounts in the nine month transition period
ended December 31, 1995. Changes in deposits to and releases from Spread
Accounts are impacted by the relative size, seasoning and performance of the
various pools of sold Contracts that make up the Company's Servicing Portfolio.
 
    Delinquencies as a percent of the gross Servicing Portfolio increased from
5.1% at December 31, 1995 to 6.8% at December 31, 1996. Increases in delinquency
can be attributed to the continued aging of the Company's Servicing Portfolio,
and to the fact that during 1996 the Company often allowed a borrower more time
to resolve a delinquency prior to ordering repossession than it had allowed in
prior periods. To accommodate the resulting higher levels of delinquency, the
Company restructured certain aspects of its agreements with FSA in November
1996. Under the restructured agreements, the levels of delinquency that trigger
increased Spread Account requirements have been raised, so that the higher
delinquency levels currently experienced by the Company do not result in
increased Spread Account requirements. The Company cannot predict with assurance
whether delinquency and loss rates will continue to increase, but a further
increase in average delinquency and in losses should be expected if the average
age of the Servicing Portfolio continues to rise. Whether the average age of the
Servicing Portfolio increases will depend in part on the rate of the Company's
continued growth (rapid growth in originations decreases the average age of the
Servicing Portfolio), as to which there can be no assurance.
 
    During the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company purchased 38% of the
outstanding common stock of NAB Asset Corporation for approximately $4.3
million. See "Business--Expansion and Diversification".
 
    The Company's cash requirements have been and will continue to be
significant. The agreements under which the Company has securitized and sold its
Contracts required the Company to make a significant initial cash deposit, for
purposes of credit enhancement, to a Spread Account which is pledged to support
the related asset-backed securities, and is invested in high quality liquid
securities. Excess cash flows from the securitized Contracts are deposited into
the Spread Accounts until such time as the Spread Account balance reaches a
specified percent of the outstanding balance of the related asset-backed
securities. Since its June 1995 securitization, and, it is expected, on an
ongoing basis, the Company altered the credit enhancement mechanism used in its
securitizations to create a subordinated class of asset-backed securities (a "B
Piece") in order to reduce the size of the required initial deposit to the
Spread Accounts. This revised structure may, if the Company is able to continue
to sell the B Piece, reduce the amount of cash that the Company must invest or
set aside in Spread Accounts in future securitizations. The Company continues to
hold the B Piece associated with its June 1995 transaction, but has sold and
believes it will be able to continue to sell the B Pieces created in subsequent
securitizations. The aggregate balances of the Spread Accounts associated with
each securitization of Contracts, together with the one B Piece held by the
Company, are reflected as "Investments in credit enhancements" on the Company's
consolidated balance sheet.
 
                                       27
<PAGE>
    The table below documents the Company's history of Contract securitizations,
comprising sales to 16 securitization trusts.
 
                      STRUCTURED CONTRACT SECURITIZATIONS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
  PERIOD FUNDED                     RATINGS(1)    RATING AGENCY                  POOL NAME
- ------------------   SECURITIZED    -----------  ----------------  -------------------------------------
                    DOLLAR AMOUNT
                    --------------
                    (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                 <C>             <C>          <C>               <C>
April 1993           $      4,990        A        Duff & Phelps    Alton Grantor Trust 1993-1
May 1993                    3,933        A        Duff & Phelps    Alton Grantor Trust 1993-1
June 1993                   3,467        A        Duff & Phelps    Alton Grantor Trust 1993-1
July 1993                   5,575        A        Duff & Phelps    Alton Grantor Trust 1993-2
August 1993                 3,336        A        Duff & Phelps    Alton Grantor Trust 1993-2
September 1993              3,578        A        Duff & Phelps    Alton Grantor Trust 1993-2
October 1993                1,921        A        Duff & Phelps    Alton Grantor Trust 1993-2
November 1993               1,816        A        Duff & Phelps    Alton Grantor Trust 1993-3
December 1993               6,694        A        Duff & Phelps    Alton Grantor Trust 1993-3
January 1994                1,998        A        Duff & Phelps    Alton Grantor Trust 1993-3
March 1994                 20,787        A        Duff & Phelps    Alton Grantor Trust 1993-4
June 1994                  24,592     Aaa/AAA      Moody's/S&P     CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1994-1
September 1994             28,916     Aaa/AAA      Moody's/S&P     CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1994-2
October 1994               13,136     Aaa/AAA      Moody's/S&P     CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1994-3
December 1994              28,893     Aaa/AAA      Moody's/S&P     CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1994-4
February 1995              20,084     Aaa/AAA      Moody's/S&P     CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1995-1
June 1995                  49,290     Aaa/AAA      Moody's/S&P     CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1995-2
September 1995             45,009     Aaa/AAA      Moody's/S&P     CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1995-3
September 1995              2,369       BB             S&P         CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1995-3
December 1995              53,634     Aaa/AAA      Moody's/S&P     CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1995-4
December 1995               2,823       BB             S&P         CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1995-4
March 1996                 63,747     Aaa/AAA      Moody's/S&P     CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1996-1
March 1996                  3,355       BB             S&P         CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1996-1
June 1996 (2)              84,456     Aaa/AAA      Moody's/S&P     Fasco Auto Grantor Trust 1996-1
June 1996                   4,445       BB             S&P         Fasco Auto Grantor Trust 1996-1
September 1996             87,523     Aaa/AAA      Moody's/S&P     CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1996-2
September 1996              4,606       BB             S&P         CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1996-2
December 1996              88,215     Aaa/AAA      Moody's/S&P     CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1996-3
December 1996               4,643       BB             S&P         CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1996-3
                    --------------
                     $    667,831
                    --------------
                    --------------
</TABLE>
 
- ------------------------
 
(1) Commencing with the securitization completed on June 28, 1994, the principal
    and interest due on the asset-backed securities issued by the various
    grantor trusts are guaranteed by Financial Security Assurance Inc. ("FSA"),
    enabling the issuer to obtain Aaa/AAA ratings for the asset-backed
    securities issued in such transactions. See "Business--Purchase and Sale of
    Contracts--Securitization and Sale of Contracts to Institutional Investors."
 
(2) Commencing with the securitization completed on June 27, 1996, asset-backed
    securities with Aaa/ AAA ratings have been sold through public offerings
    pursuant to registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission.
 
                                       28
<PAGE>
    Cash flows are impacted by the use of the Warehouse Line of Credit which is
in turn impacted by the amount of Contracts the Company holds for sale. At
December 31, 1996, the Warehouse Line of Credit had an outstanding balance of
$13.3 million compared to $7.5 million at December 31, 1995. Borrowings under
the Warehouse Line of Credit rise during each fiscal quarter and then are
substantially repaid when the Company completes a Contract securitization, which
has occurred near the end of each quarter during the past two fiscal years. The
maximum amount outstanding under the Warehouse Line of Credit during 1996 was
$92.1 million and the average was $41.2 million. In June 1995 the Company
entered into two new agreements which restructured the Warehouse Line of Credit
and increased the maximum available amount to $100.0 million. The primary
agreement provides for loans by Redwood Receivables Corporation ("Redwood") to
the Company, to be funded by commercial paper issued by Redwood and secured by
Contracts pledged periodically by the Company. The Redwood facility provides for
a maximum of $100.0 million of advances to the Company, with interest at a
variable rate tied to prevailing commercial paper rates. When the Company wishes
to securitize these Contracts, a substantial part of the proceeds received from
Investors is paid to Redwood, which simultaneously releases the pledged
Contracts for transfer to a pass-through securitization trust. The second
agreement is a standby line of credit with GECC, also with a $100.0 million
maximum, which the Company may use only if and to the extent that Redwood does
not provide funding as described above. The GECC line is secured by Contracts
and substantially all the other assets of the Company. Both agreements extend
through November 30, 1998. The two agreements are viewed as a single short-term
warehouse line of credit, with advances varying according to the amount of
pledged Contracts. All references in this Prospectus to the Warehouse Line of
Credit refer, since June 1995, to the Redwood facility and, unless the context
indicates otherwise, the standby line of credit with GECC.
 
    Prior to October 29, 1992, the Company was dependent on capital
contributions and loans by Holdings (which was then the sole shareholder of the
Company) to satisfy its cash requirements. On October 29, 1992, the Company
raised approximately $4.9 million (net of offering expenses) in an initial
public offering. On March 12, 1993, the Company borrowed $2.0 million from Sun
Life through the issuance of a convertible note in conjunction with an agreement
by that investor to purchase up to $50.0 million of the Company's Contracts. On
July 5, 1995, Sun Life converted this note into 533,334 shares of the Company's
Common Stock. On November 16, 1993, the Company borrowed an additional $3.0
million from Sun Life through the issuance of a convertible note in conjunction
with that investor's commitment to purchase an additional $50.0 million in
Contracts. On January 17, 1997, Sun Life converted this note into 480,000 shares
of Common Stock. On November 23, 1993, the Company issued and sold 333,334
shares of Common Stock in a private transaction at a price of $4.50 per share
($1.5 million in the aggregate). In May and October, 1994, the Company borrowed
an aggregate of $5.0 million pursuant to three short term notes, all of which
were repaid in March 1995 with proceeds from the March 7, 1995 public offering
of 2.0 million shares of the Company's stock at a price of $7.38 per share. In
December 1995, the Company issued $20 million of debt in the form of Rising
Interest Subordinated Redeemable Securities ("RISRS").
 
    The Company anticipates that the proceeds from this offering, the funds
available under the Warehouse Line of Credit, proceeds from the sale of
Contracts, and cash from operations will be sufficient to satisfy the Company's
estimated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months, assuming that the
Company continues to have a means by which to sell its warehoused Contracts. If
for any reason the Company is unable to sell its Contracts, or if the Company's
available cash otherwise proves to be insufficient to fund operations (because
of future changes in the industry, general economic conditions, unanticipated
increases in expenses, or other factors), the Company may be required to seek
additional financing.
 
    On November 1, 1996, the Company began to rent an additional 7,000 square
feet of contiguous office space in accordance with the Company's lease
agreement. In addition, the Company recently acquired an additional, and
significantly upgraded, IBM AS/400 computer. This hardware serves as the primary
 
                                       29
<PAGE>
platform on which the Company processes its Contracts. The Company anticipates
that it will incur certain limited capital expenditures during the next twelve
months as its business continues to grow. The Company expects to incur occupancy
expenses of approximately $50,000 per month in connection with its Chesapeake,
Virginia satellite facility, which were not incurred in fiscal 1996. Personnel
and other expenses may also increase, depending on the extent of any continuing
growth in the Company's business (as to which there can be no assurance) and the
availability of personnel.
 
NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
 
    In June 1996, the Financial Accounting Standards board issued SFAS No. 125,
Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments
of Liabilities. SFAS No. 125 is effective for transfers and servicing of
financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities occurring after December 31,
1996 and is to be applied prospectively. This Statement provides accounting and
reporting standards for transfers and servicing of financial assets and
extinguishments of liabilities based on consistent application of a
financial-components approach that focuses on control. It distinguishes
transfers of financial assets that are sales from transfers that are secured
borrowings. Management of the Company does not expect that adoption of SFAS No.
125 will have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of
operations or liquidity.
 
                                       30
<PAGE>
                                    BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
    The Company is a consumer finance company specializing in the business of
purchasing, selling and servicing Contracts originated by Dealers in the sale of
new and used automobiles, light trucks and passenger vans. Through its
purchases, the Company provides indirect financing to Sub-Prime Borrowers. The
Company serves as an alternative source of financing for Dealers, allowing sales
to customers who otherwise might not be able to obtain financing from more
traditional sources of automobile financing such as banks, credit unions or
finance companies affiliated with major automobile manufacturers.
 
HISTORY
 
    The Company was incorporated in March 1991 as a wholly owned subsidiary of
CPS Holdings, Inc. ("Holdings") (formerly known as FWB Acceptance Corp.).
Holdings was formed in April 1990 by Charles E. Bradley, Sr., the Chairman of
the Board of the Company, in order to enter into the automobile financing
business. Mr. Bradley believed that the Sub-Prime Borrower segment of this
business had the potential for growth and profit due in part to the withdrawal
from such business by many savings and loan associations and other financial
institutions. In December 1995, Holdings was merged with and into the Company.
 
    The period from March 8, 1991 (the Company's inception) through May 1991 was
devoted to the start-up of the Company's operations. On May 31, 1991, the
Company first acquired certain third-party loan servicing contracts and in June
1991 began earning servicing fee income. The Company thereafter added to its
third-party loan servicing portfolio and, in October 1991, began acquiring
Contracts and selling them to GECC. To date, the Company has sold $42.6 million
in Contracts to GECC and an additional $100.1 million to Sun Life. Since June
1994, the Company has issued an additional $545.4 million of "AAA"-rated and
$22.2 million of "BB"-rated certificates backed by Contracts to various
institutional investors. Since June 1996, all sales of "AAA"-rated certificates
have been made in public offerings pursuant to registration statements filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. See "Servicing of
Contracts--Third-Party Loan Servicing" and "Purchase and Sale of
Contracts--Securitization and Sale of Contracts to Institutional Investors."
 
AUTOMOBILE FINANCING INDUSTRY
 
    Automobile financing is the largest category, by dollar amount, of consumer
installment debt in the United States. Most traditional sources of automobile
financing, such as commercial banks, credit unions and captive finance companies
affiliated with major automobile manufacturers, generally provide automobile
financing for the most creditworthy, or so-called "prime" borrowers. The Company
believes that the strong credit performance and large size of the market have
led to intense price competition in the financing market for prime borrowers,
and, in turn, low profit margins, effectively limiting this market to only the
largest participants. In addition, special low-rate financing programs offered
by automobile manufacturers' captive finance companies to promote the sale of
specific automobiles have added to the competition within the prime borrower
market.
 
    Although prime borrowers represent the largest segment of the automobile
financing market, there are many potential purchasers of automobiles who do not
qualify as prime borrowers. Purchasers considered by the Company to be Sub-Prime
Borrowers have limited credit histories, low incomes or past credit problems
and, therefore, are unable to obtain credit from traditional sources of
automobile financing, such as commercial banks, credit unions or captive finance
companies affiliated with major automobile manufacturers. (The terms "prime" and
"sub-prime" reflect the Company's categorization of borrowers and bear no
relationship to the prime rate of interest or persons who are able to borrow at
that rate.) The Company believes that, because these potential purchasers
represent a substantial market, there
 
                                       31
<PAGE>
is a demand by automobile dealers for Sub-Prime Borrower financing that has not
been effectively served by traditional automobile financing sources.
 
    According to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as of
March 1996, there was approximately $359 billion in automobile-related
installment credit outstanding. The Company is unaware of any authoritative
estimates of the size of the "non-prime" portion of this market, although
various sources have estimated that the potential loan base in this portion of
the market is between $50 billion and $70 billion. Based on these figures, the
Company's Servicing Portfolio represents less than one percent of the market.
 
BUSINESS STRATEGY
 
    The Company's primary objective is to increase revenue and earnings through
the expansion of its sales and servicing of Contracts purchased from Dealers.
The Company has substantial operational and administrative capacity to expand
its business. The Company's strategy is to:
 
    - Maintain consistent underwriting standards and portfolio performance.
 
    - Increase the number of Contracts it purchases from its existing Dealers.
 
    - Expand its Dealer network, in part by entry into other geographic areas.
      During the year ended December 31, 1996, 52.1% of the Contracts acquired
      by the Company related to borrowers who resided in California, Florida,
      Pennsylvania and Texas (see "Purchase and Sale of Contracts-- Dealer
      Contract Purchase Program").
 
    - Control and/or reduce its cost of funds by proper structuring of its
      securitization offerings and by obtaining the necessary ratings from
      nationally recognized credit rating agencies.
 
    - Evaluate opportunities to provide additional products and services, such
      as automobile insurance, credit cards and extended maintenance contracts.
 
EXPANSION AND DIVERSIFICATION
 
    In March 1996, the Company formed Samco Acceptance Corp. ("Samco"), an 80
percent-owned subsidiary based in Dallas, Texas. Samco's business plan is to
provide the Company's sub-prime auto finance products to rural areas through
independently owned finance companies. The Company believes that many rural
areas are not adequately served by other industry participants due to their
distance from large metropolitan areas where a Dealer marketing representative
is most likely to be based.
 
    Samco employees call on independent finance companies ("IFCs"), primarily in
the southeastern United States and present them with financing programs that are
essentially identical to those which the Company markets directly to Dealers
through its marketing representatives. The Company believes that a typical rural
IFC has relationships with many local automobile purchasers as well as Dealers
who, because of their financial resources or capital structure are generally
unable to provide 36, 48 or 60 month financing for an automobile. IFCs may offer
Samco's financing programs to borrowers directly or to local Dealers. Upon
submission of applications to Samco, credit personnel who have been trained by
the Company use the Company's proprietary systems to evaluate the borrower and
the proposed Contract terms. Samco purchases Contracts from the IFCs after its
credit personnel have performed all of the underwriting and verification
procedures that the Company performs for Contracts it purchases from Dealers.
Servicing and collection procedures on Samco Contracts are performed by the
Company at its headquarters in Irvine, California. However, Samco may solicit
aid from the IFC in collecting accounts that are seriously past due. As of
December 31, 1996, Samco had purchased 399 Contracts with original balances
aggregating $4.7 million.
 
    In May 1996, the Company formed LINC Acceptance Corp. ("LINC"), an 80
percent-owned subsidiary based in Norwalk, Connecticut. LINC's business plan is
to provide the Company's sub-prime
 
                                       32
<PAGE>
auto finance products to credit unions, banks and savings and loans ("Deposit
Institutions"). The Company believes that credit unions, banks and savings and
loans do not generally make loans to sub-prime borrowers, even though they may
have relationships with Dealers and have sub-prime borrowers as deposit
customers.
 
    LINC proposes to have certain of its employees call on various Deposit
Institutions and present them with a financing program that is similar to those
which the Company markets directly to Dealers through its marketing
representatives. The LINC program is intended to result in a slightly more
creditworthy borrower than the Company's regular programs by requiring slightly
higher income and lower debt-to-income ratios. LINC's customers may offer its
financing program to borrowers directly or to local Dealers. Unlike Samco, which
has employees who evaluate applications and make decisions to purchase
Contracts, LINC applications will be submitted by the Deposit Institution
directly to the Company, where the approval, underwriting and purchase
procedures will be performed by Company staff who will work with LINC as well as
with the Company's Dealers. Servicing and collection procedures on LINC
Contracts will be performed entirely by the Company using its personnel. As of
December 31, 1996, LINC had purchased seven Contracts with original balances
aggregating $81,000.
 
    In June 1996, the Company acquired 38% of the outstanding shares of NAB
Asset Corporation ("NAB") for $4.3 million. At the time of the acquisition, NAB
had approximately $3.5 million in cash and no significant operations. Subsequent
to the Company's investment in NAB, NAB purchased Mortgage Portfolio Services,
Inc. ("MPS") from the Company for $300,000. MPS is a Dallas, Texas-based
mortgage broker-dealer which the Company formed in April 1996. MPS specializes
in the origination and sale of sub-prime residential mortgages. In July 1996,
NAB formed CARSUSA, Inc., which subsequently purchased a Mitsubishi dealership
in Riverside, California. The Company provides CARSUSA with an $800,000 line of
credit for financing its vehicle inventory. In November 1996, NAB purchased Mack
Financial Ltd, a small appliance "rent to own" company based in Dallas, Texas.
 
    In January 1997, the Company purchased 80% of the outstanding shares of an
equipment financing company, Stanwich Leasing, Inc. ("SLI"), from its
shareholders, who included two directors of the Company, Charles E. Bradley, Sr.
and John G. Poole. The purchase price was $100,000 in cash. As of December 31,
1996, SLI owned and serviced an outstanding equipment lease portfolio of
approximately $2.0 million, and had a book value of approximately $37,000. See
"Certain Transactions".
 
PURCHASE AND SALE OF CONTRACTS
 
    DEALER CONTRACT PURCHASE PROGRAM.  As of December 31, 1996, the Company was
a party to Dealer Agreements with 2,182 Dealers. Approximately 93.2% of these
Dealers are franchised new car dealers that sell both new and used cars and the
remainder are independent used car dealers. For the year ended December 31,
1996, approximately 88.5% of the Contracts purchased by the Company consisted of
financing for used cars and the remaining 11.5% for new cars. Most of these
Dealers regularly submit Contracts to the Company for purchase, although such
Dealers are under no obligation to submit any Contracts to the Company, nor is
the Company obligated to purchase any Contracts. During the year ended December
31, 1996, no Dealer accounted for more than 2.3% of the total number of
Contracts purchased by the Company. In addition, the Company continues to
diversify geographically, and has reduced its concentration of Contract
purchases in California from 35.0% for the year ended December 31, 1995, to
25.8% for the year ended December 31, 1996. The following table sets forth the
geographical sources of the Contracts purchased by the Company (based on the
addresses of the borrowers
 
                                       33
<PAGE>
as stated on the Company's records) during each of the years ended December 31,
1996 and December 31, 1995.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               CONTRACTS PURCHASED DURING YEAR ENDED
                                                         --------------------------------------------------
                                                            DECEMBER 31, 1996         DECEMBER 31, 1995
                                                         ------------------------  ------------------------
                                                           NUMBER       PERCENT      NUMBER       PERCENT
                                                         -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
California.............................................       7,296         25.8%       5,157         35.0%
Pennsylvania...........................................       2,730          9.6%       1,432          9.7%
Florida................................................       2,638          9.3%       1,555         10.6%
Texas..................................................       2,073          7.3%       1,046          7.1%
Illinois...............................................       1,385          4.9%         963          6.5%
Tennessee..............................................       1,225          4.3%         221          1.5%
New York...............................................       1,201          4.2%         384          2.6%
Louisiana..............................................       1,184          4.2%         271          1.8%
Ohio...................................................       1,180          4.2%         119          0.8%
Nevada.................................................       1,060          3.7%         750          5.1%
Maryland...............................................         920          3.3%         106          0.7%
Alabama................................................         906          3.2%          93          0.6%
Michigan...............................................         788          2.8%         598          4.1%
New Jersey.............................................         625          2.2%         308          2.1%
Hawaii.................................................         507          1.8%         452          3.1%
Other states...........................................       2,587          9.1%       1,283          8.7%
                                                         -----------               -----------
  Total................................................      28,305                    14,738
                                                         -----------               -----------
                                                         -----------               -----------
</TABLE>
 
    When a retail automobile buyer elects to obtain financing from a Dealer, an
application is taken for submission by the Dealer to its financing sources.
Typically, a Dealer will submit the buyer's application to more than one
financing source for review. The Company believes the Dealer's decision to
finance the automobile purchase with the Company, rather than other financing
sources, is based primarily upon an analysis of the discounted purchase price
offered for the Contract, the timeliness, consistency and predictability of
response, the cash resources of the financing source, and any conditions to
purchase.
 
    Upon receipt of an application from a Dealer, the Company's administrative
personnel order a report containing information from the three major national
credit bureaus on the applicant to document the buyer's credit history. If, upon
review by a Company loan officer, it is determined that the application meets
the Company's underwriting criteria, or would meet such criteria with
modification, the Company requests and reviews further information and
supporting documentation and, ultimately, decides whether to purchase the
Contract. When presented with an application, the Company attempts to notify the
Dealer within four hours as to whether it intends to purchase such Contract. The
Company buys Contracts directly from Dealers and does not make loans directly to
purchasers of automobiles.
 
    The Company has historically purchased Contracts from Dealers at discounts
ranging from 0% to 10% of the total amount financed under the Contracts,
depending on the perceived credit risk of the Contract, plus a flat acquisition
fee, generally $200, for each Contract purchased. Discounts averaged 4.1% and
2.8% for the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1996, respectively. The Company
believes that the level of discounts and fees are a significant factor in the
Dealer's decision to submit a Contract to the Company for purchase, and will
continue to play such a role in the future. Effective January 10, 1997, the
Company began purchasing all Contracts without a percentage discount, charging
Dealers only an acquisition fee ranging from zero to $1,195 for each Contract
purchased. The fees vary based on the perceived credit risk and, in some cases,
the interest rate on the Contract. The acquisition fees instituted in January
1997 are larger, on average, than the acquisition fees previously charged in
conjunction with percentage discounts, so as to result in a similar net purchase
price on a typical Contract.
 
                                       34
<PAGE>
    The Company attempts to control Dealer misrepresentation by carefully
screening the Contracts it purchases, by establishing and maintaining
professional business relationships with Dealers, and by including certain
representations and warranties by the Dealer in the Dealer Agreement. Pursuant
to the Dealer Agreement, the Company may require the Dealer to repurchase any
Contract in the event that the Dealer breaches its representations or warranties
or if a borrower fails, for any reason, to make timely payment of the first
installment due under a Contract. There can be no assurance, however, that any
Dealer will have the financial resources to satisfy its repurchase obligations
to the Company.
 
    BULK PURCHASES.  The Company has purchased portfolios of Contracts and
assumed the servicing thereon in bulk from other companies that had previously
purchased the Contracts from Dealers. To date, the Company has made four such
bulk purchases aggregating approximately $22.9 million. In considering Bulk
Purchases, the Company carefully evaluates the credit profile and payment
history of each portfolio and negotiates the purchase price accordingly. The
credit profiles of the Contracts in each of the portfolios purchased are similar
to those in the underwriting standards used by the Company in its normal course
of business. The Bulk Purchases were made at purchase prices ranging from 93.0%
to 100.0% of the aggregate principal balance of the Contracts. The Company may
consider the purchase of additional portfolios from third parties, but has not
made any such purchases since August 1995. As of December 31, 1996, Contracts
that were acquired in Bulk Purchases and not yet sold account for 0.2% of the
Servicing Portfolio.
 
    CONTRACT PURCHASE CRITERIA.  To be eligible for purchase by the Company, a
Contract must have been originated by a Dealer that has entered into a Dealer
Agreement to sell Contracts to the Company. The Contracts must be secured by a
first priority lien on a new or used automobile, light truck or passenger van
and must meet the Company's underwriting criteria. In addition, each Contract
requires the borrower to maintain physical damage insurance covering the
financed vehicle and naming the Company as a loss payee. The Company or any
purchaser of the Contract from the Company may, nonetheless, suffer a loss upon
theft or physical damage of any financed vehicle if the borrower fails to
maintain insurance as required by the Contract and is unable to pay for repairs
to or replacement of the vehicle or is otherwise unable to fulfill its
obligations under the Contract.
 
    The Company believes that its objective underwriting criteria enable it to
evaluate effectively the creditworthiness of Sub-Prime Borrowers and the
adequacy of the financed vehicle as security for a Contract. These criteria
include standards for price; term; amount of down payment, installment payment
and add-on interest rate; mileage, age and type of vehicle; amount of the
Contract in relation to the value of the vehicle; borrower's income level, job
and residence stability, credit history and debt serviceability; and other
factors. Specifically, the Company's guidelines limit the maximum principal
amount of a purchased Contract to 115% of wholesale book value in the case of
used vehicles or to 110% of the manufacturer's invoice in the case of new
vehicles, plus, in each case, sales tax, licensing and, when the customer
purchases such additional items, a service contract or a credit life or
disability policy. The Company does not finance vehicles that are more than
eight model years old or have in excess of 85,000 miles. The maximum term of a
purchased Contract is 60 months; a shorter maximum term may be applied based on
the year and mileage of the vehicle. These criteria are subject to change from
time to time as circumstances may warrant. Upon receiving this information with
the borrower's application, the Company's underwriters will verify the
borrower's employment, residency, insurance and credit information provided by
the borrower by contacting various parties noted on the borrower's application,
credit information bureaus and other sources. The Company typically completes
its credit review and responds to the Dealer within four hours.
 
    CREDIT SCORING.  Since its inception the Company has purchased $729.1
million in Contracts and, as of December 31, 1996, has an outstanding servicing
portfolio of $505.9 million. The Company's management information systems are
structured to include a variety of credit and demographic data for each Contract
as well as maintaining data which indicate each Contract's past or current
performance characteristics.
 
                                       35
<PAGE>
Furthermore, the Company's technical staff have the ability to interrogate the
database to compare performing and non-performing Contracts and to ascertain
which demographic and credit related data elements may be predictors of credit
performance.
 
    In November 1996, the Company implemented a scoring model which assigns each
Contract a numeric value (a "credit score") at the time the application is
received from the Dealer and the borrower's credit information is retrieved from
the credit reporting agencies. The credit score is based on a variety of
parameters such as the borrower's job and residence stability, the amount of the
down payment, and the age and mileage of the vehicle. The Company has developed
the credit score as a means of improving its productivity by identifying
Contracts where the characteristics are so strong (or alternatively, so weak),
that the initial notification to the Dealer can be given without the more
extensive analysis that a Company loan officer would give to a more average
scoring Contract. Regardless of the credit score a Contract originally receives,
the Company's underwriters perform the same extensive review and verification
procedures on all Contracts. In addition to productivity improvements, the
credit score is used to identify Contracts for which review by a supervisor or
manager prior to approval and purchase may be appropriate.
 
    Once an application is approved, financing documents are generated by the
Dealer and the Company obtains a certificate of title for the vehicle when a
lien is recorded, and various other documents pertaining to the borrower's
credit application. After the documents are signed by the Dealer and the
borrower, the Dealer sells the Contract to the Company. The borrower then
receives monthly billing statements.
 
    All of the Contracts purchased by the Company are fully amortizing and
provide for level payments over the term of the Contract. The average original
principal amount financed under Contracts purchased in the year ended December
31, 1996 was approximately $12,606, with an average original term of
approximately 54.0 months and an average down payment of 15.3%. Based on
information contained in borrower applications, for this twelve-month period,
the retail purchase price of the related automobiles averaged $12,855 (which
excludes tax and license fees, and any additional costs such as a maintenance
contract), the average age of the vehicle at the time the Contract was purchased
was 3 years, and the Company's average borrower at the time of purchase was
approximately 37.0 years old, with approximately $32,007 in average household
income and an average of 4.6 years' history with his or her current employer.
 
    All Contracts may be prepaid at any time without penalty. In the event a
borrower elects to prepay a Contract in full, the payoff amount is calculated by
deducting the unearned interest (as determined by the "Rule of 78s" method,
where applicable) from the Contract balance. When a partial prepayment is made
on a Contract originated in California, at the option of the borrower, the
future monthly payments may be reduced pro rata by the aggregate amount of the
prepayment, payment of the next succeeding regular monthly payments may be
suspended, or the borrower may continue to make the regular monthly payments and
thereby pay the Contract in full prior to its scheduled amortization. With
respect to Contracts originated outside of California, the portion of each
payment on the Contracts allocated to principal and interest and the payoff
amount in the event of a full prepayment would be determined by the Rule of 78s
method or such other interest amortization method as is permitted by applicable
state law.
 
    Each Contract purchased by the Company prohibits the sale or transfer of the
financed vehicle without the Company's consent and allows for the acceleration
of the maturity of a Contract upon a sale or transfer without such consent. In
most circumstances, the Company will not consent to a sale or transfer of a
financed vehicle unless the related Contract is prepaid in full.
 
    The Company believes that the most important requirements to succeed in the
sub-prime automobile financing market are the ability to control borrower and
Dealer misrepresentation at the point of origination; the development and
consistent implementation of objective underwriting criteria specifically
designed to evaluate the creditworthiness of Sub-Prime Borrowers; and the
maintenance of an active program to monitor performance and collect payments.
 
                                       36
<PAGE>
    SECURITIZATION AND SALE OF CONTRACTS TO INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS.  The
Company purchases Contracts with the intention of reselling them to Investors
either as bulk sales or as asset-backed securities. Asset-backed securities are
generally structured as follows: First, the Company sells a portfolio of
Contracts to a wholly-owned subsidiary which has been established for the
limited purpose of buying and reselling the Company's Contracts. The subsidiary
then sells the same Contracts to a grantor trust, and the grantor trust in turn
issues interest-bearing asset-backed securities in an amount equal to the
aggregate principal balance of the Contracts. One or more Investors purchase
these asset-backed securities, the proceeds of which are used by the grantor
trust to purchase the Contracts from the subsidiary, which uses such proceeds to
purchase the Contracts from the Company. In addition, the Company provides a
credit enhancement for the benefit of investors in the form of an initial cash
deposit to a specific trust account ("Spread Account") and a deposit of certain
excess servicing cash flows. Since its September 1995 securitization, and, it is
expected, on an ongoing basis in the future, the Company altered the credit
enhancement mechanism used in its securitizations to create and sell a
subordinated security ("B Piece") in order to reduce the size of the required
initial deposit to the Spread Account. The B Piece provides an additional credit
enhancement to the senior security holders because distributions of interest on
the B Piece are subordinated in priority of payment to interest due on the
senior certificates and distributions of principal on the B Piece are
subordinated in priority of payment to interest and principal due on the senior
certificates. This revised structure may, if the Company is able to continue to
sell the B Piece, reduce the amount of cash effectively used in securitizations.
The Company continues to hold the B Piece associated with the June 1995
securitization but has sold all subsequent B Pieces. The Company believes it
will be able to continue to sell the B Pieces created in its future
securitizations. Purchasers of the asset-backed securities receive a particular
coupon rate (the "Pass-Through Rate") established at the time of the sale. The
Company receives periodic base servicing fees for its duties relating to the
accounting for and collection of the Contracts. In addition, the Company is
entitled to certain excess servicing fees that represent collections on the
Contracts in excess of the amounts required to pay investor principal and
interest, the base servicing fees and certain other fees such as trustee and
custodial fees. Generally, the Company sells the Contracts at face value and
without recourse except that the representations and warranties provided by the
Dealer to the Company are similarly provided by the Company to the investor.
 
    At the end of the month, the aggregate cash collections are allocated first
to the base servicing fees and certain other fees such as trustee and custodial
fees for the period, then to the asset-backed securities certificateholder in an
amount equal to the interest accrued at the Pass-Through Rate on the portfolio
plus the amount by which the portfolio balance decreased (due to payments,
payoffs or charge-offs) during the period. If the amount of cash required for
the above allocations exceeds the amount collected during the monthly period,
the shortfall is drawn from the Spread Account. If the cash collected during the
period exceeds the amount necessary for the above allocations, and there is no
shortfall in the related Spread Account, the excess is returned to the Company
or one of its subsidiaries. The excess cash flows are considered by the Company
to be excess servicing fees, part of which the Company recognizes as a gain on
sale based on an estimate of the discounted present value of the excess cash
flows.
 
    Each sale of asset-backed securities results in an increase in the Excess
Servicing Receivables account on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet and
the recognition of a "Net Gain on Sale of Contracts" on the Company's
Consolidated Statement of Operations for the period in which the sale was made.
The
 
                                       37
<PAGE>
Excess Servicing Receivables account is increased by a portion of the gain
recognized on each securitization which represents principally the net present
value of estimated future cash flows relating to the Contracts which were sold,
calculated as follows:
 
        (i) the present value of all future interest and principal payments
    expected to be received by the Company over the remaining life of the
    Contracts;
 
                   less
 
        (ii) the Contracts' principal payments which are required to be passed
    through to the investors in the period in which they were received plus
    interest payments required to be made to investors at the Pass-Through Rate
    established at the time of securitization, and certain other fees and
    expenses associated with the securitization transaction, including the base
    servicing fee paid to the Company in respect of its obligations to service
    the borrowers' Contracts.
 
    Because the APR on the Contracts received by the Company is relatively high
in comparison to the Pass-Through Rate paid to investors, the net present value
described above can be significant. In calculating the net gain on sale
described above, the Company must estimate the future rates of prepayments,
delinquencies, defaults and default loss severity as they impact the amount and
timing of the cash flows in the net present value calculation. The cash flows
received by the Company are then discounted at an interest rate that the Company
believes a third-party purchaser would require as a rate of return. Expected
losses are discounted using a rate equivalent to the risk free rate for
securities with a duration similar to that estimated for the underlying
Contracts.
 
    In future periods, the Company will recognize additional revenue in the
Servicing Fees account if the actual performance of the Contracts is better than
the original discounted estimate. Although the Company has never recognized a
writedown against the Excess Servicing Receivables account, if the actual
performance of the Contracts is worse than the original discounted estimate,
then such a writedown would be required. The Company's actual excess servicing
cash flows, however, historically have exceeded the Company's original
discounted estimates.
 
    The Company's first significant sales consisted of an aggregate of $17.6
million of Contracts sold from October 1, 1991 through January 31, 1993 to GECC
pursuant to an agreement that expired on December 31, 1992. On March 16, 1995,
the Company sold an additional $25.0 million in Contracts to GECC for an
aggregate total of $42.6 million sold to GECC. On April 7, 1993, the Company
began selling Contracts to Sun Life pursuant to various agreements. As of
December 31, 1996, the Company had sold approximately $100.1 million in
Contracts to Sun Life, $42.1 million of which was sold in the form of "Aaa/AAA"
rated securities, as discussed below. As of December 31, 1996, the unpaid
balance of the Contracts sold to Sun Life was approximately $25.0 million and
the unpaid balance of Contracts sold to GECC was approximately $11.2 million.
 
    Contract sales to GECC were in the form of whole loan sales. All of the
Contracts sold to Sun Life have been in the form of asset-backed securities
issued by grantor trusts to which a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company has
sold the Contracts. The first $58.1 million of the certificates sold to Sun Life
were rated "A" by Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co. The principal and interest due
on the remaining $42.0 million of the certificates sold to Sun Life are
guaranteed by Financial Security Assurance Inc. ("FSA"), and, as a result, such
certificates were rated "Aaa" by Moody's Investors Service and "AAA" by Standard
& Poor's Corporation.
 
    On June 23, 1994, the Company began using various investment banking firms
to place its asset-backed securities issues. The certificates have been issued
by grantor trusts to which a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company has sold the
related Contracts. Through December 31, 1996, the Company had delivered
approximately $612.3 million principal amount of Contracts (of which
approximately $461.7 million was outstanding at December 31, 1996) to twelve
grantor trusts pursuant to these arrangements. The principal and interest due on
the certificates issued pursuant to these arrangements are guaranteed by
 
                                       38
<PAGE>
FSA and, as a result, such certificates are rated "Aaa" by Moody's Investors
Services and "AAA" by Standard & Poor's Corporation. Since June 1996, the
Company has sold such "AAA"-rated certificates in public offerings pursuant to
registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
    In connection with the sale of the Contracts, the Company is required to
make certain representations and warranties, which generally duplicate the
substance of the representations and warranties made by Dealers in connection
with the Company's purchase of the Contracts. If the Company breaches any of its
representations or warranties to a purchaser of the Contracts, the Company will
be obligated to repurchase the Contract from such purchaser at a price equal to
such purchaser's purchase price less the related cash securitization reserve and
any payments received by such purchaser on the Contract. In most cases, the
Company would then be entitled under the terms of its Dealer Agreement to
require the selling Dealer to repurchase the Contract at a price equal to the
Company's purchase price, less any payments made by the borrower. Subject to any
recourse against Dealers, the Company will bear the risk of loss on repossession
and resale of vehicles under Contracts repurchased by it.
 
    TERMS OF SERVICING AGREEMENTS.  The Company currently services all Contracts
sold and expects to service all Contracts that it purchases and sells in the
future, whether structured as whole loan sales or sales of asset-backed
securities. Pursuant to the Company's usual form of servicing agreement (the
Company's servicing agreements are collectively referred to as the "Servicing
Agreements"), the Company is obligated to service all Contracts sold to the
investors or trusts in accordance with the Company's standard procedures. The
Servicing Agreements generally provide that the Company will bear all costs and
expenses incurred in connection with the management, administration and
collection of the Contracts serviced. The Servicing Agreements also provide that
the Company will take all actions necessary or reasonably requested by the
investor to maintain perfection and priority of the investor's or the trust's
security interest in the financed vehicles.
 
    Upon the sale of a portfolio of Contracts to an investor or a trust, the
Company mails to borrowers monthly billing statements directing them to mail
payments on the Contracts to a lock-box account. The Company engages an
independent lock-box processing agent to retrieve and process payments received
in the lock-box account. This results in a daily deposit to the investor's or
the trust's bank account of the entire amount of each day's lock-box receipts
and the simultaneous electronic data transfer to the Company of borrower payment
data for posting to the Company's computerized records. Pursuant to the
Servicing Agreements, the Company is required to deliver monthly reports to the
investor or the trust reflecting all transaction activity with respect to the
Contracts. The reports contain, among other information, a reconciliation of the
change in the aggregate principal balance of the Contracts in the portfolio to
the amounts deposited into the investor's or the trust's bank account as
reflected in the daily reports of the lock-box processing agent.
 
    The Company is entitled under most of the Servicing Agreements to receive a
base monthly servicing fee of 2.0% per annum computed as a percentage of the
declining outstanding principal balance of each Contract in the portfolio that
is not in default as of the beginning of the month. Each month, after payment of
the Company's base monthly servicing fee and certain other fees, the investor
receives the paid principal reduction of the Contracts in its portfolios and
interest thereon at the Pass-Through Rate. If, in any month, collections on the
Contracts are insufficient to pay such amounts and any principal reduction due
to charge-offs, the shortfall is satisfied from the Spread Account established
in connection with the sale of the portfolio. (If the Spread Account is not
sufficient to satisfy a shortfall, then the investor or trust may suffer a loss
to the extent that the shortfall exceeds the Spread Account.) If collections on
the Contracts exceed such amounts, the excess is utilized, first, to build up or
replenish the Spread Account to the extent required, next, to cover deficiencies
in Spread Accounts for other portfolios, and the balance, if any, constitutes
excess servicing fees, which are distributed to the Company. If, in any month,
the Spread Account balance is in excess of that required under the commitment or
the Servicing Agreements, the Company is entitled to receive such excess. The
Servicing Agreements also provide that the Company is entitled to receive
certain late fees collected from borrowers.
 
                                       39
<PAGE>
    Pursuant to the Servicing Agreements, the Company is generally required to
charge off the balance of any Contract by the earlier of the end of the month in
which the Contract becomes five scheduled installments past due or, in the case
of repossessions, the month that the proceeds from the liquidation of the
financed vehicle are received by the Company. In the case of a repossession, the
amount of the charge-off is the difference between the outstanding principal
balance of the defaulted Contract and the repossession sale proceeds. In the
event collections on the Contracts are not sufficient to pay to the investor the
entire principal balance of any Contracts charged off during the month, the
Spread Account established in connection with the sale of the Contracts is
reduced by the unpaid principal amount of such Contracts. Such amount would then
have to be restored to the Spread Account from future collections on the
Contracts remaining in the portfolio before the Company would again be entitled
to excess servicing fees. In addition, the Company would not be entitled to
receive any further base monthly servicing fees with respect to the defaulted
Contracts. Subject to any recourse against the Company in the event of a breach
of the Company's representations and warranties with respect to any Contracts
and after any recourse to any FSA guarantees backing the certificates, the
investor bears the risk of all charge-offs on the Contracts in excess of the
Spread Account. However, the Company would experience a reduction of excess
servicing fees in the event of greater than anticipated charge-offs or
prepayments on Contracts sold and serviced by the Company.
 
    The Servicing Agreements are terminable by the investor in the event of
certain defaults by the Company and under certain other circumstances.
 
SERVICING OF CONTRACTS
 
    GENERAL.  The Company's servicing activities, both with respect to
portfolios of Contracts sold by it and with respect to loans owned or originated
by third parties, consist of collecting, accounting for and posting of all
payments received; responding to borrower inquiries; taking all necessary action
to maintain the security interest granted in the financed vehicle or other
collateral; investigating delinquencies; communicating with the borrower to
obtain timely payments; repossessing and reselling the collateral when
necessary; and generally monitoring each Contract and any related collateral.
 
    COLLECTION PROCEDURES.  The Company believes that its ability to monitor
performance and collect payments owed from Sub-Prime Borrowers is primarily a
function of its collection approach and support systems. The Company believes
that if payment problems are identified early and the Company's collection staff
works closely with borrowers to address these problems, it is possible to
correct many of them before they deteriorate further. To this end, the Company
utilizes pro-active collection procedures, which include making early and
frequent contact with delinquent borrowers; educating borrowers as to the
importance of maintaining good credit; and employing a consultative and customer
service approach to assist the borrower in meeting his or her obligations, which
includes attempting to identify the underlying causes of delinquency and cure
them whenever possible. In support of its collection activities, the Company
maintains a computerized collection system specifically designed to service
automobile installment sale contracts with Sub-Prime Borrowers and similar
consumer loan contracts. See "Business--Management Information Systems."
 
    With the aid of its high penetration auto dialer, the Company typically
attempts to make telephonic contact with delinquent borrowers on the sixth day
after their monthly payment due date. Using coded instructions from a collection
supervisor, the automatic dialer will attempt to contact borrowers based on
their physical location, state of delinquency, size of balance or other
parameters. If the automatic dialer obtains a "no-answer" or a busy signal, it
records the attempt on the borrower's record and moves on to the next call. If a
live voice answers the automatic dialer's call, the call is transferred to a
waiting collector at the same time that the borrower's pertinent information is
simultaneously displayed on the collector's workstation. The collector then
inquires of the borrower the reason for the delinquency and when the Company can
expect to receive the payment. The collector will attempt to get the borrower to
make a promise for the delinquent payment for a time generally not to exceed one
week from the date of the call.
 
                                       40
<PAGE>
If the borrower makes such a promise, the account is routed to a pending queue
and is not contacted until the outcome of the promise is known. If the payment
is made by the promise date and the account is no longer delinquent, the account
is routed out of the collection system. If the payment is not made, or if the
payment is made, but the account remains delinquent, the account is returned to
the automatic dialing queue for subsequent contacts.
 
    If a borrower fails to make or keep promises for payments, or if the
borrower is uncooperative or attempts to evade contact or hide the vehicle, a
supervisor will review the collection activity relating to the account to
determine if repossession of the vehicle is warranted. Generally, such a
decision will occur between the 45th and 90th day past the borrower's payment
due date, but could occur sooner or later, depending on the specific
circumstances.
 
    If a decision to repossess is made by a supervisor, such assignment is given
to one of many licensed, bonded repossession agents used by the Company. When
the vehicle is recovered, the repossession agent delivers it to a wholesale auto
auction where it is kept until it is liquidated, usually within 30 days of the
repossession. Liquidation proceeds are applied to the borrower's outstanding
obligation under the Contract and the borrower is advised of his obligation to
pay any deficiency balance that remains. The Company uses all practical means
available to collect deficiency balances, including filing for judgments against
borrowers where applicable.
 
    A repossession in the event of default generally does not yield proceeds
sufficient to pay all amounts owing under a Contract. The actual cash value of
the vehicle may be less than the amount financed at inception of the Contract,
and also thereafter, because the amount financed may be as much as 115% of the
wholesale book value in the case of used vehicles or 110% of manufacturer's
invoice in the case of new vehicles, plus sales tax, licensing fees, and any
service contract or credit life or disability policy purchased by the borrower,
less the borrower's down payment and/or trade-in allowance (generally not less
than 10% of the vehicle sales price). In addition, the proceeds available upon
resale are reduced by statutory liens, such as those for repairs, storage,
unpaid taxes and unpaid parking fines, and by the costs incurred in the
repossession and resale. Unless the Contract is sufficiently seasoned that the
borrower has substantial equity in the vehicle, the proceeds of sale are
generally insufficient to pay all amounts owing. For that reason, the Company's
collection policies aim to avoid repossession to the extent possible. In order
to do so, the Company may extend the payment due date of a Contract within
limits specified in the Servicing Agreements. Included in the Servicing
Portfolio at December 31, 1996 are 5,680 Contracts for which the purchaser of
the underlying vehicle had been granted at least a one month payment extension.
Of such extended Contracts, 4,814 were current based on the modified payment
terms.
 
                                       41
<PAGE>
    The Company's excess servicing fees are impacted by the relative performance
of the portfolios of Contracts it has sold to institutional investors. The
tables below document the delinquency, repossession and net credit loss
experience of all Contracts originated by the Company since its inception:
 
                           DELINQUENCY EXPERIENCE(1)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  DECEMBER 31, 1996        DECEMBER 31, 1995         MARCH 31, 1995
                                               -----------------------  -----------------------  -----------------------
                                                NUMBER OF                NUMBER OF                NUMBER OF
                                                  LOANS       AMOUNT       LOANS       AMOUNT       LOANS       AMOUNT
                                               -----------  ----------  -----------  ----------  -----------  ----------
                                                                  (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                            <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>
Gross Servicing Portfolio....................      47,187   $  604,092      27,129   $  356,114      18,104   $  248,550
Period of delinquency (2)
  31-60 days.................................       1,801       22,099         910       11,525         299        3,878
  61-90 days.................................         724        9,068         203        2,654          70          948
  91+ days...................................         768        9,906         273        3,912         101        1,487
                                               -----------  ----------  -----------  ----------  -----------  ----------
Total delinquencies (2)......................       3,293       41,073       1,386       18,091         470        6,313
Amount in repossession (3)...................       1,168       14,563         836       10,179         367        5,271
                                               -----------  ----------  -----------  ----------  -----------  ----------
Total delinquencies and amount in
  repossession (2)...........................       4,461       55,636       2,222       28,270         837       11,584
                                               -----------  ----------  -----------  ----------  -----------  ----------
                                               -----------  ----------  -----------  ----------  -----------  ----------
Delinquencies as a percent of gross Servicing
  Portfolio..................................         7.0%         6.8%        5.1%         5.1%        2.6%         2.5%
Total delinquencies and amount in
  repossession as a percent of gross
  Servicing Portfolio........................         9.5%         9.2%        8.2%         7.9%        4.6%         4.7%
</TABLE>
 
- ------------------------
 
(1) All amounts and percentages are based on the full amount remaining to be
    repaid on each Contract, including, for Rule of 78s Contracts, any unearned
    finance charges. The information in the table represents the principal
    amount of all Contracts purchased by the Company, including Contracts
    subsequently sold by the Company which it continues to service.
 
(2) The Company considers a Contract delinquent when an obligor fails to make at
    least 90% of a contractually due payment by the following due date, which
    date may have been extended within limits specified in the Servicing
    Agreements, as discussed above. The period of delinquency is based on the
    number of days payments are contractually past due. Contracts less than 31
    days delinquent are not included.
 
(3) Amount in repossession represents financed vehicles which have been
    repossessed but not yet liquidated.
 
                                       42
<PAGE>
                          NET CHARGE-OFF EXPERIENCE(1)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          TRANSITION PERIOD     FISCAL YEAR
                                         YEAR ENDED             ENDED           ENDED MARCH
                                      DECEMBER 31, 1996  DECEMBER 31, 1995(2)     31, 1995
                                      -----------------  --------------------  --------------
                                                      (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                   <C>                <C>                   <C>
Average Servicing Portfolio
  outstanding.......................     $   397,430         $    240,864        $  128,004
Net charge-offs as a percent of
  average Servicing Portfolio (3)...             5.1%                 4.9%              4.0%
</TABLE>
 
- ------------------------
 
(1) All amounts and percentages are based on the principal amount scheduled to
    be paid on each Contract. The information in the table represents all
    Contracts purchased by the Company including Contracts subsequently sold by
    the Company which it continues to service.
 
(2) The percentages set forth for the nine-month transition period ended
    December 31, 1995, are computed using annualized operating data which do not
    necessarily represent comparable data for a full twelve-month period.
 
(3) Net charge-offs include the remaining principal balance, after the
    application of the net proceeds from the liquidation of the vehicle
    (excluding accrued and unpaid interest). For periods prior to the year ended
    December 31, 1996, post liquidation amounts received on previously charged
    off Contracts were applied to the period in which the related Contract was
    originally charged off. These prior period allocations were made only for
    the purpose of calculating this ratio. For financial statement purposes,
    post liquidation amounts are recognized in the period received. Effective
    January 1, 1996, post liquidation amounts received on previously charged off
    Contracts are applied in the period in which they are received, both for
    this ratio and financial statement purposes. Excludes uninsured casualty
    losses which for the year ended December 31, 1996, the nine-month transition
    period ended December 31, 1995, and the year ended March 31, 1995 were $1.7
    million, $604,000 and $205,000, respectively.
 
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
 
    The Company maintains sophisticated data processing support and management
information systems. To support its collection efforts, the Company utilizes
Digital Systems International's Intelligent Dialing System-TM-, a
high-penetration automatic dialer, in conjunction with the American Management
Systems' Computer Assisted Collection System software, which has been customized
by the Company, and numerous accounting software programs. All systems are
operated at the Company's offices on an Advance System IBM AS/400 computer.
 
    The Company's high-penetration automatic dialer controls multiple telephone
lines and automatically dials numbers from file records in accordance with
programmed instructions established by management. If the dialer receives a busy
signal or no answer, it will generally route the number for a subsequent
re-call. The dialer has the ability to distinguish a pre-recorded voice and will
leave the appropriate digitized human voice message on the borrower's answering
machine. Generally, the dialer transfers the call to a collector only after it
has determined that there is a live voice on the line. In most instances, this
is accomplished so rapidly that the individual receiving the call is unaware
that an automatic dialer has been used. The efficiency of the auto dialer allows
the Company to place as many as 5,000 telephone calls per day.
 
    The high-penetration automatic dialer also monitors telephone activity and
activates more telephone lines when connect rates are low or shuts down lines
when connect rates are high. Once a live call is passed to a collector, all
relevant account information, including one of 99 account status codes,
automatically appears on the collector's video screen. The Company believes the
capabilities of the automatic dialer
 
                                       43
<PAGE>
reduce the likelihood that an account will remain delinquent for a prolonged
period without appropriate follow-up.
 
    The Company's automation allows it to electronically sort and prioritize
each collector's workload as well as to implement specific collection
strategies. Moreover, the Company has adopted certain procedural controls
designed to ensure that certain important decisions, such as ordering a
repossession, initiating legal action or materially modifying an account, are
automatically routed to a supervisor for review and approval.
 
    The Company believes that the capacity of its existing data processing
support and management information systems is sufficient to allow the Company to
substantially expand its business without significant additional capital
expenditures.
 
COMPETITION
 
    The automobile financing business is highly competitive. The Company
competes with a number of national, local and regional finance companies with
operations similar to those of the Company. In addition, competitors or
potential competitors include other types of financial services companies, such
as commercial banks, savings and loan associations, leasing companies, credit
unions providing retail loan financing and lease financing for new and used
vehicles, and captive finance companies affiliated with major automobile
manufacturers such as General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Ford Motor Credit
Corporation, Chrysler Credit Corporation and Nissan Motors Acceptance
Corporation. Many of the Company's competitors and potential competitors possess
substantially greater financial, marketing, technical, personnel and other
resources than the Company. Moreover, the Company's future profitability will be
directly related to the availability and cost of its capital in relation to the
availability and cost of capital to its competitors. The Company's competitors
and potential competitors include far larger, more established companies that
have access to capital markets for unsecured commercial paper and investment
grade-rated debt instruments and to other funding sources which may be
unavailable to the Company. Many of these companies also have long-standing
relationships with Dealers and may provide other financing to dealers, including
floor plan financing for the Dealers' purchase of automobiles from
manufacturers, which is not offered by the Company.
 
    The Company believes that the principal competitive factors affecting a
Dealer's decision to offer Contracts for sale to a particular financing source
are the purchase price offered for the Contracts, the reasonableness of the
financing source's underwriting guidelines and documentation requests, the
predictability and timeliness of purchases and the financial stability of the
funding source. The Company believes that it can obtain from Dealers sufficient
Contracts for purchase at attractive prices by consistently applying reasonable
underwriting criteria and making timely purchases of qualifying Contracts.
 
    The Company believes that it can compete effectively for the interest of
institutional investors in purchasing Contracts acquired by the Company based
upon the historical performance of portfolios of Contracts sold and serviced by
it and its willingness to establish substantial Spread Accounts for the benefit
of investors and to derive a portion of its revenues from excess servicing fees
paid on a monthly basis rather than up-front fees paid at the time of sale of
the Contracts.
 
MARKETING
 
    The Company establishes relationships with Dealers through Company
representatives that contact a prospective Dealer to explain the Company's
Contract purchases and thereafter provide Dealer training and support services.
As of December 31, 1996, the Company had 48 representatives, 31 of whom are
employees and 17 of whom are independent. The independent representatives are
contractually obligated to represent the Company's financing program
exclusively. The Company's representatives present the Dealer with a marketing
package, which includes the Company's promotional material containing the
current discount rate offered by the Company for the purchase of Contracts, a
copy of the Company's
 
                                       44
<PAGE>
standard-form Dealer Agreement, examples of monthly reports and required
documentation relating to Contracts, but they have no authority relating to the
decision to purchase Contracts from Dealers. The Company's acceptance of a
Dealer is subject to its analysis of, among other things, the Dealer's operating
history.
 
    The Company has not actively advertised its automobile financing or
third-party loan servicing businesses, although it may do so selectively in the
future.
 
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
 
    The Company intends to obtain and maintain all licenses necessary to the
lawful conduct of its business and operations. The Company is not licensed to
make loans directly to borrowers.
 
    Several federal and state consumer protection laws, including the Federal
Truth-In-Lending Act, the Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Federal Fair
Debt Collection Practices Act and the Federal Trade Commission Act, regulate the
extension of credit in consumer credit transactions. These laws mandate certain
disclosures with respect to finance charges on Contracts and impose certain
other restrictions on Dealers. In addition, laws in a number of states impose
limitations on the amount of finance charges that may be charged by Dealers on
credit sales. The so-called Lemon Laws enacted by the federal government and
various states provide certain rights to purchasers with respect to motor
vehicles that fail to satisfy express warranties. The application of Lemon Laws
or violation of such other federal and state laws may give rise to a claim or
defense of a borrower against a Dealer and its assignees, including the Company
and purchasers of Contracts from the Company. The Dealer Agreement contains
representations by the Dealer that, as of the date of assignment of Contracts,
no such claims or defenses have been asserted or threatened with respect to the
Contracts and that all requirements of such federal and state laws have been
complied with in all material respects. Although a Dealer would be obligated to
repurchase Contracts that involve a breach of such warranty, there can be no
assurance that the Dealer will have the financial resources to satisfy its
repurchase obligations to the Company. Certain of these laws also regulate the
Company's servicing activities, including its methods of collection.
 
    Although the Company believes that it is currently in compliance with
applicable statutes and regulations, there can be no assurance that the Company
will be able to maintain such compliance. The failure to comply with such
statutes and regulations could have a material adverse effect upon the Company.
Furthermore, the adoption of additional statutes and regulations, changes in the
interpretation and enforcement of current statutes and regulations or the
expansion of the Company's business into jurisdictions that have adopted more
stringent regulatory requirements than those in which the Company currently
conducts business could have a material adverse effect upon the Company. In
addition, due to the consumer-oriented nature of the industry in which the
Company operates and the application of certain laws and regulations, industry
participants are regularly named as defendants in litigation involving alleged
violations of federal and state laws and regulations and consumer law torts,
including fraud. Many of these actions involve alleged violations of consumer
protection laws. Although the Company is not involved in any material
litigation, a significant judgment against the Company or within the industry in
connection with any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial condition and results of operations.
 
    Upon the purchase of Contracts by the Company, the original Contracts and
related title documents for the financed vehicles are delivered by the selling
Dealers to the Company. Upon the sale of each portfolio of Contracts by the
Company, a financing statement is filed under the Uniform Commercial Code as
adopted in the applicable state (the "UCC") to perfect and give notice of the
purchaser's security interest in the Contracts.
 
    The Dealer Agreement and related assignment contain representations and
warranties by the Dealer that an application for state registration of each
financed vehicle, naming the Company as secured party with respect to the
vehicle, was effected at the time of sale of the related Contract to the
Company, and
 
                                       45
<PAGE>
that all necessary steps have been taken to obtain a perfected first priority
security interest in each financed vehicle in favor of the Company under the
laws of the state in which the financed vehicle is registered. If a Dealer or
the Company, because of clerical error or otherwise, has failed to take such
action in a timely manner, or to maintain such interest with respect to a
financed vehicle, neither the Company nor any purchaser of the related Contract
from the Company would have a perfected security interest in the financed
vehicle and its security interest may be subordinate to the interest of, among
others, subsequent purchasers of the financed vehicle, holders of perfected
security interests and a trustee in bankruptcy of the borrower. The security
interest of the Company or the purchaser of a Contract may also be subordinate
to the interests of third parties if the interest is not perfected due to
administrative error by state recording officials. Moreover, fraud or forgery by
the borrower could render a Contract unenforceable against third parties. In
such events, the Company could be required by the purchaser to repurchase the
Contract. In the event the Company is required to repurchase a Contract, it will
generally have recourse against the Dealer from which it purchased the Contract.
This recourse will be unsecured except for a lien on the vehicle covered by the
Contract, and there can be no assurance that any Dealer will have the financial
resources to satisfy its repurchase obligations to the Company. Subject to any
recourse against Dealers, the Company will bear any loss on repossession and
resale of vehicles financed under Contracts repurchased by it from investors.
 
    Under the laws of many states, liens for storage and repairs performed on a
vehicle and for unpaid taxes take priority over a perfected security interest in
the vehicle. Pursuant to its securitization purchase commitments, the Company
generally warrants that, to the best of the Company's knowledge, no such liens
or claims are pending or threatened with respect to a financed vehicle, which
may be or become prior to or equal with the lien of the related Contracts. In
the event that any of the Company's representations or warranties proves to be
incorrect, the trust or the investor would be entitled to require the Company to
repurchase the Contract relating to such financed vehicle.
 
    The Company, on behalf of purchasers of Contracts, may take action to
enforce the security interest in financed vehicles with respect to any related
Contracts in default by repossession and resale of the financed vehicles. The
UCC and other state laws regulate repossession sales by requiring that the
secured party provide the borrower with reasonable notice of the date, time and
place of any public sale of the collateral, the date after which any private
sale of the collateral may be held and of the borrower's right to redeem the
financed vehicle prior to any such sale and by providing that any such sale be
conducted in a commercially reasonable manner. Financed vehicles repossessed
generally are resold by the Company through unaffiliated wholesale automobile
networks or auctions, which are attended principally by used car dealers.
 
    In the event of a repossession and resale of a financed vehicle, after
payment of outstanding liens for storage, repairs and unpaid taxes, to the
extent those liens take priority over the Company's security interest, and after
payment of the reasonable costs of retaking, holding and selling the vehicle,
the secured party would be entitled to be paid the full outstanding balance of
the Contract out of the sale proceeds before payments are made to the holders of
junior security interests in the financed vehicles, to unsecured creditors of
the borrower, or, thereafter, to the borrower. Under the UCC and other laws
applicable in most states (including California), a creditor is entitled to
obtain a deficiency judgment from a borrower for any deficiency on repossession
and resale of the motor vehicle securing the unpaid balance of such borrower's
Contract. However, some states impose prohibitions or limitations on deficiency
judgments. If a deficiency judgment were granted, the judgment would be a
personal judgment against the borrower for the shortfall, and a defaulting
borrower may often have very little capital or few sources of income available
following repossession. Therefore, in many cases, it may not be useful to seek a
deficiency judgment against a borrower or, if one is obtained, it may be settled
at a significant discount.
 
                                       46
<PAGE>
PROPERTY
 
    The Company's headquarters are located in Irvine, California, where it
leases approximately 51,400 square feet of general office space from an
unaffiliated lessor. The annual rent is $524,596 through the year 2000, the
final year of the lease. In addition, the Company pays the property taxes,
maintenance and other common area expenses of the premises, currently at the
approximate annual rate of $98,000. All such amounts are payable monthly. The
Company has an option to extend the lease for an additional five years upon
terms substantially similar to those of the existing lease.
 
    The Company plans to establish a branch facility in Chesapeake, Virginia.
The Company has agreed to lease approximately 18,600 square feet of general
office space in Chesapeake at an initial annual rent of $260,666, increasing to
$333,652 over a ten-year term. In addition, the Company is in discussions with
its current landlord in California regarding a lease of a larger headquarters
location or of additional space. Although the terms of any such lease have not
been fixed as yet, the Company believes that adequate facilities are available.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
    As of December 31, 1996, the Company had 325 full-time and 5 part-time
employees, of whom 10 are management personnel, 102 are collections personnel,
119 are Contract origination personnel, 37 are marketing representatives, 53 are
operations personnel, and 9 are accounting personnel. The Company believes that
its relations with its employees are good. The Company is not a party to any
collective bargaining agreement.
 
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
    As of the date of this Prospectus, the Company was not involved in any
material litigation in which it is the defendant. The Company regularly
initiates legal proceedings as a plaintiff in connection with its routine
collection activities.
 
                                       47
<PAGE>
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                             PAGE
                                                                                                           REFERENCE
                                                                                                         -------------
<S>                                                                                                      <C>
Independent Auditors' Report...........................................................................          F-1
 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1996 and 1995.........................................          F-2
 
  Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 1996, the nine-month period
    ended December 31, 1995, and the year ended March 31, 1995.........................................          F-3
 
  Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the year ended December 31, 1996, the nine-month
    period ended December 31, 1995, and the year ended March 31, 1995..................................          F-4
 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 1996, the nine-month period
    ended December 31, 1995, and the year ended March 31, 1995.........................................          F-5
 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 1996, the nine-month
    period ended December 31, 1995 and the year ended March 31, 1995...................................          F-6
</TABLE>
 
                                       68
<PAGE>
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
The Board of Directors
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
 
    We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Consumer
Portfolio Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and
the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash
flows for the year ended December 31, 1996, for the nine-month period ended
December 31, 1995, and for the year ended March 31, 1995. These consolidated
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.
 
    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
    In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Consumer
Portfolio Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year ended December
31, 1996, for the nine-month period ended December 31, 1995, and for the year
ended March 31, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.
 
                                             KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
 
Orange County, California
February 14, 1997
 
                                      F-1
<PAGE>
               CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,
                                                                                         1996           1995
                                                                                    --------------  -------------
 
<S>                                                                                 <C>             <C>
                                                ASSETS (note 11)
Cash..............................................................................  $      153,958  $  10,895,157
Contracts held for sale (notes 5 and 11)..........................................      21,656,773     19,548,842
Servicing fees receivable.........................................................       3,086,194      1,454,707
Investment in subordinated certificates...........................................        --            2,174,666
Investments in credit enhancements (note 2).......................................      43,597,472     30,477,793
Excess servicing receivables (note 7).............................................      23,654,461     11,108,251
Furniture and equipment, net (note 3).............................................         629,774        548,535
Taxes receivable..................................................................         610,913       --
Deferred financing costs (note 11)................................................         943,222      1,100,430
Investment in unconsolidated affiliate (note 4)...................................       2,263,768       --
Other assets (note 4).............................................................       5,349,885        569,944
                                                                                    --------------  -------------
                                                                                    $  101,946,420  $  77,878,325
                                                                                    --------------  -------------
                                                                                    --------------  -------------
 
                                      LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
LIABILITIES
Accounts payable & accrued expenses...............................................  $    1,697,051  $   1,341,905
Warehouse line of credit (note 11)................................................      13,264,585      7,500,000
Taxes payable.....................................................................        --            2,912,084
Deferred tax liability (note 10)..................................................       7,027,251      1,643,254
Notes payable (note 11)...........................................................      20,000,000     20,000,000
Convertible subordinated debt (note 11)...........................................       3,000,000      3,000,000
                                                                                    --------------  -------------
                                                                                        44,988,887     36,397,243
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (notes 8 and 11)
Preferred stock, $1 par value; authorized 5,000,000 shares; none issued...........        --             --
Series A preferred stock, $1 par value; authorized 5,000,000 shares; 3,415,000
  shares issued; none outstanding.................................................        --             --
Common stock, no par value; authorized 30,000,000 shares; 13,779,242 and
  13,298,642 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 1996 and 1995,
  respectively....................................................................      34,644,314     33,265,239
Retained earnings.................................................................      22,313,219      8,215,843
                                                                                    --------------  -------------
                                                                                        56,957,533     41,481,082
Commitments and contingencies (notes 4, 5, 6, 8, 9 and 12)
Subsequent events (notes 9, 11 and 14)
                                                                                    --------------  -------------
                                                                                    $  101,946,420  $  77,878,325
                                                                                    --------------  -------------
                                                                                    --------------  -------------
</TABLE>
 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
 
                                      F-2
<PAGE>
               CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                      NINE MONTHS
                                                                       YEAR ENDED        ENDED       YEAR ENDED
                                                                      DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,     MARCH 31,
                                                                          1996           1995           1995
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
<S>                                                                   <C>            <C>            <C>
REVENUES:
Net gain on sale of contracts (note 7)..............................  $  23,321,015  $  11,549,413  $   9,454,620
Servicing fees (note 6).............................................     16,168,867      6,475,405      7,201,062
Interest............................................................     11,703,921      6,229,895      5,849,154
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                                         51,193,803     24,254,713     22,504,836
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
EXPENSES:
Employee costs......................................................      8,920,521      3,309,139      2,990,253
General and administrative..........................................      7,247,011      2,799,599      1,905,155
Interest............................................................      5,780,529      2,724,403      3,407,598
Provision for credit losses (note 5)................................      2,755,803        828,458        532,947
Marketing...........................................................      1,678,674      1,231,110      1,764,121
Occupancy...........................................................        768,521        267,641        254,845
Depreciation and amortization.......................................        275,348        174,555        153,355
Related party consulting fees (note 4)..............................         75,000        262,500        350,000
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                                         27,501,407     11,597,405     11,358,274
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
Income before income taxes..........................................     23,692,396     12,657,308     11,146,562
Income taxes (note 10)..............................................      9,595,020      5,082,186      4,480,932
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
Net income..........................................................  $  14,097,376  $   7,575,122  $   6,665,630
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
Net income per common and common equivalent share...................  $        0.95  $        0.53  $        0.60
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
Weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares......     14,849,609     14,323,592     11,143,268
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
Fully diluted net income per common and common equivalent share.....  $        0.93  $        0.52  $        0.56
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
Fully diluted weighted average number of common and common
 equivalent shares..................................................     15,410,044     14,803,592     12,538,352
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                                      -------------  -------------  -------------
</TABLE>
 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
 
                                      F-3
<PAGE>
               CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              SERIES A                                          RETAINED
                                          PREFERRED STOCK               COMMON STOCK            EARNINGS
                                     --------------------------  ---------------------------  (ACCUMULATED
                                       SHARES        AMOUNT         SHARES        AMOUNT        DEFICIT)         TOTAL
                                     -----------  -------------  ------------  -------------  -------------  -------------
<S>                                  <C>          <C>            <C>           <C>            <C>            <C>
Balance at March 31, 1994..........    3,415,000  $   3,415,000     8,733,334  $  12,810,689  $  (6,024,909) $  10,200,780
Common stock issued upon exercise
 of warrants.......................      --            --              39,466        118,398       --              118,398
Common stock issued upon exercise
 of options........................      --            --              48,000        120,000       --              120,000
Common stock issuance, net (note
 8)................................      --            --           2,000,000     13,304,550       --           13,304,550
Redemption of Preferred Stock (note
 8)................................   (3,415,000)    (3,415,000)      --            --             --           (3,415,000)
Net income.........................      --            --             --            --            6,665,630      6,665,630
                                     -----------  -------------  ------------  -------------  -------------  -------------
Balance at March 31, 1995..........      --       $    --          10,820,800  $  26,353,637  $     640,721  $  26,994,358
Common stock issued upon exercise
 of warrants.......................      --            --             100,534        301,602       --              301,602
Common stock issued upon exercise
 of options........................      --            --           1,843,974      4,610,000       --            4,610,000
Common stock issued upon conversion
 of debt (note 11).................      --            --             533,334      2,000,000       --            2,000,000
Net income.........................      --            --             --            --            7,575,122      7,575,122
                                     -----------  -------------  ------------  -------------  -------------  -------------
Balance at December 31, 1995.......      --       $    --          13,298,642  $  33,265,239  $   8,215,843  $  41,481,082
Common stock issued upon exercise
 of warrants.......................      --            --              86,000        258,000       --              258,000
Common stock issued upon exercise
 of options........................      --            --             394,600      1,121,075       --            1,121,075
Net income.........................      --            --             --            --           14,097,376     14,097,376
                                     -----------  -------------  ------------  -------------  -------------  -------------
Balance at December 31, 1996.......      --       $    --          13,779,242  $  34,644,314  $  22,313,219  $  56,957,533
                                     -----------  -------------  ------------  -------------  -------------  -------------
                                     -----------  -------------  ------------  -------------  -------------  -------------
</TABLE>
 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
 
                                      F-4
<PAGE>
               CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     NINE MONTHS
                                                                      YEAR ENDED        ENDED
                                                                     DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,     YEAR ENDED
                                                                         1996            1995       MARCH 31, 1995
                                                                    --------------  --------------  --------------
<S>                                                                 <C>             <C>             <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Net income........................................................  $   14,097,376  $    7,575,122  $    6,665,630
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash used in operating
 activities:
  Depreciation and amortization...................................         275,348         174,555         153,355
  Amortization of purchased and excess servicing receivables......       6,119,219       2,023,938       1,210,120
  Amortization of deferred financing costs........................         157,208           5,265        --
  Provision for credit losses.....................................       2,755,803         828,458         532,947
  Gain on sale of contracts from excess servicing receivables.....     (18,665,429)     (7,977,828)     (4,065,899)
  Loss on investment in unconsolidated affiliate..................         595,352        --              --
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
    Purchases of contracts held for sale..........................    (351,350,070)   (160,150,781)   (164,263,577)
    Liquidation of contracts held for sale........................     346,486,336     156,890,700     142,472,028
    Servicing fees receivable.....................................      (1,631,487)       (658,385)       (615,063)
    Prepaid related party expenses................................        --              --               233,333
    Initial deposits to credit enhancement accounts...............     (12,270,168)     (4,931,325)    (13,237,454)
    Excess servicing deposited to credit enhancement accounts.....     (18,790,430)     (7,553,086)     (5,390,422)
    Release of cash from credit enhancement accounts..............      17,940,919       7,693,839       5,923,201
    Deferred taxes................................................       5,383,997       2,199,068        (381,616)
    Other assets..................................................      (3,361,654)       (425,695)          3,810
    Accounts payable and accrued expenses.........................         355,146        (131,382)        528,256
    Warehouse line of credit......................................       5,764,585     (12,230,389)     19,730,389
    Taxes payable/receivable......................................      (3,522,997)     (1,865,464)      4,385,724
                                                                    --------------  --------------  --------------
      Net cash used in operating activities.......................      (9,660,946)    (18,533,390)     (6,115,238)
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  Proceeds from sale of subordinated certificates                        2,022,220        --              --
  Investment in unconsolidated affiliate..........................      (4,277,407)       --              --
  Purchases of furniture and equipment............................        (356,587)       (263,496)       (334,458)
  Payments received on subordinated certificates..................         152,446         118,764        --
                                                                    --------------  --------------  --------------
      Net cash used in investing activities.......................      (2,459,328)       (144,732)       (334,458)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
  Issuance of promissory notes....................................        --             2,000,000       5,000,000
  Issuance of note to related party...............................        --             2,000,000        --
  Issuance of long term notes.....................................        --            20,000,000        --
  Payment of financing costs......................................        --            (1,105,695)       --
  Repayment of promissory notes...................................        --            (2,000,000)     (5,000,000)
  Repayment of note to related party..............................        --            (2,000,000)       --
  Issuance of common stock........................................        --              --            13,304,550
  Redemption of preferred stock...................................        --              --            (3,415,000)
  Exercise of options and warrants................................       1,379,075       4,911,602         238,398
                                                                    --------------  --------------  --------------
      Net cash provided by financing activities...................       1,379,075      23,805,907      10,127,948
                                                                    --------------  --------------  --------------
Increase (decrease) in cash.......................................     (10,741,199)      5,127,785       3,678,252
Cash at beginning of period.......................................      10,895,157       5,767,372       2,089,120
                                                                    --------------  --------------  --------------
Cash at end of period.............................................  $      153,958  $   10,895,157  $    5,767,372
                                                                    --------------  --------------  --------------
                                                                    --------------  --------------  --------------
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
  Cash paid during the period
    Interest......................................................  $    5,213,912  $    2,542,718  $    3,288,848
    Income taxes..................................................  $    6,679,000  $    4,759,050  $      523,000
Supplemental disclosure of non-cash investing and financing
 activities:
  Issuance of common stock upon conversion of debt................  $     --        $    2,000,000  $     --
  Investments in subordinated certificates........................  $     --        $    4,779,166  $     --
</TABLE>
 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
 
                                      F-5
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
    DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
 
    Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc. ("the Company") was incorporated in
California on March 8, 1991. The Company and its subsidiaries engage primarily
in the business of purchasing, selling and servicing retail automobile
installment sale contracts ("Contracts") originated by dealers located
throughout the United States. The Company specializes in Contracts with
borrowers who generally would not be expected to qualify for traditional
financing such as that provided by commercial banks or automobile manufacturers'
captive finance companies. The Company's operations are centralized in Irvine,
California and it has purchased Contracts from Dealers in California since its
inception. During the year ended December 31, 1996, Contract purchases relating
to borrowers who resided in California totaled 25.8% of all contract purchases.
Moreover, at December 31, 1996, borrowers who resided in California made up
58.0% of the Servicing Portfolio. A significant adverse change in the economic
climate in California could result in fewer Contracts available for sale and
potentially less gain on sale and servicing fee revenue.
 
    The automobile financing business is highly competitive. The Company
competes with a number of national, local and regional finance companies with
operations similar to those of the Company. In addition, competitors or
potential competitors include other types of financial services companies, such
as commercial banks, savings and loan associations, leasing companies, credit
unions providing retail loan financing and lease financing for new and used
vehicles, and captive finance companies affiliated with major automobile
manufacturers such as General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Ford Motor Credit
Corporation, Chrysler Credit Corporation and Nissan Motors Acceptance
Corporation. Many of the Company's competitors and potential competitors possess
substantially greater financial, marketing, technical, personnel and other
resources than the Company. Moreover, the Company's future profitability will be
directly related to the availability and cost of its capital in relation to the
availability and cost of capital to its competitors. The Company's competitors
and potential competitors include far larger, more established companies that
have access to capital markets for unsecured commercial paper and investment
grade-rated debt instruments and to other funding sources which may be
unavailable to the Company. Many of these companies also have long-standing
relationships with dealers and may provide other financing to dealers, including
floor plan financing for the dealers' purchase of automobiles from
manufacturers, which is not offered by the Company.
 
    The Company purchases Contracts with the intent to re-sell them to
institutional investors either as bulk sales or in the form of securities backed
by the Contracts. Purchasers of the Contracts receive a pass through rate of
interest set at the time of the sale and the Company receives a base servicing
fee for its duties relating to the accounting for and collection of the
Contracts. In addition, the Company is entitled to certain excess servicing fees
which represent collections on the Contracts in excess of those required to pay
investor principal and interest, base servicing fees and any other expenses of
the trust.
 
    PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
 
    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Consumer
Portfolio Services, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Alton Receivables
Corp. ("Alton") , CPS Receivables Corp. ("CPSRC") and CPS Funding Corp.
("CPSFC"). Alton, CPSRC and CPSFC are limited purpose corporations formed to
accommodate the structures under which the Company sells its Contracts. The
consolidated financial statements also include the accounts of SAMCO Acceptance
Corp. and LINC Acceptance Company, LLC,
 
                                      F-6
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
both of which are 80% owned subsidiaries formed by the Company in fiscal 1996.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation. Investments in unconsolidated affiliates which are not majority
owned are reported using the equity method. The excess of the cost of the stock
over the Company's share of the net assets at the acquisition date ("goodwill")
is being amortized over fifteen years.
 
    CONTRACTS HELD FOR SALE
 
    The Contracts which the Company purchases from dealers provide for finance
charges of approximately 20% per annum, in most cases. Each Contract provides
for full amortization, equal monthly payments and can be fully prepaid by the
borrower at any time without penalty. The Company typically purchases the
Contracts from dealers at a discount from the amount financed under the Contract
with such discounts deferred and recognized as revenue upon sale of the related
Contracts. Effective January 10, 1997, the Company began purchasing all
Contracts without a percentage discount, charging dealers only a flat
acquisition fee for each Contract purchased based on the perceived credit risk
and, in some cases, the interest rate on the Contract. Contracts are generally
sold to institutional investors at par. In the case of whole loan sales, the
investor withholds a portion of the purchase price as an initial credit
enhancement. In the case of Contracts sold in the form of asset backed
securities, the Company pledges certain cash balances as an initial credit
enhancement. Contracts are generally sold by the Company within one to three
months of their purchase, although they may be held longer.
 
    Contracts held for sale are stated at the lower of cost or market value.
Market value is determined by purchase commitments from investors and prevailing
market prices. Gains and losses are recorded as appropriate when Contracts are
sold.
 
    ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
    The Company provides an allowance for credit losses which management
believes provides adequately for current and possible future losses that may
develop in the Contracts held for sale. Management evaluates the adequacy of the
allowance by examining current delinquencies, the characteristics of the
portfolio, the value of underlying collateral, and general economic conditions
and trends.
 
    CONTRACT ACQUISITION FEES AND COSTS
 
    The Company generally receives an acquisition fee from the dealer for each
Contract purchased. Fee proceeds are used to offset the direct expenses
associated with the purchase of the Contracts, with any excess amount deferred
until the Contracts are sold at which time the deferred portions are recognized
as a component of the gain on sale.
 
    INVESTMENTS
 
    The Company determines the appropriate classification of its investments in
debt securities at the time of purchase or creation. Debt securities for which
the Company does not have the intent or ability to hold to maturity are
classified as available for sale. Securities available for sale are carried at
fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in a separate
component of shareholders' equity.
 
                                      F-7
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    The amortized cost of debt securities classified as available for sale is
adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, over the
estimated life of the security. Such amortization and interest earned on the
debt securities are included in interest income.
 
    GAIN ON SALE OF CONTRACTS
 
    Gains or losses are determined based upon the difference between the sales
proceeds for the portion of Contracts sold and the Company's recorded investment
in the Contracts sold. The Company allocates the recorded investment in the
Contracts between the portion of the Contracts sold and the portion retained
based on the relative fair values of those portions on the date of sale.
 
    EXCESS SERVICING RECEIVABLES
 
    Excess servicing receivables ("ESR") result from the sale of Contracts on
which the Company retains servicing rights and all, or a portion of, the excess
cash flows. ESRs are determined by computing the difference between the weighted
average yield of the Contracts sold and the yield to the purchaser, adjusted for
the normal servicing fee based on the agreements between the Company and the
purchaser. The resulting differential is recorded as a gain at the time of the
sale equal to the present value of the estimated cash flows, net of any portion
of the excess that may be due to the purchaser and adjusted for anticipated
prepayments, repossessions, liquidations and other losses. The excess servicing
cash flows over the estimated remaining life of the Contracts have been
calculated for all applicable periods using estimates for prepayments, losses
(charge-offs) and weighted average discount rates, which the Company expects
market participants would use for similar instruments. Losses are discounted at
an assumed risk free rate. The ESRs are amortized using the interest method and
are offset against servicing fees. To the extent that the actual future
performance of the Contracts results in less excess cash flows than the Company
estimated, the Company's ESRs will be adjusted at least quarterly, with
corresponding charges recorded against income in the period in which the
adjustment is made. To the extent that the actual cash flows exceed the
Company's estimates the Company will record additional servicing fees. Excess
servicing receivables are evaluated quarterly for impairment by reassessing the
discounted future estimated excess servicing fees, on individual securitized
pools, which consist predominantly of pools of Contracts purchased in the
quarter of each securitization. If the carrying value of the ESR is greater than
the future estimated ESR, a charge to earnings is made through a valuation
allowance.
 
    FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT
 
    Furniture and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation
which is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives of the assets. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the
estimated useful lives of the assets or the related lease term.
 
    SERVICING
 
    Servicing fees are reported as income when earned, net of related
amortization of purchased and excess servicing. Servicing costs are charged to
expense as incurred.
 
                                      F-8
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    NET INCOME PER SHARE
 
    The computation of net income per common and common equivalent share is
based upon the Treasury Stock Method using the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding during the period plus (in periods in which they have a
dilutive effect) the effect of common shares contingently issuable, primarily
from stock options and warrants. The fully diluted net income per share
computation reflects the effect of common shares contingently issuable upon the
conversion of convertible debt in which such conversion would cause dilution.
Fully diluted net income per common share also reflects additional dilution
related to stock options and warrants due to the use of the market price at the
end of the period, when higher than the average price for the period.
 
    INCOME TAXES
 
    The Company and its subsidiaries file a consolidated Federal income and
combined state franchise tax return on a fiscal year basis. The Company utilizes
the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes under which
deferred income taxes are recognized for the future tax consequences
attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to
taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to
be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred taxes of a change in tax rates
is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The
Company has accounted for income taxes in this manner since its inception.
 
    STOCK SPLIT
 
    On February 16, 1996, the Board of Directors authorized a two-for-one stock
split to be distributed on or about March 14, 1996, to shareholders of record on
March 7, 1996. All references in the consolidated financial statements to number
of shares, per share amounts and market prices of the Company's common stock
have been retroactively restated to reflect the increased number of common
shares outstanding.
 
    STOCK OPTION PLAN
 
    Prior to January 1, 1996, the Company accounted for its stock option plan in
accordance with the provisions of Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion
No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations.
As such, compensation expense would be recorded on the date of grant only if the
current market price of the underlying stock exceeded the exercise price. On
January 1, 1996, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation, which permits entities to recognize as expense over the vesting
period the fair value of all stock-based awards on the date of grant.
Alternatively, SFAS No. 123 also allows entities to continue to apply the
provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide pro forma net income and pro forma
earnings per share disclosures for employee stock option grants made in 1995 and
future years as if the fair-value-based methods defined in SFAS No. 123 had been
applied. The Company has elected to continue to apply the provisions of APB
Opinion No. 25 and to provide the pro forma disclosure provisions of SFAS No.
123.
 
                                      F-9
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS AND LONG-LIVED ASSETS TO BE DISPOSED OF
 
    The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of, on
January 1, 1996. This Statement requires that long-lived assets and certain
identifiable intangibles be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a
comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net cash flows expected
to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the
impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying
amount of the assets exceed the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed
of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to
sell. Adoption of this Statement did not have a material impact on the Company's
financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
 
    NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
 
    In June 1996, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 125,
Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments
of Liabilities. SFAS No. 125 is effective for transfers and servicing of
financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities occurring after December 31,
1996 and is to be applied prospectively. This Statement provides accounting and
reporting standards for transfers and servicing of financial assets and
extinguishments of liabilities based on consistent application of a
financial-components approach that focuses on control. It distinguishes
transfers of financial assets that are sales from transfers that are secured
borrowings. Management of the Company does not expect that adoption of SFAS No.
125 will have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of
operations or liquidity.
 
    USE OF ESTIMATES
 
    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the
date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of income and
expenses during the reported periods. Specifically, a number of estimates were
made in connection with the recording of the allowance for credit losses and
excess servicing receivables and the related gain. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.
 
    RECLASSIFICATION
 
    Certain amounts for the prior periods have been reclassified to conform to
the current presentation.
 
(2) INVESTMENTS
 
    The Company is a party to various agreements with institutional investors
and investment banks for the sale of the Company's Contracts. The agreements
call for the Company to sell Contracts to one of its special purpose corporation
subsidiaries, either Alton or CPSRC (the "SPCs"), which subsequently transfer
the Contracts to various grantor trusts (the "Trusts") which then issue interest
bearing certificates which are purchased by institutional investors. The terms
of the agreements provide that simultaneous with
 
                                      F-10
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(2) INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)
each purchase of certificates by the investor, the Company is required to
provide a credit enhancement in the form of a cash capital contribution to the
SPC equal to a specified percentage of the amount of the certificates purchased
by the investor. The SPC then deposits the initial cash, and subsequent excess
servicing cash flows as required by the terms of the various agreements, to an
account held by a trustee (the "Spread Account") and pledges the cash to the
Trust, which in turn invests the cash in high quality liquid investment
securities as defined by the various agreements. In the securitizations since
June 1995, the Company altered the credit enhancement mechanism to create a
subordinated class of asset-backed securities ("B Piece") in order to reduce the
size of the required initial deposit to the Spread Account. All of the B Pieces
through December 31, 1996, had an initial principal balance equal to 5% of the
aggregate principal balance of the asset-backed securities. As of December 31,
1996, all of the B Pieces have been sold except the B Piece related to the June
1995 securitization. In the event that the cash flows generated by the Contracts
transferred to the Trust are insufficient to pay obligations of the Trust,
including principal or interest due to certificateholders or expenses of the
Trust, the trustee will draw an amount necessary from the Spread Accounts to pay
the obligations of the Trust.
 
    The agreements provide that the Spread Accounts shall be maintained at a
specified percent of the principal balance of the certificates, which can be
increased in the event delinquencies and/or losses exceed certain specified
levels. In the event delinquencies and/or losses on the Contracts serviced
exceed specified levels defined in certain of the Company's securitization
agreements, the terms of those securitizations may require the transfer of
servicing to another servicer. Consequently, as principal payments are made to
the certificateholders, and if the Spread Accounts are in excess of the
specified percent of the principal balance of the certificates, the trustee
shall release to the SPC the portion of the pledged cash that is in excess of
the amount necessary to meet the specified percent of the principal balance of
the certificates. To the extent cash in excess of the predetermined level is
generated, such cash is either transferred to cover deficiencies, if any, in
Spread Accounts for other pools, or is released to the Company. Except for
releases in this manner, the cash in the Spread Accounts is restricted from use
by the SPC or the Company. Investments in credit enhancements were made up of
the following components:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,
                                                                               1996           1995
                                                                           -------------  -------------
<S>                                                                        <C>            <C>
Funds held by investor...................................................  $   1,263,660  $   2,211,363
Investment in subordinated certificates..................................      1,530,950      2,137,333
US government securities.................................................     40,802,862     26,129,097
                                                                           -------------  -------------
                                                                           $  43,597,472  $  30,477,793
                                                                           -------------  -------------
                                                                           -------------  -------------
</TABLE>
 
                                      F-11
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(3) FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT
 
    Furniture and equipment consists of the following:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,
                                                                                1996           1995
                                                                            -------------  ------------
<S>                                                                         <C>            <C>
Furniture and fixtures....................................................  $     759,783   $  629,613
Computer equipment........................................................        875,870      682,541
Leasehold improvements....................................................         91,700       65,103
                                                                            -------------  ------------
                                                                                1,727,353    1,377,257
  Less accumulated depreciation and amortization..........................     (1,097,579)    (828,722)
                                                                            -------------  ------------
                                                                            $     629,774   $  548,535
                                                                            -------------  ------------
                                                                            -------------  ------------
</TABLE>
 
(4) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
    Prior to December 11, 1995, the Company was a majority-owned subsidiary of
CPS Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Holdings"). In September 1995, the
shareholders of the Company approved the merger of Holdings into the Company.
The merger was completed on December 11, 1995, and had no effect on the
Company's consolidated financial statements. Prior to the merger, Charles E.
Bradley, Sr., the Company's Chairman of the Board, was the principal shareholder
of Holdings.
 
    The Company is a party to a consulting agreement with Stanwich Partners,
Inc. ("SPI") that call for monthly payments of $6,250 through December 31, 1998.
Included in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for the year
ended December 31, 1996, for the nine months ended December 31, 1995, and for
the year ended March 31, 1995, is $75,000, $262,500 and $350,000, respectively,
of consulting expense related to this consulting agreement. The Chairman of the
Board of Directors of the Company is a principal shareholder of SPI.
 
    During the year ended March 31, 1995, the Company advanced to Holdings
$714,494, pursuant to various notes which were to mature on or before July 1,
1995. As of March 31, 1995, all principal and interest under the notes had been
paid in full.
 
    On September 27, 1995, the Company borrowed $2 million through a promissory
note to Charles E. Bradley, Sr., Chairman of the Board of Directors. Interest
accrued at 11.5% and was payable on the maturity date, December 31, 1995, or
upon the exercise of an option by Holdings for the purchase of 1,800,000 shares
of the Company's common stock at $2.50 per share, whichever was earlier. On
December 6, 1995, Holdings exercised its option and the note was repaid in full.
 
    Included in other assets at December 31, 1996, is a receivable for
approximately $100,000 from SPI related to investment banking services performed
by the Company in connection with the Company's January 2, 1997 acquisition of
Stanwich Leasing, Inc. ("SLI") (see note 14).
 
    Investment in unconsolidated affiliate consists of a 38% interest in NAB
Asset Corporation ("NAB") that was acquired by the Company on June 6, 1996, for
approximately $4,300,000. At the time of the acquisition, NAB had approximately
$3.5 million in cash and no significant operations. The Company's investment in
NAB exceeded the Company's share of the net assets of NAB at the acquisition
date by approximately $1,418,000. This amount, which is included in other assets
in the accompanying balance
 
                                      F-12
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(4) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (CONTINUED)
sheet, has been recorded by the Company as goodwill. Based on the closing price
on the Nasdaq, the market value of the investment in NAB was approximately $7.5
million at December 31, 1996. Charles E. Bradley, Sr., Chairman of the Company's
Board of Directors and principal shareholder and Charles E. Bradley, Jr.,
President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Company's Board of
Directors are both on the Board of Directors of NAB.
 
    Subsequent to the Company's investment in NAB, NAB purchased Mortgage
Portfolio Services, Inc. ("MPS") from the Company for $300,000. MPS, formed by
the Company in April, 1996, is a mortgage broker-dealer based in Texas
specializing in "B" and "C" mortgages. In July 1996, NAB formed CARSUSA, Inc.
("CARSUSA"), which purchased, and now owns and operates, a Mitsubishi automobile
dealership in Southern California. Included in general and administrative
expenses for the year ended December 31, 1996, is $595,352, which represents the
Company's share of NAB's loss since June 6, 1996. Included in other assets at
December 31, 1996, are amounts due from NAB amounting to $1,098,000. Of this
amount, $800,000 relates to a flooring line of credit provided to CARSUSA and
the remainder relates to fees owed by MPS and CARSUSA for services rendered by
the Company in fiscal 1996.
 
    During fiscal 1996, the Company sold 69 automobiles to CARSUSA and received
proceeds of $458,650. Additionally, the Company purchased 39 contracts from
CARSUSA. The aggregate principal balance of the Contracts purchased was
$517,264.
 
(5) CONTRACTS HELD FOR SALE
 
    The balance of Contracts held for sale was made up of the following
components:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,
                                                                               1996           1995
                                                                           -------------  -------------
<S>                                                                        <C>            <C>
Gross receivable balance.................................................  $  28,095,461  $  24,584,472
Unearned finance charges.................................................     (5,268,107)    (3,820,267)
Dealer discounts.........................................................       (509,266)      (944,284)
Deferred loan origination costs (net of related fees)....................         61,774         59,077
Allowance for credit losses..............................................       (723,089)      (330,156)
                                                                           -------------  -------------
  Net contracts held for sale............................................  $  21,656,773  $  19,548,842
                                                                           -------------  -------------
                                                                           -------------  -------------
</TABLE>
 
    Activity in the allowance for credit losses consisted of the following:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                               NINE MONTHS
                                                                YEAR ENDED        ENDED      YEAR ENDED
                                                               DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,    MARCH 31,
                                                                   1996           1995          1995
                                                               -------------  -------------  -----------
<S>                                                            <C>            <C>            <C>
Balance, beginning of period.................................  $     330,156  $     323,631  $    50,169
Provisions...................................................      2,755,803        828,458      532,947
Charge-offs..................................................     (2,755,303)    (1,076,982)    (386,408)
Recoveries...................................................        392,433        255,049      126,923
                                                               -------------  -------------  -----------
  Balance, end of period.....................................  $     723,089  $     330,156  $   323,631
                                                               -------------  -------------  -----------
                                                               -------------  -------------  -----------
</TABLE>
 
                                      F-13
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
    The Company is required to represent and warrant certain matters with
respect to the Contracts sold to the investors, which generally duplicate the
substance of the representations and warranties made by the dealers in
connection with the Company's purchase of the Contracts. In the event of a
breach by the Company of any representation or warranty, the Company is
obligated to repurchase the Contracts from the investors at a price equal to the
investors' purchase price less the related credit enhancement and any principal
payments received from the borrower. In most cases, the Company would then be
entitled under the terms of its agreements with its dealers to require the
selling dealer to repurchase the Contracts at the Company's purchase price less
any principal payments received from the borrower.
 
    As of December 31, 1996, December 31, 1995, and March 31, 1995, the Company
had commitments to purchase $1,109,595, $910,325, and $706,720, respectively of
Contracts from Dealers in the ordinary course of business.
 
(6) SERVICING
 
    Servicing fees are reported as income when earned, net of related
amortization of purchased and excess servicing. Servicing costs are charged to
expense as incurred. Servicing fees included the following components:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             NINE MONTHS
                                                              YEAR ENDED        ENDED       YEAR ENDED
                                                             DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,     MARCH 31,
                                                                 1996           1995           1995
                                                             -------------  -------------  -------------
<S>                                                          <C>            <C>            <C>
Gross loan servicing fees..................................  $  22,288,086  $   8,499,343  $   8,411,182
Amortization of purchased servicing........................       --             --               (4,849)
Amortization of excess servicing...........................     (6,119,219)    (2,023,938)    (1,205,271)
                                                             -------------  -------------  -------------
  Net Servicing fees.......................................  $  16,168,867  $   6,475,405  $   7,201,062
                                                             -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                             -------------  -------------  -------------
</TABLE>
 
    The Company services Contracts and loans to borrowers residing in
approximately 49 states, with the largest concentrations of loans in California,
Florida, Pennsylvania and Texas. Servicing balances were made up of the
following components:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                        ------------------------------
                                                             1996            1995       MARCH 31, 1995
                                                        --------------  --------------  --------------
<S>                                                     <C>             <C>             <C>
Contracts held for sale...............................  $   22,827,354  $   20,764,205  $   23,469,223
Servicing subject to recourse provisions:
  Whole loan portfolios...............................      11,212,010      21,213,050      29,754,103
  Alton Receivables Corp..............................      10,240,973      22,732,021      35,324,463
  CPS Receivables Corp................................     461,653,273     224,218,079     104,252,042
                                                        --------------  --------------  --------------
                                                        $  505,933,610  $  288,927,355  $  192,799,831
                                                        --------------  --------------  --------------
                                                        --------------  --------------  --------------
</TABLE>
 
                                      F-14
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(7) EXCESS SERVICING RECEIVABLES
 
    The following table summarizes ESR activity:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             NINE MONTHS
                                                              YEAR ENDED        ENDED       YEAR ENDED
                                                             DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,     MARCH 31,
                                                                 1996           1995           1995
                                                             -------------  -------------  -------------
<S>                                                          <C>            <C>            <C>
Balance, beginning of period...............................  $  11,108,251  $   5,154,361  $   2,293,733
ESR gains recognized.......................................     18,665,429      7,977,828      4,065,899
Amortization of ESR........................................     (6,119,219)    (2,023,938)    (1,205,271)
                                                             -------------  -------------  -------------
  Balance, end of period...................................  $  23,654,461  $  11,108,251  $   5,154,361
                                                             -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                             -------------  -------------  -------------
</TABLE>
 
    ESR balances were made up of the following components:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              DECEMBER 31, 1996
                                                        ------------------------------
                                                             1996            1995       MARCH 31, 1995
                                                        --------------  --------------  --------------
<S>                                                     <C>             <C>             <C>
Present value of future cash flows....................  $   70,339,711  $   34,538,442  $   19,551,370
Discounted allowance for credit losses................    (46,685,250)    (23,430,191)    (14,397,009)
                                                        --------------  --------------  --------------
  Net ESR balance.....................................  $   23,654,461  $   11,108,251  $    5,154,361
                                                        --------------  --------------  --------------
                                                        --------------  --------------  --------------
  Servicing subject to recourse provisions............  $  483,106,256  $  268,163,150  $  169,330,608
                                                        --------------  --------------  --------------
                                                        --------------  --------------  --------------
Discounted allowance as percentage of servicing
  subject to recourse provisions......................            9.66%           8.74%           8.50%
                                                        --------------  --------------  --------------
                                                        --------------  --------------  --------------
</TABLE>
 
    Net gain on sale on Contracts was made up of the following components:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            NINE MONTHS
                                                             YEAR ENDED        ENDED       YEAR ENDED
                                                            DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,     MARCH 31,
                                                                1996           1995           1995
                                                            -------------  -------------  -------------
<S>                                                         <C>            <C>            <C>
Dealer discount...........................................  $   8,271,777  $   5,573,371  $   6,750,955
ESR gains recognized......................................     18,665,429      7,977,828      4,065,899
Deferred acquisition fees (expenses)......................     (1,381,436)      (528,870)       647,766
Expenses related to sales.................................     (2,234,755)    (1,472,916)    (2,010,000)
                                                            -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                            $  23,321,015  $  11,549,413  $   9,454,620
                                                            -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                            -------------  -------------  -------------
</TABLE>
 
(8) SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
    PREFERRED STOCK
 
    The holders of the Series A Preferred Stock were entitled to receive
non-cumulative annual dividends equal to 6% of par value, payable quarterly in
cash (or, at the option of the Company, in-kind in additional shares of Series A
Preferred Stock), when and as declared by the Board of Directors, after the
Company's cumulative net income from the date of the Company's initial public
offering reached $5,000,000. No dividends or other distributions may be made
with respect to the common stock until accrued dividends
 
                                      F-15
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(8) SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)
have been declared and paid (or reserved for payment) on the Series A Preferred
Stock. Upon liquidation, the Series A Preferred Stock is entitled to receive, in
preference to any payment on the common stock, an amount equal to par value plus
any accrued and unpaid dividends. After March 31, 1994, the Series A Preferred
Stock was subject to redemption at the option of the Company at a price of $1.00
per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends. On March 15, 1995, the Company
redeemed, for an aggregate price of $3.4 million, all of the outstanding Series
A Preferred Stock with proceeds from the March 7, 1995, public offering of
2,000,000 shares of its common stock.
 
    COMMON STOCK
 
    On March 7, 1995, the Company completed a second public offering of
2,000,000 shares of its common stock. Net of related offering expenses of
$1,445,450, the Company raised $13,304,550 in this offering.
 
    Holders of the common stock are entitled to such dividends as the Company's
Board of Directors, in its discretion, may declare out of funds available,
subject to the terms of any outstanding shares of preferred stock and other
restrictions. In the event of liquidation of the Company, holders of common
stock are entitled to receive, pro rata, all of the assets of the Company
available for distribution, after payment of any liquidation preference to the
holders of outstanding shares of preferred stock. Holders of the shares of
common stock have no conversion or preemptive or other subscription rights and
there are no redemption or sinking fund provisions applicable to the common
stock.
 
    OPTIONS AND WARRANTS
 
    In 1991, the Company adopted and gained sole shareholder approval of the
1991 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") pursuant to which the Company's Board of
Directors may grant stock options to officers and key employees. The Plan, as
amended, authorizes grants of options to purchase up to 2,700,000 shares of
authorized but unissued common stock. Stock options are granted with an exercise
price equal to the stock's fair market value at the date of grant. Stock options
have terms that range from 7 to 10 years and vest over a range of 0 to 7 years.
In addition to the Plan, in fiscal 1995, the Company granted 60,000 options to
certain directors of the Company that vest over three years and expire nine
years from the grant date.
 
    At December 31, 1996, there were 97,000 additional shares available for
grant under the Plan. Of the options outstanding at December 31, 1996 and 1995
and March 31, 1995, 1,319,420, 1,296,786 and 1,191,872 were exercisable with
weighted-average exercise prices of $4.02, $2.71 and $2.62, respectively. The
per share weighted-average fair value of stock options granted during the year
ended December 31,
 
                                      F-16
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(8) SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)
1996 and the nine months ended December 31, 1995 was $4.99 and $4.17 at the date
of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
weighted average assumptions:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                               YEAR ENDED       NINE MONTHS
                                                                              DECEMBER 31,    ENDED DECEMBER
                                                                                  1996           31, 1995
                                                                             ---------------  ---------------
<S>                                                                          <C>              <C>
Expected life (years)......................................................          5.86             6.33
Risk-free interest rate....................................................          6.23%            6.80%
Volatility.................................................................         46.20%           46.20%
Expected dividend yield....................................................        --               --
</TABLE>
 
    The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 in accounting for its plans and,
accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for its stock options in
the consolidated financial statements. Had the Company determined compensation
cost based on the fair value at the grant date for its stock options under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based
Compensation", the Company's net income and net income per share would have been
reduced to the pro forma amounts indicted below.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                           NINE MONTHS
                                                                             YEAR ENDED       ENDED
                                                                            DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,
                                                                                1996           1995
                                                                            -------------  ------------
<S>                                                                         <C>            <C>
Net income
  As reported.............................................................  $  14,097,376   $7,575,122
  Pro forma...............................................................     13,550,000    7,505,000
 
Net income per share
  As reported.............................................................  $        0.95   $     0.53
  Pro forma...............................................................  $        0.92   $     0.53
 
Net income per fully-diluted share
  As reported.............................................................  $        0.93   $     0.52
  Pro forma...............................................................  $        0.90   $     0.52
</TABLE>
 
    Pro forma net income and net income per share reflects only options granted
in the year ended December 31, 1996 and the nine months ended December 31, 1995.
Therefore, the full impact of calculating compensation cost for stock options
under SFAS No. 123 is not reflected in the pro forma net income amounts
presented above because compensation cost is reflected over the options' vesting
period and compensation cost for options granted prior to January 1, 1995 is not
considered.
 
                                      F-17
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(8) SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)
    Stock options activity during the periods indicated is as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           NUMBER OF   WEIGHTED-AVERAGE
                                                                             SHARES     EXERCISE PRICE
                                                                           ----------  ----------------
<S>                                                                        <C>         <C>
Balance at March 31, 1994................................................   1,677,840    $       2.63
  Granted................................................................     415,200            5.54
  Exercised..............................................................      48,000            2.50
  Canceled...............................................................      --             --
                                                                           ----------  ----------------
Balance at March 31, 1995................................................   2,045,040            3.23
  Granted................................................................     159,360            7.61
  Exercised..............................................................      44,000            2.50
  Canceled...............................................................      --             --
                                                                           ----------  ----------------
Balance at December 31, 1995.............................................   2,160,400            3.56
  Granted................................................................     513,400            9.60
  Exercised..............................................................     394,600            2.82
  Canceled...............................................................     124,800            5.23
                                                                           ----------  ----------------
Balance at December 31, 1996.............................................   2,154,400    $       5.04
                                                                           ----------  ----------------
                                                                           ----------  ----------------
</TABLE>
 
    At December 31, 1996, the range of exercise prices, the number,
weighted-average exercise price and weighted-average remaining term of options
outstanding and the number and weighted-average price of options currently
exercisable are as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     WEIGHTED-     WEIGHTED                  WEIGHTED-
                                                                      AVERAGE       AVERAGE                   AVERAGE
                                                        NUMBER       REMAINING     EXERCISE      NUMBER      EXERCISE
RANGE OF EXERCISE PRICES                              OUTSTANDING      TERM          PRICE     EXERCISABLE     PRICE
- ----------------------------------------------------  -----------  -------------  -----------  -----------  -----------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>            <C>          <C>          <C>
$ 2.50--$ 2.50......................................     874,920          1.80     $    2.50      874,920    $    2.50
$ 2.69--$ 2.69......................................     228,920          4.96     $    2.89       91,840    $    2.69
$ 4.38--$ 4.38......................................      70,000          7.25     $    4.38       34,000    $    4.38
$ 5.38--$ 5.38......................................     301,200          7.25     $    5.38       27,200    $    5.38
$ 6.78--$ 8.38......................................     201,760          8.09     $    7.42       57,700    $    7.41
$ 8.63--$ 8.63......................................      15,000          9.53     $    8.63        3,000    $    8.63
$ 8.88--$ 8.88......................................     326,400          9.25     $    8.88      205,760    $    8.88
$11.00--$11.00......................................      15,200          7.83     $   11.00       --           --
$12.00--$12.00......................................     119,000          9.82     $   12.00       23,800    $   12.00
$12.13--$12.13......................................       2,000          9.83     $   12.13          400    $   12.13
</TABLE>
 
    In connection with the Company's initial public offering, the Company sold
to the underwriter of the offering, for an aggregate price of $120, warrants to
purchase up to 240,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price
of $3.00 per share. The warrants are exercisable during the four year period
commencing one year from the date of the offering. The shares represented by the
warrants have been registered for public sale. During the year ended December
31, 1996, the nine months ended
 
                                      F-18
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(8) SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)
December 31, 1995, and the year ended March 31, 1995, the underwriter exercised
86,000, 100,534, and 39,466 warrants, respectively, leaving a balance of 14,000
at December 31, 1996.
 
(9) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
    LEASES
 
    The Company leases its facilities and certain computer equipment under
non-cancelable operating leases which expire through 2007. Future minimum lease
payments at December 31, 1996, under these leases are as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<S>                                                                       <C>
1997....................................................................  $ 989,333
1998....................................................................    874,539
1999....................................................................    794,019
2000....................................................................    670,497
2001....................................................................     87,433
                                                                          ---------
                                                                          $3,415,821
                                                                          ---------
                                                                          ---------
</TABLE>
 
    Subsequent to December 31, 1996, the Company entered into a building lease
for a new collection facility in Chesapeake, Virginia. The lease calls for 126
monthly payments of $21,722 for total minimum lease payments of $2,736,993.
 
    Rent expense for the year ended December 31, 1996, the nine months ended
December 31, 1995, and the year ended March 31, 1995, was $463,592, $186,483 and
$219,835, respectively. The Company's facility lease contains certain rental
concessions and escalating rental payments which are recognized as adjustments
to rental expense and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of
the lease.
 
    LITIGATION
 
    The Company is subject to lawsuits which arise in the ordinary course of its
business. Management is of the opinion, based in part upon consultation with its
counsel, that the liability of the Company, if any, arising from existing and
threatened lawsuits would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial position and results of operations.
 
                                      F-19
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(10) INCOME TAXES
 
    Income taxes are comprised of the following:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             NINE MONTHS
                                                                YEAR ENDED      ENDED       YEAR ENDED
                                                               DECEMBER 31,  DECEMBER 31,   MARCH 31,
                                                                   1996          1995          1995
                                                               ------------  ------------  ------------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>           <C>
Current
  Federal....................................................   $3,060,164    $2,156,799   $  3,718,390
  State......................................................    1,150,859       726,319      1,144,158
                                                               ------------  ------------  ------------
                                                                 4,211,023     2,883,118      4,862,548
Deferred
  Federal....................................................    4,565,383     1,683,960       (353,739)
  State......................................................      818,614       515,108        (27,877)
                                                               ------------  ------------  ------------
                                                                 5,383,997     2,199,068       (381,616)
                                                               ------------  ------------  ------------
    Total tax expense........................................   $9,595,020    $5,082,186   $  4,480,932
                                                               ------------  ------------  ------------
                                                               ------------  ------------  ------------
</TABLE>
 
    The Company's effective tax expense differs from the amount determined by
applying the statutory Federal rate of 35% for the year ended December 31, 1996,
and for the nine months ended December 31, 1995, and the year ended March 31,
1995, to income before income taxes as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             NINE MONTHS
                                                                YEAR ENDED      ENDED       YEAR ENDED
                                                               DECEMBER 31,  DECEMBER 31,   MARCH 31,
                                                                   1996          1995          1995
                                                               ------------  ------------  ------------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>           <C>
Expense at Federal tax rate..................................   $8,292,338    $4,430,058   $  3,901,297
California franchise tax, net of.............................    1,280,157
Federal income tax benefit...................................                    737,192        727,267
Other........................................................       22,525       (85,064)      (147,632)
                                                               ------------  ------------  ------------
                                                                $9,595,020    $5,082,186   $  4,480,932
                                                               ------------  ------------  ------------
                                                               ------------  ------------  ------------
</TABLE>
 
                                      F-20
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(10) INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    The tax effected cumulative temporary differences that give rise to deferred
tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 1996, and December 31, 1995, are
as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             DECEMBER 31,  DECEMBER 31,
                                                                                 1996          1995
                                                                             ------------  ------------
<S>                                                                          <C>           <C>
Deferred Tax Assets:
  Accrued Liabilities......................................................   $   13,670    $   77,716
  Furniture and equipment..................................................       23,095        52,938
  Provision for credit losses..............................................      301,357        33,727
  State taxes..............................................................      508,219       489,856
                                                                             ------------  ------------
                                                                                 846,341       654,237
Valuation allowance........................................................       --            --
                                                                             ------------  ------------
                                                                                 846,341       654,237
Deferred Tax Liabilities--
  Excess servicing receivables.............................................    7,873,592     2,297,491
                                                                             ------------  ------------
    Net deferred tax liability.............................................   $7,027,251    $1,643,254
                                                                             ------------  ------------
                                                                             ------------  ------------
</TABLE>
 
    In determining the possible future realization of deferred tax assets,
future taxable income from the following sources are taken into account: (a) the
reversal of taxable temporary differences, (b) future operations exclusive of
reversing temporary differences and (c) tax planning strategies that, if
necessary, would be implemented to accelerate taxable income into years in which
net operating losses might otherwise expire.
 
    The Company believes that the deferred tax asset will more likely than not
be realized due to the reversal of the deferred tax liability and expected
future taxable income.
 
(11) DEBT
 
    In June 1995, the Company entered into two warehouse line of credit
agreements (collectively the "Line"). The Line provides the Company with an
interim financing facility to hold Contracts for sale in greater numbers and for
longer periods of time prior to their sale to other institutional investors. The
primary agreement provides for loans by Redwood Receivables Corporation
("Redwood") to the Company, to be funded by commercial paper issued by Redwood
and secured by Contracts pledged periodically by the Company. The Redwood
facility provides for a maximum of $100.0 million of advances to the Company,
with interest at a variable rate tied to prevailing commercial paper rates
(6.99% at December 31, 1996). When the Company wishes to securitize these
Contracts, a substantial part of the proceeds received from investors is paid to
Redwood, which simultaneously releases the pledged Contracts for transfer to a
pass-through securitization trust.
 
    The second agreement is a standby line of credit with General Electric
Capital Corporation ("GECC"), also with a $100.0 million maximum, which the
Company may use only if and to the extent that Redwood does not provide funding
as described above. The GECC line is secured by Contracts and substantially all
the other assets of the Company. Both agreements extend through November 30,
1998.
 
                                      F-21
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(11) DEBT (CONTINUED)
    The two agreements are viewed as a single short-term warehouse line of
credit, with advances varying according to the amount of pledged Contracts. The
Company is charged a non-utilization fee of .25% per annum on the unused portion
of the Line.
 
    In December 1996, the Company entered into a overdraft financing facility
with, a bank that provides for maximum borrowings of $2.0 million. Interest is
charged on the outstanding balance at the bank's reference rate (8.25% at
December 31, 1996) plus 1.75%. There were no borrowings outstanding under this
facility at December 31, 1996. The facility expires on June 1, 1998. Both the
Line and the overdraft financing facility contain various restrictive and
financial covenants that the Company was in compliance with at December 31,
1996.
 
    On December 20, 1995, the Company issued $20.0 million in rising interest
subordinated redeemable securities due January 1, 2006 (the "Notes"). The Notes
are unsecured general obligations of the Company. Interest on the Notes is
payable on the first day of each month, commencing February 1, 1996, at an
interest rate of 10.0% per annum. The interest rate increases 0.25% on each
January 1 for the first nine years and 0.50% in the last year. In connection
with the issuance of the Notes, the Company incurred and capitalized issuance
costs of $1,105,695. The Company recognizes interest and amortization expense
related to the Notes using a method which approximates the effective interest
method over the expected redemption period. The Notes are subordinated to
certain existing and future indebtedness of the Company as defined in the
indenture agreement. The Company is required to redeem, subject to certain
adjustments, $1.0 million of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes through
the operation of a sinking fund on each of January 1, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003,
2004 and 2005. The Notes are not redeemable at the option of the Company prior
to January 1, 1998. The Company may at its option elect to redeem the Notes from
the registered holders of the Notes, in whole or in part, at any time, on or
after January 1, 1998, and prior to January 1, 1999, at 102% of their principal
amount, on or after January 1, 1999, and prior to January 1, 2000, at 101% of
their principal amount, and on or after January 1, 2000, at 100% of their
principal amount, in each case plus accrued interest to and including the date
of redemption.
 
    On March 12, 1993, the Company issued a $2 million five year convertible
subordinated note ("Note 1") to an institutional investor in conjunction with an
agreement by that investor to commit to purchase up to $50 million of the
Company's Contracts. Interest accrued at 11% and was payable semi-annually. On
July 5, 1995, the holder converted Note 1 to 533,334 shares of the Company's
common stock. On November 16, 1993, the Company issued a $3 million five year
convertible subordinated note ("Note 2") to the same institutional investor in
conjunction with an agreement by that investor to commit to purchase an
additional $50 million of the Company's Contracts. Interest accrued at 9.5% and
was payable semi-annually. On January 17, 1997, the holder converted Note 2 into
480,000 shares of the Company's common stock.
 
    On May 15, 1994, the Company issued a promissory note in the amount of $2.0
million to the same institutional investor who held Note 2. On October 25, 1994,
the Company borrowed an additional $3.0 million under two new promissory notes
from two different institutional investors. These promissory notes bore interest
at 400 basis points over the Citibank Base Rate and matured on February 28,
1995, with provisions for extensions to April 30, 1995, at the option of the
Company. The Company repaid each of these notes with the proceeds from its March
7, 1995, public common stock offering.
 
                                      F-22
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(11) DEBT (CONTINUED)
    On July 6, 1995, the Company issued a promissory note in the amount of $2.0
million to the same institutional investor who held Note 2. The note bore
interest at 200 basis points over the Citibank Base Rate and matured on December
31, 1995. On December 6, 1995, this note was repaid in full.
 
(12) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
    The Company sponsors a pretax savings and profit sharing plan (the "401(K)
Plan") under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the 401(K) Plan,
eligible employees are able to contribute up to 15% of their compensation
(subject to stricter limitation in the case of highly compensated employees).
The Company matches 40% of employees' contributions up to $500 per employee per
calendar year. The Company's contribution to the 401(K) Plan was $63,801,
$13,811, and $16,245 for the year ended December 31, 1996, for the nine months
ended December 31, 1995, and for the year ended March 31, 1995, respectively.
 
(13) FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
    The following summary presents a description of the methodologies and
assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the Company's financial
instruments. Much of the information used to determine fair value is highly
subjective. When applicable, readily available market information has been
utilized. However, for a significant portion of the Company's financial
instruments, active market values do not exist. Therefore, considerable
judgments were required in estimating fair value for certain items. The
subjective factors include, among other things, the estimated timing and amount
of cash flows, risk characteristics, credit quality and interest rates, all of
which are subject to change. Since the fair value is estimated as of December
31, 1996, the amounts that will actually be realized or paid at settlement or
maturity of the instruments could be significantly different. The estimated fair
values of financial assets and liabilities at December 31, 1996, were as
follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             DECEMBER 31,
                                                      ----------------------------------------------------------
                                                                  1996                          1995
                                                      ----------------------------  ----------------------------
                                                        CARRYING         FAIR         CARRYING         FAIR
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT                                      VALUE          VALUE          VALUE          VALUE
- ----------------------------------------------------  -------------  -------------  -------------  -------------
<S>                                                   <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Cash................................................  $     153,958  $     153,958  $  10,895,157  $  10,895,157
Contracts held for sale.............................     21,656,773     22,800,000     19,548,842     20,700,000
Investment in subordinated certificates.............       --             --            2,174,666      2,174,666
Investment in credit enhancements...................     43,597,472     43,597,472     30,477,793     30,477,793
Excess servicing receivable.........................     23,654,461     23,654,461     11,108,251     11,108,251
Warehouse line of credit............................     13,264,585     13,264,585      7,500,000      7,500,000
Notes payable.......................................     20,000,000     20,000,000     20,000,000     20,000,000
Convertible subordinated debt.......................  $   3,000,000  $   3,000,000  $   3,000,000  $   3,000,000
</TABLE>
 
    CASH
 
    The carrying value equals fair value.
 
                                      F-23
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(13) FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
    CONTRACTS HELD FOR SALE
 
    The fair value of the Company's contracts held for sale is determined in the
aggregate based upon current investor yield requirements and by discounting the
future cash flows using the current credit and discount rates that the Company
believes reflect the estimated credit, interest rate and prepayment risks
associated with similar types of instruments.
 
    INVESTMENTS IN SUBORDINATED CERTIFICATES
 
    The fair value is estimated by discounting future cash flows using credit
and discount rates that the Company believes reflect the estimated credit,
interest rate and prepayment risks associated with similar types of instruments.
 
    INVESTMENTS IN CREDIT ENHANCEMENTS
 
    The fair value is estimated by discounting future cash flows using credit
and discount rates that the Company believes reflect the estimated credit,
interest rate and prepayment risks associated with similar types of instruments.
 
    EXCESS SERVICING RECEIVABLES
 
    The fair value is estimated by discounting future cash flows using credit
and discount rates that the Company believes reflect the estimated credit,
interest rate and prepayment risks associated with similar types of instruments.
 
    WAREHOUSE LINE OF CREDIT
 
    The carrying value approximates fair value because the warehouse line of
credit is short-term in nature and the related interest rates are estimated to
reflect current market conditions for similar types of instruments.
 
    NOTES PAYABLE
 
    The fair value is estimated based on quoted market prices and on current
rates for similar debt with similar remaining maturities.
 
    CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBT
 
    The carrying value approximates fair value because the related interest
rates are estimated to reflect current market conditions for similar types of
instruments.
 
(14) SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
    In January 1997, the Company purchased 80% of the outstanding stock of SLI
from Charles E. Bradley, Sr., Chairman of the Board of Directors and principal
shareholder, and John G. Poole, a director of the Company, for a purchase price
of $100,000. The transaction was considered and approved by the independent
members of the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
                                      F-24
<PAGE>
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, NINE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND
                           YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1995
 
(14) SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (CONTINUED)
    In February 1997, the Company filed a Form S-3 Registration Statement with
the Securities and Exchange Commission to sell approximately $35 million in
unsecured Participating Equity Notes due in 2004. Twenty-five percent of each
note is convertible into common stock of the Company at maturity or in
connection with redemption. The notes will be subordinate to all existing and
future senior indebtedness.
 
(15) SELECTED QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    QUARTER ENDED   QUARTER ENDED   QUARTER ENDED   QUARTER ENDED
                                                      MARCH 31,        JUNE 30,     SEPTEMBER 30,    DECEMBER 31,
                                                    --------------  --------------  --------------  --------------
 
<S>                                                 <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>
1996
  Revenues........................................   $  9,907,581    $ 12,485,185    $ 13,758,526    $ 15,042,511
  Income before income taxes......................      5,101,297       5,517,249       6,451,297       6,622,553
  Net income......................................      3,051,297       3,271,229       3,834,297       3,940,553
  Net income per common and common equivalent
    share.........................................           0.21            0.22            0.26            0.26
  Fully diluted net income per common and common
    equivalent share..............................           0.20            0.22            0.25            0.26
 
1995
  Revenues........................................   $  6,518,853    $  8,089,304    $  7,852,191    $  8,313,218
  Income before income taxes......................      3,376,694       4,075,286       4,175,663       4,406,359
  Net income......................................      2,019,189       2,342,207       2,532,645       2,700,270
  Net income per common and common equivalent
    share.........................................           0.18            0.18            0.18            0.18
  Fully diluted net income per common and common
    equivalent share..............................           0.18            0.16            0.18            0.18
</TABLE>
 
                                      F-25
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
