-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 HLayFfzMUGtqdvid+fso8sTvJw6NCBMnecCyzUpYFrnZlg2SCEhyR5U60VrHaz+H
 cajQBQyH64L32wyGs8Nyaw==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001017062-98-000499.txt : 19980311
<SEC-HEADER>0001017062-98-000499.hdr.sgml : 19980311
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001017062-98-000499
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19971231
FILED AS OF DATE:		19980310
SROS:			NASD
SROS:			NYSE

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000889609
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SHORT-TERM BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS [6153]
		IRS NUMBER:				330459135
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14116
		FILM NUMBER:		98560704

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2 ADA STE 100
		CITY:			IRVINE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			92618
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7147536800
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>ANNUAL REPORT FOR PERIOD ENDING 12/31/1997
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

================================================================================
                                UNITED STATES 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                  FORM 10-K

[X]  Annual Report Under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
     Act of 1934

     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997

[_]  Transition Report Under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
     Act of 1934

                        Commission File Number: 1-14116

                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                  California                     33-0459135
         (State or other jurisdiction of      (I.R.S. Employer
          incorporation or organization)     Identification No.)

           2 Ada, Irvine, California                92618
        (Address of principal executive          (Zip Code)
                  offices)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (714) 753-6800

          Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act:
   Title of each class:  Rising Interest Subordinated Redeemable Securities 
                                   due 2006
                   10.50% Participating Equity Notes due 2004
      Name of each exchange on which registered:  New York Stock Exchange

 Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act:  Common stock, no
                                   par value

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act during the past 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such
reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.  Yes [x]  No [_]

Indicate by check mark if there is no disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [_]

The aggregate market value on March 4, 1998 (based on the $10.875 closing price
on the Nasdaq Stock Market on that date) of the voting stock beneficially held
by non-affiliates of the registrant was $93,083,236.  The number of shares of
the registrant's Common Stock outstanding on March 4, 1998 was 15,210,042.

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference

The registrant's proxy statement for its 1998 annual meeting of shareholders is
incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.

================================================================================
<PAGE>
 
                                     PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

General

   Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc., ("CPS", and together with its
subsidiaries, the "Company") is a consumer finance company specializing in the
business of purchasing, selling and servicing retail automobile installment
contracts ("Contracts") originated by dealers ("Dealers") in the sale of new and
used automobiles, light trucks and passenger vans.  Through its purchases, the
Company provides indirect financing to borrowers with limited credit histories,
low incomes or past credit problems ("Sub-Prime Borrowers").  The Company serves
as an alternative source of financing for Dealers, allowing sales to customers
who otherwise might not be able to obtain financing from more traditional
sources of automobile financing such as banks, credit unions or finance
companies affiliated with major automobile manufacturers.

History

   The Company was incorporated in March 1991 as a wholly owned subsidiary of
CPS Holdings, Inc. ("Holdings") (formerly known as FWB Acceptance Corp.).
Holdings was formed in April 1990 by Charles E. Bradley, Sr., the Chairman of
the Board of the Company, in order to enter into the automobile financing
business.  Mr. Bradley believed that the Sub-Prime Borrower segment of this
business had the potential for growth and profit due in part to the withdrawal
from such business by many savings and loan associations and other financial
institutions.  In December 1995, Holdings was merged with and into the Company.

   The period from March 8, 1991 (the Company's inception) through May 1991 was
devoted to the start-up of the Company's operations.  On May 31, 1991, the
Company first acquired certain third-party loan servicing contracts and in June
1991 began earning servicing fee income.  The Company thereafter added to its
third-party loan servicing portfolio and, in October 1991, began acquiring
Contracts and selling them to General Electric Capital Corporation ("GECC").  To
date, the Company has sold $42.6 million in Contracts to GECC and an additional
$100.1 million to Sun Life Insurance Company of America ("Sun Life"). Since June
1994, the Company has issued an additional $1.1 billion of "AAA"-rated and $50.9
million of "BB"-rated certificates backed by Contracts to various institutional
investors. Since June 1996, all sales of "AAA"-rated certificates have been made
in public offerings pursuant to registration statements filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. See "Servicing of Contracts," "Purchase and
Sale of Contracts" and "Securitization and Sale of Contracts to Institutional
Investors."

Automobile Financing Industry

   Automobile financing is a major component of consumer installment debt in the
United States.  Most traditional sources of automobile financing, such as
commercial banks, credit unions and captive finance companies affiliated with
major automobile manufacturers, generally provide automobile financing for the
most creditworthy, or so-called "prime" borrowers.  The Company believes that
the strong credit performance and large size of the market have led to intense
price competition in the financing market for prime borrowers, and, in turn, low
profit margins, effectively limiting this market to only the largest
participants.  In addition, special low-rate financing programs offered by
automobile manufacturers' captive finance companies to promote the sale of
specific automobiles have added to the competition within the prime borrower
market.

   Although prime borrowers represent the largest segment of the automobile
financing market, there are many potential purchasers of automobiles who do not
qualify as prime borrowers.  Purchasers considered by the Company to be Sub-
Prime Borrowers have limited credit histories, low incomes or past credit
problems and, therefore, are unable to obtain credit from traditional sources of
automobile financing, such as commercial banks, credit unions or captive finance
companies affiliated with major automobile manufacturers.  (The terms "prime"
and "sub-prime" reflect the Company's categorization of borrowers and bear no
relationship to the prime rate of interest or persons who are able to borrow at
that rate.)  The Company believes that, because these potential purchasers
represent a substantial market, there is a demand by automobile dealers for Sub-
Prime Borrower financing that has not been effectively served by traditional
automobile financing sources.
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

Business Strategy

   The Company's primary objective is to increase revenue and earnings through
the expansion of its sales and servicing of Contracts purchased from Dealers.  
The Company's strategy is to:

   -  Maintain consistent underwriting standards and portfolio performance.

   -  Increase the number of Contracts it purchases from its existing Dealers.

   -  Expand its Dealer network, in part by entry into other geographic areas
      (see "Purchase and Sale of Contracts--Dealer Contract Purchase Program").

   -  Control and/or reduce its cost of funds by proper structuring of its
      securitization offerings and by obtaining the necessary ratings from
      nationally recognized credit rating agencies.

   -  Evaluate opportunities to provide additional products and services, such
      as automobile insurance, credit cards and extended maintenance contracts.

Expansion And Diversification

   In March 1996, CPS formed Samco Acceptance Corp. ("Samco"), an 80 percent-
owned subsidiary based in Dallas, Texas.  Samco's business plan is to provide
the Company's sub-prime auto finance products to rural areas through
independently owned finance companies.  The Company believes that many rural
areas are not adequately served by other industry participants due to their
distance from large metropolitan areas where a Dealer marketing representative
is most likely to be based.

   Samco employees call on independent finance companies ("IFCs"), primarily in
the southeastern United States, and present them with financing programs that
are essentially identical to those which CPS markets directly to Dealers through
its marketing representatives. The Company believes that a typical rural IFC has
relationships with many local automobile purchasers as well as Dealers who,
because of their financial resources or capital structure, are generally unable
to provide 36, 48 or 60 month financing for an automobile. IFCs may offer
Samco's financing programs to borrowers directly or to local Dealers. Upon
submission of applications to Samco, credit personnel who have been trained by
CPS use CPS's proprietary systems to evaluate the borrower and the proposed
Contract terms. Samco purchases Contracts from the IFCs after its credit
personnel have performed all of the underwriting and verification procedures
that CPS performs for Contracts it purchases from Dealers. Servicing and
collection procedures on Samco Contracts are performed by CPS at its
headquarters in Irvine, California. However, Samco may solicit aid from the IFC
in collecting accounts that are seriously past due. For the year ended December
31, 1997, Samco purchased 2,306 Contracts with original balances aggregating
$26.2 million.

   In May 1996, CPS formed LINC Acceptance Corp. ("LINC"), an 80 percent-owned
subsidiary based in Norwalk, Connecticut. LINC provides the Company's sub-prime
auto finance products to credit unions, banks and savings and loans ("Deposit
Institutions"). The Company believes that Deposit Institutions do not generally
make loans to Sub-Prime Borrowers, even though they may have relationships with
Dealers and have Sub-Prime Borrowers as deposit customers.

   LINC calls on various Deposit Institutions and presents them with a financing
program that is similar to those which CPS markets directly to Dealers through
its marketing representatives.  The LINC program is intended to result in a
slightly more creditworthy borrower than the Company's regular programs by
requiring slightly higher income and lower debt-to-income ratios.  LINC's
customers may offer its financing program to borrowers directly or to local
Dealers.  Unlike Samco, which has employees who evaluate applications and make
decisions to purchase Contracts, LINC applications are submitted by the Deposit
Institution directly to CPS, where the approval, underwriting and purchase
procedures are performed by CPS staff who work with LINC as well as with CPS
Dealers.   Servicing and collection procedures on LINC Contracts are performed
entirely by CPS using its personnel. For the year ended December 31, 1997, LINC
purchased 678 Contracts with original balances aggregating $8.9 million.

Purchase And Sale Of Contracts

   Dealer Contract Purchase Program.  As of December 31, 1997, the Company was a
party to its standard form dealer agreements ("Dealer Agreements") with 3,193
Dealers.  Approximately 97.9% of these Dealers are franchised new car dealers
that sell both new and used cars and the remainder are independent used car
dealers.  For the year 

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

ended December 31, 1997, approximately 91.5% of the
Contracts purchased by the Company consisted of financing for used cars and the
remaining 8.5% for new cars.  Most of these Dealers regularly submit Contracts
to the Company for purchase, although such Dealers are under no obligation to
submit any Contracts to the Company, nor is the Company obligated to purchase
any Contracts. During the year ended December 31, 1997, no Dealer accounted for
more than 1.0% of the total number of Contracts purchased by the Company.  In
addition, the Company continues to diversify geographically, and has reduced its
concentration of Contract purchases in California from 25.8% for the year ended
December 31, 1996, to 18.1% for the year ended December 31, 1997.  The following
table sets forth the geographical sources of the Contracts purchased by the
Company (based on the addresses of the borrowers as stated on the Company's
records) during the years ended December 31, 1997 and December 31, 1996:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     Contracts Purchased During Year Ended
                                ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           December 31, 1997                       December 31, 1996
                                -----------------------------------      ----------------------------------
                                      Number              Percent             Number              Percent
                                ----------------     --------------      --------------     ---------------
<S>                             <C>                  <C>                 <C>                <C>
California                           9,035               18.1%                7,296                25.8%
Texas                                3,649                7.3%                2,073                 7.3%
Pennsylvania                         3,622                7.2%                2,730                 9.6%
Florida                              3,404                6.8%                2,638                 9.3%
Louisiana                            3,142                6.3%                1,184                 4.2%
New York                             2,941                5.9%                1,201                 4.2%
Illinois                             2,413                4.8%                1,385                 4.9%
Alabama                              2,070                4.1%                  906                 3.2%
Tennessee                            2,012                4.0%                1,225                 4.3%
Michigan                             1,954                3.9%                  788                 2.8%
North Carolina                       1,613                3.2%                  155                 0.6%
Maryland                             1,586                3.2%                  920                 3.3%
Georgia                              1,503                3.0%                  181                 0.6%
Nevada                               1,271                2.5%                1,060                 3.7%
New Jersey                           1,188                2.4%                  625                 2.2%
Other States                         8,660               17.3%                3,938                13.9%
                                ----------------     --------------      --------------     ---------------
Total                               50,063                                   28,305
                                ================                         ==============
</TABLE>

   When a retail automobile buyer elects to obtain financing from a Dealer, an
application is taken for submission by the Dealer to its financing sources.
Typically, a Dealer will submit the buyer's application to more than one
financing source for review.  The Company believes the Dealer's decision to
finance the automobile purchase with the Company, rather than other financing
sources, is based primarily upon an analysis of the discounted purchase price
offered for the Contract, the timeliness, consistency and predictability of
response, the cash resources of the financing source, and any conditions to
purchase.

   Upon receipt of an application from a Dealer, the Company's administrative
personnel order a report containing information from the three major national
credit bureaus on the applicant to document the buyer's credit history.  If,
upon review by a Company loan officer, it is determined that the application
meets the Company's underwriting criteria, or would meet such criteria with
modification, the Company requests and reviews further information and
supporting documentation and, ultimately, decides whether to purchase the
Contract.  When presented with an application, the Company attempts to notify
the Dealer within four hours as to whether it intends to purchase such Contract.
The Company buys Contracts directly from Dealers and does not make loans
directly to purchasers of automobiles.

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997


   Through December 1996, the Company had purchased Contracts from Dealers at
percentage discounts ranging from 0% to 10% of the total amount financed under
the Contracts, depending on the perceived credit risk of the Contract, plus a
flat acquisition fee, generally $200, for each Contract purchased.  Percentage
discounts averaged 4.1% and 2.8% for the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1996,
respectively.  The Company believes that the level of discounts and fees are a
significant factor in the Dealer's decision to submit a Contract to the Company
for purchase, and will continue to play such a role in the future.  Effective
January 10, 1997, the Company began purchasing Contracts in general without a
percentage discount, charging Dealers only an acquisition fee ranging from zero
to $1,195 for each Contract purchased.  The fees vary based on the perceived
credit risk and, in some cases, the interest rate on the Contract.  The
acquisition fees instituted in January 1997 are larger, on average, than the
acquisition fees previously charged in conjunction with percentage discounts, so
as to result in a similar net purchase price on a typical Contract.  For the
year ended December 31, 1997, the average amount charged per Contract purchased
was $438 or 3.5% of the amount financed.

   The Company attempts to control Dealer misrepresentation by carefully
screening the Contracts it purchases, by establishing and maintaining
professional business relationships with Dealers, and by including certain
representations and warranties by the Dealer in the Dealer Agreement.  Pursuant
to the Dealer Agreement, the Company may require the Dealer to repurchase any
Contract in the event that the Dealer breaches its representations or warranties
or if a borrower fails, for any reason, to make timely payment of the first
installment due under a Contract.  There can be no assurance, however, that any
Dealer will have the financial resources to satisfy its repurchase obligations
to the Company.

   Contract Purchase Criteria.  To be eligible for purchase by the Company, a
Contract must have been originated by a Dealer that has entered into a Dealer
Agreement to sell Contracts to the Company.  The Contracts must be secured by a
first priority lien on a new or used automobile, light truck or passenger van
and must meet the Company's underwriting criteria.  In addition, each Contract
requires the borrower to maintain physical damage insurance covering the
financed vehicle and naming the Company as a loss payee.  The Company or any
purchaser of the Contract from the Company may, nonetheless, suffer a loss upon
theft or physical damage of any financed vehicle if the borrower fails to
maintain insurance as required by the Contract and is unable to pay for repairs
to or replacement of the vehicle or is otherwise unable to fulfill its
obligations under the Contract.

   The Company believes that its objective underwriting criteria enable it to
evaluate effectively the creditworthiness of Sub-Prime Borrowers and the
adequacy of the financed vehicle as security for a Contract. These criteria
include standards for price; term; amount of down payment, installment payment
and add-on interest rate; mileage, age and type of vehicle; principal amount of
the Contract in relation to the value of the vehicle; borrower's income level,
job and residence stability, credit history and debt serviceability; and other
factors. Specifically, the Company's guidelines limit the maximum principal
amount of a purchased Contract to 115% of wholesale book value in the case of
used vehicles or to 110% of the manufacturer's invoice in the case of new
vehicles, plus, in each case, sales tax, licensing and, when the customer
purchases such additional items, a service contract or a credit life or
disability policy.  The Company does not finance vehicles that are more than
eight model years old or have in excess of 85,000 miles.  The maximum term of a
purchased Contract is 60 months; a shorter maximum term may be applied based on
the year and mileage of the vehicle.  These criteria are subject to change from
time to time as circumstances may warrant.  Upon receiving this information with
the borrower's application, the Company's underwriters verify the borrower's
employment, residency, insurance and credit information provided by the borrower
by contacting various parties noted on the borrower's application, credit
information bureaus and other sources.

   Credit Scoring.  From inception through December 31, 1997, the Company has
purchased $1.4 billion in Contracts and, as of December 31, 1997, had an
outstanding servicing portfolio of $902.7 million.  The Company's management
information systems are structured to include a variety of credit and
demographic data for each Contract as well as maintaining data which indicate
each Contract's past or current performance characteristics.  Furthermore,  the
Company's technical staff have the ability to interrogate the database to
compare performing and non-performing Contracts and to ascertain which
demographic and credit related data elements may be predictors of credit
performance.

   In November 1996, the Company implemented a scoring model that assigns each
Contract a numeric value (a "credit score") at the time the application is
received from the Dealer and the borrower's credit information is retrieved from
the credit reporting agencies.  The credit score is based on a variety of
parameters such as the 

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

borrower's job and residence stability, the amount of the down payment, and the
age and mileage of the vehicle. The Company has developed the credit score as a
means of identifying Contracts where a review by a supervisor or manager, prior
to approval, is warranted. Regardless of the credit score a Contract originally
receives, the Company's underwriters perform the same extensive review and
verification procedures on all Contracts. The credit score is also used to
identify Contracts for which review by a supervisor or manager prior to approval
and purchase may be appropriate.

   The actual agreement for purchase of the vehicle ("Contract") is prepared by
the Dealer.  The Dealer also arranges for recording the Company's lien on the
vehicle.  After the appropriate documents are signed by the Dealer and the
borrower, the Dealer sells the Contract to the Company.  The borrower then
receives monthly billing statements.

   All of the Contracts purchased by the Company are fully amortizing and
provide for level payments over the term of the Contract. The average original
principal amount financed under Contracts purchased in the year ended December
31, 1997 was approximately $12,625, with an average original term of
approximately 55.0 months and an average down payment of 15.5%.  Based on
information contained in borrower applications, for this twelve-month period,
the retail purchase price of the related automobiles averaged $13,020 (which
excludes tax and license fees, and any additional costs such as a maintenance
contract), the average age of the vehicle at the time the Contract was purchased
was 3 years, and the Company's average borrower at the time of purchase was
approximately 36.0 years old, with approximately $34,973 in average household
income and an average of 4 years' history with his or her current employer.

   All Contracts may be prepaid at any time without penalty.  In the event a
borrower elects to prepay a Contract in full, the payoff amount is calculated by
deducting the unearned interest from the Contract balance, in the case of a pre-
computed Contract, or by adding accrued interest to the Contract balance, in the
case of a simple interest Contract.  

   Each Contract purchased by the Company prohibits the sale or transfer of the
financed vehicle without the Company's consent and allows for the acceleration
of the maturity of a Contract upon a sale or transfer without such consent.  In
most circumstances, the Company will not consent to a sale or transfer of a
financed vehicle unless the related Contract is prepaid in full.

   The Company believes that the most important requirements to succeed in the
sub-prime automobile financing market are the ability to control borrower and
Dealer misrepresentation at the point of origination; the development and
consistent implementation of objective underwriting criteria specifically
designed to evaluate the creditworthiness of Sub-Prime Borrowers; and the
maintenance of an active program to monitor performance and collect payments.

Securitization and Sale of Contracts to Institutional Investors

   The Company purchases Contracts with the primary intention of reselling them
to investors as asset-backed securities through securitizations.  The
securitizations are generally structured as follows:  First, the Company sells a
portfolio of Contracts to a wholly owned subsidiary ("SPS") which has been
established for the limited purpose of buying and reselling the Company's
Contracts.  The SPS then transfers the same Contracts to either a Grantor or
Owner Trust (the "Trust"), and the Trust in turn issues interest-bearing asset-
backed securities (the "Certificates"), generally in an amount equal to the
aggregate principal balance of the Contracts. One or more investors purchase
these Certificates; the proceeds from the sale of the certificates are then used
to purchase the Contracts from the Company. In addition, the Company provides a
credit enhancement for the benefit of the investors in the form of an initial
cash deposit to a specific account ("Spread Account") held by the Trust. The
Spread Account is required by the Servicing Agreement (as defined below) to
be maintained at specified levels.

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

   In connection with the sale of the Contracts, the Company is required to make
certain normal representations and warranties, which generally duplicate the
substance of the representations and warranties made by Dealers in connection
with the Company's purchase of the Contracts.  If the Company breaches any of
its representations or warranties to a purchaser of the Contracts, the Company
will be obligated to repurchase the Contract from such purchaser at a price
equal to such purchaser's purchase price less the related cash securitization
reserve and any payments received by such purchaser on the Contract.  In most
cases, the Company would then be entitled under the terms of its Dealer
Agreement to require the selling Dealer to repurchase the Contract at a price
equal to the Company's purchase price, less any payments made by the borrower.
Subject to any recourse against Dealers, the Company will bear the risk of loss
on repossession and resale of vehicles under Contracts repurchased by it.

   Terms of Servicing Agreements.  The Company currently services all Contracts
sold and expects to service all Contracts that it purchases and sells in the
future.  Pursuant to the Company's usual form of servicing agreement (the
Company's servicing agreements are collectively referred to as the "Servicing
Agreements"), the Company is obligated to service all Contracts sold to the
investors or Trusts in accordance with the Company's standard procedures.  The
Servicing Agreements generally provide that the Company will bear all costs and
expenses incurred in connection with the management, administration and
collection of the Contracts serviced.  The Servicing Agreements also provide
that the Company will take all actions necessary or reasonably requested by the
investor to maintain perfection and priority of the investor's or the Trust's
security interest in the financed vehicles.

   Upon the sale of a portfolio of Contracts to an investor or a trust, the
Company mails to borrowers monthly billing statements directing them to mail
payments on the Contracts to a lock-box account.  The Company engages an
independent lock-box processing agent to retrieve and process payments received
in the lock-box account.  This results in a daily deposit to the investor's or
the Trust's bank account of the entire amount of each day's lock-box receipts
and the simultaneous electronic data transfer to the Company of borrower payment
data records.  Pursuant to the Servicing Agreements, the Company is required to
deliver monthly reports to the investor or the Trust reflecting all transaction
activity with respect to the Contracts. The reports contain, among other
information, a reconciliation of the change in the aggregate principal balance
of the Contracts in the portfolio to the amounts deposited into the investor's
or the Trust's bank account as reflected in the daily reports of the lock-box
processing agent.

   The Company is entitled under most of the Servicing Agreements to receive a
base monthly servicing fee of 2.0% per annum computed as a percentage of the
declining outstanding principal balance of the non-defaulted Contracts in the
portfolio.  Each month, after payment of the Company's base monthly servicing
fee and certain other fees, the investor receives the paid principal reduction
of the Contracts in its portfolios and interest thereon at the pass-through
rate.  If, in any month, collections on the Contracts are insufficient to pay
such amounts and any principal reduction due to charge-offs, the shortfall is
satisfied from the Spread Account established in connection with the sale of the
portfolio.  (If the Spread Account is not sufficient to satisfy a shortfall,
then the investor or Trust may suffer a loss to the extent that the shortfall
exceeds the Spread Account.)  If collections on the Contracts exceed such
amounts, the excess is utilized, first, to build up or replenish the Spread
Account to the extent required, next, to cover deficiencies in Spread Accounts
for other portfolios, and the balance, if any, constitutes excess cash flows,
which are distributed to the Company.   The Servicing Agreements also provide
that the Company is entitled to receive certain late fees collected from
borrowers.

   Pursuant to the Servicing Agreements, the Company is generally required to
charge off the balance of any Contract by the earlier of the end of the month in
which the Contract becomes five scheduled installments past due or, in the case
of repossessions, the month that the proceeds from the liquidation of the
financed vehicle are received by the Company.  In the case of a repossession,
the amount of the charge-off is the difference between the outstanding principal
balance of the defaulted Contract and the repossession sale proceeds.  In the
event collections on the Contracts are not sufficient to pay to the investor the
entire principal balance of any Contracts charged off during the month, the
Spread Account established in connection with the sale of the Contracts is
reduced by the unpaid principal amount of such Contracts.  Such amount would
then have to be restored to the Spread Account from future collections on the
Contracts remaining in the portfolio before the Company would again be entitled
to receive excess cash.  In addition, the Company would not be entitled to
receive any further monthly servicing fees with respect to the defaulted
Contracts.  Subject to any recourse against the Company in the event of a breach
of the Company's representations and warranties with respect to any Contracts
and after any recourse to any insurer guarantees backing the Certificates, the
investor bears the risk of all charge-offs on the Contracts in excess of the
Spread 

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

Account.  However, the Company would experience a reduction in cash
distributions in the event of greater than anticipated charge-offs or
prepayments on Contracts sold and serviced by the Company.

   The Servicing Agreements are terminable by the investor in the event of
certain defaults by the Company and under certain other circumstances.  None of
the Servicing Agreements are in default or otherwise terminable as of December
31, 1997.

Servicing of Contracts

   General.  The Company's servicing activities consist of collecting,
accounting for and posting of all payments received; responding to borrower
inquiries; taking all necessary action to maintain the security interest granted
in the financed vehicle or other collateral; investigating delinquencies;
communicating with the borrower to obtain timely payments; repossessing and
reselling the collateral when necessary; and generally monitoring each Contract
and any related collateral.

   Collection Procedures.  The Company believes that its ability to monitor
performance and collect payments owed from Sub-Prime Borrowers is primarily a
function of its collection approach and support systems.  The Company believes
that if payment problems are identified early and the Company's collection staff
works closely with borrowers to address these problems, it is possible to
correct many of them before they deteriorate further.  To this end, the Company
utilizes pro-active collection procedures, which include making early and
frequent contact with delinquent borrowers; educating borrowers as to the
importance of maintaining good credit; and employing a consultative and customer
service approach to assist the borrower in meeting his or her obligations, which
includes attempting to identify the underlying causes of delinquency and cure
them whenever possible.  In support of its collection activities, the Company
maintains a computerized collection system specifically designed to service
automobile installment sale contracts with Sub-Prime Borrowers and similar
consumer loan contracts.  See "Management Information Systems."

   With the aid of its high penetration auto dialer, the Company typically
attempts to make telephonic contact with delinquent borrowers on the sixth day
after their monthly payment due date.  Using coded instructions from a
collection supervisor, the automatic dialer will attempt to contact borrowers
based on their physical location, state of delinquency, size of balance or other
parameters.  If the automatic dialer obtains a "no-answer" or a busy signal, it
records the attempt on the borrower's record and moves on to the next call.  If
a live voice answers the automatic dialer's call, the call is transferred to a
waiting collector at the same time that the borrower's pertinent information is
simultaneously displayed on the collector's workstation.  The collector then
inquires of the borrower the reason for the delinquency and when the Company can
expect to receive the payment.  The collector will attempt to get the borrower
to make a promise for the delinquent payment for a time generally not to exceed
one week from the date of the call.  If the borrower makes such a promise, the
account is routed to a pending queue and is not contacted until the outcome of
the promise is known.  If the payment is made by the promise date and the
account is no longer delinquent, the account is routed out of the collection
system.  If the payment is not made, or if the payment is made, but the account
remains delinquent, the account is returned to the automatic dialing queue for
subsequent contacts.

   If a borrower fails to make or keep promises for payments, or if the borrower
is uncooperative or attempts to evade contact or hide the vehicle, a supervisor
will review the collection activity relating to the account to determine if
repossession of the vehicle is warranted.  Generally, such a decision will occur
between the 45th and 90th day past the borrower's payment due date, but could
occur sooner or later, depending on the specific circumstances.

   If a decision to repossess is made by a supervisor, such assignment is given
to one of many licensed, bonded repossession agents used by the Company. When
the vehicle is recovered, the repossession agent delivers it to a wholesale auto
auction where it is kept until it is liquidated, usually within 30 days of the
repossession.  Liquidation proceeds are applied to the borrower's outstanding
obligation under the Contract and the borrower is advised of his obligation to
pay any deficiency balance that remains.  The Company uses all practical means
available to collect deficiency balances, including filing for judgments against
borrowers where applicable.

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

   The Company's financial results are affected by the performance of the of
Contracts it has purchased.  The tables below document the delinquency,
repossession and net credit loss experience of all Contracts purchased by the
Company since its inception:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     Delinquency Experience (1)
                                         December 31, 1997              December 31, 1996          December 31, 1995
                                      --------------------------     ------------------------   ----------------------
                                         Number                         Number                     Number
                                      of Contracts    Amount         of Contracts   Amount      of Contracts    Amount
                                      ------------    ----------     ------------   --------    ------------   -------
                                                                   (Dollars in thousands)
<S>                                   <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>        <C>            <C>
Gross servicing portfolio..........     83,414        $1,031,573          47,187    $604,092        27,129    $356,114
Period of delinquency (2)
31-60 days.........................      3,092            36,609           1,801      22,099           910      11,525
61-90 days.........................      1,243            15,303             724       9,068           203       2,654
91+ days...........................      1,393            17,869             768       9,906           273       3,912
                                        ------        ----------          ------    --------        ------    --------
Total delinquencies(2).............      5,728            69,781           3,293      41,073         1,386      18,091
Amount in repossession (3).........      1,977            24,463           1,168      14,563           836      10,179
                                        ------        ----------          ------    --------        ------    --------
Total delinquencies and amount in
repossession (2)...................      7,705        $   94,244           4,461    $ 55,636         2,222    $ 28,270
                                        ======        ==========          ======    ========        ======    ========
Delinquencies as a percent
of gross servicing portfolio.......        6.9%              6.8%            7.0%        6.8%          5.1%        5.1%
 
Total delinquencies and amount in
repossession as a percent of gross
servicing portfolio................        9.2%              9.1%            9.5%        9.2%          8.2%        7.9%
</TABLE>
                                                                                
(1)  All amounts and percentages are based on the full amount remaining to be
     repaid on each Contract, including, for Rule of 78s Contracts, any unearned
     finance charges.  The information in the table represents the principal
     amount of all Contracts purchased by the Company, including Contracts
     subsequently sold by the Company which it continues to service.
(2)  The Company considers a Contract delinquent when an obligor fails to make
     at least 90% of a contractually due payment by the following due date,
     which date may have been extended within limits specified in the Servicing
     Agreements.  The period of delinquency is based on the number of days
     payments are contractually past due.  Contracts less than 31 days
     delinquent are not included.
(3)  Amount in repossession represents financed vehicles which have been
     repossessed but not yet liquidated.

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

                         Net Charge-Off Experience(1)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     Nine Months
                                                                                       Ended
                                                     Year Ended December 31,         December 31,
                                                   ---------------------------       ------------
                                                                (Dollars in thousands)
                                                      1997            1996              1995 (2)
                                                   ----------      -----------       ------------
<S>                                                <C>             <C>               <C>
Average servicing portfolio outstanding.........     $703,100         $397,430           $240,864

Net charge-offs as a percent of average
 servicing portfolio (3)........................          5.9%             5.1%               4.9%
</TABLE>

(1)  All amounts and percentages are based on the principal amount scheduled to
     be paid on each Contract.  The information in the table represents all
     Contracts purchased by the Company including Contracts subsequently sold by
     the Company that it continues to service.

(2)  The percentages set forth for the nine-month period ended December 31,
     1995, are computed using annualized operating data which do not necessarily
     represent comparable data for a full twelve-month period.

(3)  Net charge-offs include the remaining principal balance, after the
     application of the net proceeds from the liquidation of the vehicle
     (excluding accrued and unpaid interest).  For periods prior to the year
     ended December 31, 1996, post liquidation amounts received on previously
     charged off Contracts were applied to the period in which the related
     Contract was originally charged off. These prior period allocations were
     made only for the purpose of calculating this ratio.  For financial
     statement purposes, post liquidation amounts are recognized in the period
     received.  Effective January 1, 1996, post liquidation amounts received on
     previously charged off Contracts are applied in the period in which they
     are received, both for this ratio and financial statement purposes.

Management Information Systems

   The Company maintains sophisticated data processing support and management
information systems.  To support its collection efforts, the Company utilizes
Digital Systems International's Intelligent Dialing System, a high-penetration
automatic dialer, in conjunction with the American Management Systems' Computer
Assisted Collection System software, which has been customized by the Company,
and other accounting software programs.  All systems are operated at the
Company's offices on an Advance System IBM AS/400 computer.

   The Company's high-penetration automatic dialer controls multiple telephone
lines and automatically dials numbers from file records in accordance with
programmed instructions established by management.  If the dialer receives a
busy signal or no answer, it will generally route the number for a subsequent
re-call.  The dialer has the ability to distinguish a pre-recorded voice and
will leave the appropriate digitized human voice message on the borrower's
answering machine.  Generally, the dialer transfers the call to a collector only
after it has determined that there is a live voice on the line.  In most
instances, this is accomplished so rapidly that the individual receiving the
call is unaware that an automatic dialer has been used.  The efficiency of the
auto dialer allows the Company to place as many as 5,000 telephone calls per
day.

   The high-penetration automatic dialer also monitors telephone activity and
activates more telephone lines when connect rates are low or shuts down lines
when connect rates are high.  Once a live call is passed to a collector, all
relevant account information, including one of 99 account status codes,
automatically appears on the collector's video screen.  The Company believes the
capabilities of the automatic dialer reduce the likelihood that an account will
remain delinquent for a prolonged period without appropriate follow-up.

                                       9
<PAGE>
  
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

   The Company's automation allows it to electronically sort and prioritize each
collector's workload as well as to implement specific collection strategies.
Moreover, the Company has adopted certain procedural controls designed to ensure
that certain important decisions, such as ordering a repossession, initiating
legal action or materially modifying an account, are automatically routed to a
supervisor for review and approval.

Competition

   The automobile financing business is highly competitive.  The Company
competes with a number of national, local and regional finance companies with
operations similar to those of the Company.  In addition, competitors or
potential competitors include other types of financial services companies, such
as commercial banks, savings and loan associations, leasing companies, credit
unions providing retail loan financing and lease financing for new and used
vehicles, and captive finance companies affiliated with major automobile
manufacturers such as General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Ford Motor Credit
Corporation, Chrysler Credit Corporation and Nissan Motors Acceptance
Corporation.  Many of the Company's competitors and potential competitors
possess substantially greater financial, marketing, technical, personnel and
other resources than the Company.  Moreover, the Company's future profitability
will be directly related to the availability and cost of its capital in relation
to the availability and cost of capital to its competitors.  The Company's
competitors and potential competitors include far larger, more established
companies that have access to capital markets for unsecured commercial paper and
investment grade-rated debt instruments and to other funding sources which may
be unavailable to the Company.  Many of these companies also have long-standing
relationships with Dealers and may provide other financing to Dealers, including
floor plan financing for the Dealers' purchase of automobiles from
manufacturers, which is not offered by the Company.

   The Company believes that the principal competitive factors affecting a
Dealer's decision to offer Contracts for sale to a particular financing source
are the purchase price offered for the Contracts, the reasonableness of the
financing source's underwriting guidelines and documentation requests, the
predictability and timeliness of purchases and the financial stability of the
funding source.  The Company believes that it can obtain from Dealers sufficient
Contracts for purchase at attractive prices by consistently applying reasonable
underwriting criteria and making timely purchases of qualifying Contracts.

   The Company believes that it can compete effectively for the interest of
institutional investors in purchasing Contracts acquired by the Company, based
upon (i) the historical performance of portfolios of Contracts sold and serviced
by it, (ii) its willingness to establish substantial credit enhancements for the
benefit of investors, and (iii) its willingness to derive a portion of its
revenues from excess cash flow distributed on a monthly basis, rather than up-
front fees paid at the time of sale of the Contracts.

Marketing

   The Company establishes relationships with Dealers through Company
representatives who contact a prospective Dealer to explain the Company's
Contract purchases and thereafter provide Dealer training and support services.
As of December 31, 1997, the Company had 80 representatives, 43 of whom are
employees and 37 of whom are independent.  The independent representatives are
contractually obligated to represent the Company's financing program
exclusively.  The Company's representatives present the Dealer with a marketing
package, which includes the Company's promotional material containing the terms
offered by the Company for the purchase of Contracts, a 

                                      10

<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

copy of the Company's standard-form Dealer Agreement, examples of monthly
reports and required documentation relating to Contracts, but they have no
authority relating to the decision to purchase Contracts from Dealers. The
Company's acceptance of a Dealer is subject to its analysis of, among other
things, the Dealer's operating history.

   The Company has not actively advertised its automobile financing or third-
party loan servicing businesses, although it may do so selectively in the
future.

Government Regulation

   The Company intends to obtain and maintain all licenses necessary to the
lawful conduct of its business and operations.  The Company is not licensed to
make loans directly to borrowers.

   Several federal and state consumer protection laws, including the Federal
Truth-In-Lending Act, the Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Federal Fair
Debt Collection Practices Act and the Federal Trade Commission Act, regulate the
extension of credit in consumer credit transactions.  These laws mandate certain
disclosures with respect to finance charges on Contracts and impose certain
other restrictions on Dealers.  In addition, laws in a number of states impose
limitations on the amount of finance charges that may be charged by Dealers on
credit sales.  The so-called Lemon Laws enacted by the Federal government and
various states provide certain rights to purchasers with respect to motor
vehicles that fail to satisfy express warranties.  The application of Lemon Laws
or violation of such other Federal and state laws may give rise to a claim or
defense of a borrower against a Dealer and its assignees, including the Company
and purchasers of Contracts from the Company.  The Dealer Agreement contains
representations by the Dealer that, as of the date of assignment of Contracts,
no such claims or defenses have been asserted or threatened with respect to the
Contracts and that all requirements of such Federal and state laws have been
complied with in all material respects.  Although a Dealer would be obligated to
repurchase Contracts that involve a breach of such warranty, there can be no
assurance that the Dealer will have the financial resources to satisfy its
repurchase obligations to the Company.  Certain of these laws also regulate the
Company's servicing activities, including its methods of collection.

   Although the Company believes that it is currently in compliance with
applicable statutes and regulations, there can be no assurance that the Company
will be able to maintain such compliance.  The failure to comply with such
statutes and regulations could have a material adverse effect upon the Company.
Furthermore, the adoption of additional statutes and regulations, changes in the
interpretation and enforcement of current statutes and regulations or the
expansion of the Company's business into jurisdictions that have adopted more
stringent regulatory requirements than those in which the Company currently
conducts business could have a material adverse effect upon the Company.  In
addition, due to the consumer-oriented nature of the industry in which the
Company operates and the application of certain laws and regulations, industry
participants are regularly named as defendants in litigation involving alleged
violations of Federal and state laws and regulations and consumer law torts,
including fraud. Many of these actions involve alleged violations of consumer
protection laws. A significant judgment against the Company or within the
industry in connection with any such litigation could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
See "Legal Proceedings."

   Upon the purchase of Contracts by the Company, the original Contracts and
related title documents for the financed vehicles are delivered by the selling
Dealers to the Company.  Upon the sale of each portfolio of Contracts by the
Company, a financing statement is filed under the Uniform Commercial Code as
adopted in the applicable state (the "UCC") to perfect and give notice of the
purchaser's security interest in the Contracts.

   The Dealer Agreement and related assignment contain representations and
warranties by the Dealer that an application for state registration of each
financed vehicle, naming the Company as secured party with respect to the
vehicle, was effected at the time of sale of the related Contract to the
Company, and that all necessary steps have been taken to obtain a perfected
first priority security interest in each financed vehicle in favor of the
Company under the laws of the state in which the financed vehicle is registered.
If a Dealer or the Company, because of clerical error or otherwise, has failed
to take such action in a timely manner, or to maintain such interest with
respect to a financed vehicle, neither the Company nor any purchaser of the
related Contract from the Company would have a perfected security interest in
the financed vehicle and its security interest may be subordinate to the
interest of, among others, subsequent purchasers of the financed vehicle,
holders of perfected security interests and a trustee in bankruptcy of 

                                      11

<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

the borrower. The security interest of the Company or the purchaser of a
Contract may also be subordinate to the interests of third parties if the
interest is not perfected due to administrative error by state recording
officials. Moreover, fraud or forgery by the borrower could render a Contract
unenforceable against third parties. In such events, the Company could be
required by the purchaser to repurchase the Contract. In the event the Company
is required to repurchase a Contract, it will generally have recourse against
the Dealer from which it purchased the Contract. This recourse will be unsecured
except for a lien on the vehicle covered by the Contract, and there can be no
assurance that any Dealer will have the financial resources to satisfy its
repurchase obligations to the Company. Subject to any recourse against Dealers,
the Company will bear any loss on repossession and resale of vehicles financed
under Contracts repurchased by it from investors.

   Under the laws of many states, liens for storage and repairs performed on a
vehicle and for unpaid taxes take priority over a perfected security interest in
the vehicle.  Pursuant to its securitization purchase commitments, the Company
generally warrants that, to the best of the Company's knowledge, no such liens
or claims are pending or threatened with respect to a financed vehicle, which
may be or become prior to or equal with the lien of the related Contracts.  In
the event that any of the Company's representations or warranties proves to be
incorrect, the Trust or the investor would be entitled to require the Company to
repurchase the Contract relating to such financed vehicle.

   The Company, on behalf of purchasers of Contracts, may take action to enforce
the security interest in financed vehicles with respect to any related Contracts
in default by repossession and resale of the financed vehicles.  The UCC and
other state laws regulate repossession sales by requiring that the secured party
provide the borrower with reasonable notice of the date, time and place of any
public sale of the collateral, the date after which any private sale of the
collateral may be held and of the borrower's right to redeem the financed
vehicle prior to any such sale and by providing that any such sale be conducted
in a commercially reasonable manner.  Financed vehicles repossessed generally
are resold by the Company through unaffiliated wholesale automobile networks or
auctions, which are attended principally by used car dealers.

   In the event of a repossession and resale of a financed vehicle, after
payment of outstanding liens for storage, repairs and unpaid taxes, to the
extent those liens take priority over the Company's security interest, and after
payment of the reasonable costs of retaking, holding and selling the vehicle,
the secured party would be entitled to be paid the full outstanding balance of
the Contract out of the sale proceeds before payments are made to the holders of
junior security interests in the financed vehicles, to unsecured creditors of
the borrower, or, thereafter, to the borrower.  Under the UCC and other laws
applicable in most states (including California), a creditor is entitled to
obtain a deficiency judgment from a borrower for any deficiency on repossession
and resale of the motor vehicle securing the unpaid balance of such borrower's
Contract. However, some states impose prohibitions or limitations on deficiency
judgments.  If a deficiency judgment were granted, the judgment would be a
personal judgment against the borrower for the shortfall, and a defaulting
borrower may often have very little capital or few sources of income available
following repossession.  Therefore, in many cases, it may not be useful to seek
a deficiency judgment against a borrower or, if one is obtained, it may be
settled at a significant discount.

Employees

   As of December 31, 1997, the Company had 570 full-time and 4 part-time
employees, of whom 10 are management personnel, 229 are collections personnel,
194 are Contract origination personnel, 57 are marketing personnel (43 of whom
are marketing representatives), 71 are operations personnel, and 13 are
accounting personnel.  The Company believes that its relations with its
employees are good.  The Company is not a party to any collective bargaining
agreement.

Item 2. PROPERTY

   The Company's headquarters are located in Irvine, California, where it leases
approximately 51,400 square feet of general office space from an unaffiliated
lessor.  The annual rent is $524,596 through the year 2000, the final year of
the lease. The Company has an option to extend the lease for an additional five
years upon terms substantially similar to those of the existing lease.

   The Company in March 1997 and September 1997 established branch collection
facilities in Chesapeake, Virginia and Irvine, California, respectively.  The
Company leases approximately 22,719 square feet of general office 

                                      12

<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

space in Chesapeake at a base rent that is currently $318,066 per year,
increasing to $501,545 over a ten-year term. The Company leases approximately
26,251 square feet of general office space for its Irvine collections branch, at
a base rent of $588,000 per year. The Company's lease on the Irvine branch will
expire in August 1998. In addition to base rent, the Company pays its share of
property taxes, maintenance and other common area expenses of all three
premises, currently at the approximate aggregate rate of $164,000 per year.

   In addition, the Company has agreed to lease a new headquarters building,
currently under construction, in Irvine, California.  The new building is
scheduled for completion in September 1998, and will have approximately 115,000
square feet of rentable space, all of which the Company intends to occupy
itself.  The Company has agreed to pay base rent at the rate of $1,904,400 per
year for the first five years of the lease term, and at the rate of $2,097,600
per year for years six through ten.  The Company's lease is to run for a ten-
year term commencing with completion of construction.  The Company will have the
option to cancel the lease after five years without penalty. In addition to the
foregoing base rent, the Company has agreed to pay the property taxes,
maintenance and other expenses of the premises.


Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

   The Company is party to litigation in the ordinary course of business,
generally involving actions against automobile purchasers to collect amounts due
on purchased Contracts or to recover vehicles.  In one such case, relating to
the Chapter 13 bankruptcy of obligors Madeline and Darryl Brownlee, of Chicago,
Illinois, the obligors counterclaimed against the Company on June 30, 1997 in
the bankruptcy court for the Northern District of Illinois. The obligors seek
class-action treatment of their allegation that the cost of an extended service
contract on the automobile they purchased was inadequately disclosed by the
automobile dealer, Joe Cotton Ford of Carol Stream, Illinois. The disclosure is
alleged to violate the Federal Truth In Lending Act and Illinois consumer
protection statutes. The obligors' claim is directed against both the dealer for
making the allegedly improper disclosures and against the Company as holder of
the purchase contract. The relief sought is damages in an unspecified amount,
plus costs of suit and attorney's fees. The court has not ruled on the obligors'
request for class-action treatment, nor on the merits of the claims.

   In another proceeding, arising out of efforts to collect a deficiency balance
from Joseph Barrios of Chicago, Illinois, the debtor has brought suit against
the Company alleging defects in the notice given upon repossession of the
vehicle.  This lawsuit was filed on February 18, 1998 in the circuit court of
Cook County, Illinois.  Barrios, represented by the same law firm as the
Brownlee obligors, seeks class-action treatment of his allegation that notice of
a fifteen day period to reinstate his Contract was misleading, in that it did
not refer to an alleged right to redeem collateral up to the date of sale. The
relief sought is damages in an unspecified amount, plus costs of suit and
attorney's fees. As of the date of this filing, the Company has not been
required to respond to this litigation and has not yet done so.

   The Company intends to dispute both of these matters vigorously, and believes
that it has meritorious defenses to each claim made.  Nevertheless, the outcome
of any litigation is uncertain, and there is the possibility that damages could
be assessed against the Company in amounts that could be material.  It is
management's opinion that all litigation of which it is aware, including the
matters discussed above, will no have a material adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Not applicable.

                                      13

<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information regarding the Company's executive officers follows:

   Charles E. Bradley, Jr., 38, has been the President and a director of the
Company since its formation in March 1991.  In January 1992, Mr. Bradley was
appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Company. From March 1991 until December
1995 he served as Vice President and a director of CPS Holdings, Inc.  From
April 1989 to November 1990, he served as Chief Operating Officer of Barnard and
Company, a private investment firm.  From September 1987 to March 1989, Mr.
Bradley, Jr. was an associate of The Harding Group, a private investment banking
firm.  Mr. Bradley, Jr. is currently serving as a director of NAB Asset
Corporation, Chatwins Group, Inc., Texon Energy Corporation, and Thomas Nix
Distributor, Inc.  Charles E. Bradley, Sr., Chairman of the board of directors
of the Company, is his father.

   Jeffrey P. Fritz, 38, has been Senior Vice President - Chief Financial
Officer and Secretary of the Company since March 1991.  From December 1988 to
March 1991, Mr. Fritz was Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of  Far
Western Bank.  From 1985 to December 1988, Mr. Fritz was a management consultant
for Price Waterhouse in St. Louis, Missouri.

   William L. Brummund, Jr., 45, has been Senior Vice President - Systems
Administration since March 1991.  From 1986 to March 1991, Mr. Brummund was Vice
President and Systems Administrator for Far Western Bank.

   Nicholas P. Brockman, 53, has been Senior Vice President - Asset Recovery &
Liquidation since January 1996.  He was Senior Vice President of Contract
Originations from April 1991 to January 1996.  From 1986 to March 1991, Mr.
Brockman served as a Vice President and Branch Manager of Far Western Bank.

   Richard P. Trotter, 54, has been Senior Vice President-Contract Origination
since January 1996.  He was Senior Vice President of Administration from April
1995 to December 1995.  From January 1994 to April 1995 he was Senior Vice
President-Marketing of the Company.  From December 1992 to January 1994, Mr.
Trotter was Executive Vice President of Lange Financial Corporation, Newport
Beach, California.  From May 1992 to December 1992, he was Executive Director of
Fabozzi, Prenovost & Normandin, Santa Ana, California.  From December 1990 to
May 1992 he was Executive Vice President/Chief Operating Officer of R. Thomas
Ashley, Newport Beach, California.  From April 1984 to December 1990, he was
President/Chief Executive Officer of Far Western Bank, Tustin, California.

   Curtis K. Powell, 41, has been Senior Vice President - Marketing of the
Company since April 1995.  He joined the Company in January 1993 as an
independent marketing representative until being appointed Regional Vice
President of Marketing for Southern California in November 1994.  From June 1985
through January 1993, Mr. Powell was in the retail automobile sales and leasing
business.

   Mark A. Creatura, 38, has been Senior Vice President - General Counsel since
October 1996.  From October 1993 through October 1996, he was Vice President and
General Counsel at Urethane Technologies, Inc., a polyurethane chemicals
formulator.  Mr. Creatura was previously engaged in the private practice of law
with the Los Angeles law firm of Troy & Gould Professional Corporation, from
October 1985 through October 1993.

   Thurman Blizzard, 55, has been Senior Vice President - Collections since
January 1998.  The Company had previously engaged Mr. Blizzard as a consultant
from October 1997 to December 1997 to provide recommendations to the Company
concerning its collections operation.  Prior thereto, Mr. Blizzard served as
Chief Operations Officer of Monaco Finance from May 1994 to March 1997.  Mr.
Blizzard was previously an Asset Liquidation Manager with the Resolution Trust
Corporation, from November 1991 to May 1994.

   Michael J. Campbell, 38, has been Senior Vice President - Corporate
Development since January 1998.  The Company had engaged Mr. Campbell as a
consultant from April 1997 to December 1997 to pursue corporate development
objectives on the Company's behalf.  Prior thereto, Mr. Campbell was chief
financial officer of National IPF Company from February 1996 to March 1997, and
had served as an investment officer with SunAmerica Corporate Finance from
February 1990 to January 1995.

                                      14
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

PART II

Item 5. MARKET FOR COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

   The Company's Common Stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market System,
under the symbol "CPSS." The following table sets forth the high and low closing
prices reported for the Common Stock for the periods indicated (retroactively
adjusted for the two-for-one stock split that occured on March 14, 1996).  Such
quotations reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or
commission.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                   High                  Low
<S>                                                                             <C>                    <C>
January 1 - March 31, 1996................................................         $10.438              $ 7.375
April 1 - June 30, 1996...................................................          10.250                8.250
July 1 - September 30, 1996...............................................          12.750                7.500
October 1 - December 31, 1996.............................................          14.375               10.625
January 1 - March 31, 1997................................................          13.875                7.375
April 1 - June 30, 1997...................................................          12.375                7.000
July 1 - September 30, 1997...............................................          18.250               10.500
October 1 - December 31, 1997.............................................          17.750                7.500
</TABLE>

   As of March 4, 1998, there were 74 holders of record of the Company's
Common Stock.

   To date, the Company has not declared or paid any dividends on its Common
Stock.  The payment of future dividends, if any, on the Company's Common Stock
is within the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon the
Company's earnings, its capital requirements and financial condition, and other
relevant factors. The instruments governing the Company's outstanding debt 
place certain restrictions on the payment of dividends. The Company does not
intend to declare any dividends on its Common Stock in the foreseeable future,
but instead intends to retain any earnings for use in the Company's operations.

                                      15

<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                               Nine-Month
                                                                              Period Ended
                                                 Year ended December 31,      December 31,      Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
                                              -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  1997             1996           1995             1995            1994(1)
                                             -----------      ----------      ------------      -----------      ----------
                                                                   (In Thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                          <C>              <C>             <C>               <C>              <C> 
Statement of Earnings Data:
Gain on sale of Contracts, net............   $    39,133      $   23,321      $     11,549      $     9,455      $    5,425
Interest income...........................        23,526          19,980             9,220           10,561           3,955
Servicing fees............................        14,487           7,893             3,485            2,489           1,044
Total revenue.............................        79,340          51,194            24,254           22,505          10,424
Operating expenses (1)....................        47,381          27,502            11,597           11,358          11,712
Net earnings (loss).......................        18,532          14,097             7,575            6,666          (1,778)
Basic earnings (loss) per share (2).......   $      1.29      $     1.05      $       0.65      $      0.75      $    (0.21)
Diluted earnings (loss) per share (2).....   $      1.17      $     0.93      $       0.52      $      0.61      $    (0.21)
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       December 31,                    March 31,
                                                --------------------------------------------------------
                                                 1997      1996      1995        1995     1994    1993
                                                -------   -------   ------      ------   ------   -----
                                                                    (In Thousands)
<S>                                             <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>      <C>      <C>
Balance Sheet Data:
Contracts held for sale......................    68,271    21,657   19,549      21,896      647   5,054
Residual interests in securitization.........   124,616    67,252   41,586      28,355   12,791     503
Total assets.................................   225,895   101,946   77,878      57,975   16,538   6,922
Warehouse lines of credit....................    61,666    13,265    7,500      19,730        -       -
Subordinated debt............................    55,000    23,000   23,000       5,000    5,000   2,000
Total liabilities............................   143,288    44,989   36,397      30,981    6,337   2,833
Total shareholders' equity...................    82,607    56,957   41,481      26,994   10,201   4,089
</TABLE>


(1)  In October 1992, as a condition to the initial public offering of Common
     Stock of the Company, the then majority shareholder of the Company
     deposited 1,200,000 shares of Common Stock (the "Escrow Shares") in escrow.
     The escrow agreement provided that part or all of the Escrow Shares would
     be released if the Company's net earnings after taxes (as defined in the
     escrow agreement) or the average market price of the Common Stock for
     specified periods exceeded specified levels.  The Company's net earnings
     (as defined in the escrow agreement) for fiscal 1994 (prior to the
     accounting effect of the release of the Escrow Shares) exceeded the
     specified level and, accordingly, all 1,200,000 Escrow Shares were
     released. The release of the Escrow Shares was deemed compensatory for
     accounting purposes, resulting in a one-time, non-cash charge of $6,450,000
     against earnings for fiscal 1994. Without that charge, net earnings, basic
     earnings per share and diluted net earnings per share for fiscal 1994 would
     have been $4,672,000, $.54 and $.48, respectively.

(2)  All prior periods have been restated in accordance with Statement of
     Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings per Share."

                                      16
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997


Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

   The following analysis of the financial condition of the Company should be
read in conjunction with "Selected Financial Data" and the Company's
Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto and the other financial
data included elsewhere in this report.

   Overview

   The Company specializes in the business of purchasing, selling and servicing
retail automobile installment sales Contracts originated by Dealers in the sale
of new and used automobiles, light trucks and passenger vans and has done so
since its inception on March 8, 1991.  Through its purchases, the Company
provides indirect financing to borrowers with limited credit histories, low
incomes or past credit problems.

   The Company generates earnings primarily from the gains recognized on the
sale or securitization of its Contracts, servicing fees earned on Contracts
sold, and interest earned on Contracts held for sale.  Earnings from gains on
sale, interest and servicing fees for the year ended December 31, 1997, were
$39.1 million, $23.5 million, and $14.5 million, respectively.  Such earnings
for the year ended December 31, 1996, were $23.3 million, $20.0 million, and
$7.9 million, respectively. For the nine-month period ended December 31, 1995,
such earnings were $11.5 million, $9.2 million and $3.5 million, respectively.
The Company's income is affected by losses incurred on Contracts, whether such
Contracts are held for sale or have been sold in securitizations. The Company's
cash requirements have been and will continue to be significant. Net cash used
in operating activities for the year, ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the
nine-month period ended December 31, 1995 were $26.1 million, $8.4 million and
$18.5 million, respectively.

   The Company purchases Contracts with the primary intention of reselling them
to Investors as asset-backed securities through securitizations.  The
securitizations are generally structured as follows: First, the Company sells a
portfolio of Contracts to a wholly owned subsidiary ("SPS") which has been
established for the limited purpose of buying and reselling the Company's
Contracts. The SPS then transfers the same Contracts to either a Grantor Trust
or an Owner Trust (the "Trust"), and the Trust in turn issues interest-bearing
asset-backed securities (the "Certificates") generally in an amount equal to the
aggregate principal balance of the Contracts. The Company typically sells these
Contracts at face value and without recourse except that the normal
representations and warranties provided by the Dealer to the Company are
similarly provided by the Company to the Trust.  One or more investors purchase
these Certificates; the proceeds from the sale of the certificates are then used
to purchase the Contracts from the Company.  In addition, the Company provides a
credit enhancement for the benefit of the investors in the form of an initial
cash deposit to a specific account ("Spread Account") held by the Trust.  The
Spread Account is required by the Servicing Agreement to be maintained at
specified levels.

   At the closing of each securitization, the Company removes from its
consolidated balance sheet the Contracts held for sale and adds to its
consolidated balance sheet (i) the cash received and (ii) the estimated fair
value of the portion of the Contracts retained from the securitizations
("Residuals"), which consist of (a) the cash held in the Spread Account and (b)
the net interest receivables ("NIRs").  NIRs represent the discounted cash flows
to be received by the Trust in the future.  The excess of the cash received and
the assets retained by the Company over the carrying value of the Contracts
sold, less transaction costs, equals the net gain on sale of Contracts recorded
by the Company.

   The Company is not aware of an active market for the purchase or sale of
residuals, and accordingly, the Company determines the estimated fair value of
the Residuals by discounting the expected excess cash flows released from the
Spread Account (the cash out method) using a discount rate which the Company
believes is commensurate with the risks involved.  The Company has utilized an
effective discount rate of approximately 14% on the estimated cash flows
released from the Spread Account to value the Residuals.

     The Company receives periodic base servicing fees for the servicing and
collection of the Contracts.  In addition, the Company is entitled to the cash
flows from the Trusts that represent collections on the Contracts in excess of
the amounts required to pay the Certificate principal and interest, the base
servicing fees and certain other 

                                      17
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

fees such as trustee and custodial fees. At the end of each collection period,
the aggregate cash collections from the Contracts are allocated first to the
base servicing fees and certain other fees such as trustee and custodial fees
for the period, then to the certificateholders for interest at the pass-through
rate on the certificates plus principal as defined in the Servicing Agreements.
If the amount of cash required for the above allocations exceeds the amount
collected during the collection period, the shortfall is drawn from the Spread
Account. If the cash collected during the period exceeds the amount necessary
for the above allocations, and there is no shortfall in the related Spread
Account, the excess is released to the Company. If the Spread Account balance is
not at the required credit enhancement level the excess cash collected is
retained in the Spread Account until the specified level is achieved. Cash held
in the various Spread Accounts is invested in either high quality liquid
investment securities, as specified in the securitization agreements or,
pursuant to certain securitization agreements, is used to make accelerated
principal paydowns on the Certificates to create excess collateral (over-
collateralization or OC account), which is held by the Trusts on behalf of the
Company as the Residual holder. The specified credit enhancement levels are
defined in the Servicing Agreements as the Spread Account balance, expressed
generally as a percentage of the current collateral principal balance. The
Spread Account includes both the cash and OC accounts.

     The annual percentage rate ("APR") on the Contracts is relatively high in
comparison to the pass through rate on the Certificates; accordingly, the
Residuals described above can be a significant asset of the Company.  In
determining the value of the Residuals described above, the Company must
estimate the future rates of prepayments, delinquencies, defaults and default
loss severity as they impact the amount and timing of the estimated cash flows.
The Company estimates prepayments by evaluating historical prepayment
performance of comparable Contracts and the impact of trends in the industry.
The Company has used a constant prepayment estimate of 15%. The Company
estimates defaults and default losses using available historical loss data for
comparable Contracts and the specific characteristics of the Contracts purchased
by the Company. In addition, the Company has used default losses of 11.5% to
13.5% as a percentage of the original principal balance over the life of the
Contracts.

      In future periods, the Company will recognize additional revenue from the
Residuals if the actual performance of the Contracts is higher than the original
estimate or the Company may increase the estimated fair value of the Residuals.
If the actual performance of the Contracts is lower than the original estimate,
then an adjustment to the carrying value of the Residuals may be required if the
estimated fair value of the Residuals is less than its carrying value.  
  
   For the year ended December 31, 1997 the Trusts received $31.7 million in
cash flows which was $255,000 in excess of the cash flows estimated to be
received by the Trusts during this period. As of December 31, 1997 the Trusts
had received cumulatively $4.2 million of cash flows in excess of the amounts
estimated for all the Company's securitizations.

   For the year ended December 31, 1997, initial deposits to Spread Accounts,
cash deposited to Spread Accounts and cash released from Spread Accounts was
$20.1 million, $31.7 million, and $15.8 million, respectively.  For the year
ended December 31, 1996, initial deposits to Spread Accounts, cash deposited to
Spread Accounts and cash released from Spread Accounts was $12.3 million, $18.8
million, and $17.9 million, respectively. For the nine-month period ended
December 31, 1995, initial deposits to Spread Accounts, cash deposited to Spread
Accounts and cash released from Spread Accounts was $4.9 million, $7.6 million,
and $7.7 million, respectively.

   During 1997 eight of the 21 Trusts incurred cumulative net losses as a
percentage of the original contract balance in excess of the predetermined
levels specified in the respective Securitization Agreements.  Accordingly,
pursuant to the Securitization Agreements, the specified credit enhancement
levels were increased.  As a result of this and certain cross collateralization
arrangements excess cash flows that would otherwise have been released to the

                                      18
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

Company were retained by the Spread Accounts to bring the balance of those
Spread Accounts up to the higher level.  Approximately $7.0 million of cash
flows were delayed and retained in the Spread Accounts as of December 31, 1997.

   The Year Ended December 31, 1997 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 1996

   Results Of Operations

   Revenue.  During the year ended December 31, 1997, revenue increased $28.1
million, or 55.0%, compared to the year ended December 31, 1996. Gain on sale of
Contracts, net, increased by $15.8 million, or 67.8%, and represented 49.3% of
total revenue for the year ended December 31, 1997. The increase in gain on sale
is largely due to the volume of Contracts which were sold in the period. During
the year ended December 31, 1997, the Company sold $573.3 million in Contracts,
compared to $341.0 million in the year ended December 31, 1996.

   Interest income increased by $3.5 million, or 17.7%, representing 29.7% of
total revenues for the year ended December 31, 1997. The increase is due to the
increase in the volume of contracts purchased and held for sale.  During the
year ended December 31, 1997, the Company purchased $632.1 million in Contracts
from Dealers, compared to $351.4 million in the year ended December 31, 1996.

   Servicing fees increased by $6.6 million, or 83.5%, and represented 18.3% of
total revenue.  The increase in servicing fees is due to the Company's continued
expansion of its Contract purchase, sale and servicing activities.  As of
December 31, 1997, the Company was earning servicing fees on 77,731 Contracts
approximating $830.9 million compared to 45,363 Contracts approximating $483.1
million as of December 31, 1996.  In addition to the $830.9 million in sold
Contracts on which servicing fees were earned, the Company was holding for sale
and servicing an additional $71.8 million in Contracts for an aggregate
servicing portfolio of $902.7 million. Amortization of NIRs increased by $7.2
million and represented 59.0% of residual interest income for the year ended
December 31, 1997 versus 38.0% for year  ended December 31, 1996.  The increase
is primarily due to the increase in the average age of the Contracts making up
the Company's servicing portfolio and consequently the increase in charge-offs
and corresponding reduction of residual interest income. The Company expects
these increases in the ratio of amortization of NIRs to Residual interest income
to continue until the size and average age of the servicing portfolio
stabilizes.

   Expenses.  During the year ended December 31, 1997, operating expenses
increased $19.9 million, or 72.3%, compared to the year ended December 31, 1996.
Employee costs increased by $7.0 million, or 78.0%, and represented 33.5% of
total operating expenses.  The increase is due to the addition of staff
necessary to accommodate the Company's growth and certain increases in salaries
of existing staff.  General and administrative expenses increased by $6.9
million, or 95.2% and represented 29.9% of total operating expenses.  Increases
in general and administrative expenses included increases in telecommunications,
stationery, credit reports and other related items as a result of increases in
the volume of purchasing and servicing of Contracts.

   Interest expense increased $3.4 million, or 58.9%, and represented 19.4% of
total operating expenses.  The increase is due in part to the interest paid on
an additional $35 million in subordinated debt securities issued by the Company
during 1997.  Interest expense was also impacted by the volume of Contracts held
for sale as well as by the Company's cost of borrowed funds.

   During the year ended December 31, 1997, the provision for losses on
Contracts held for sale increased by $1.3 million, or 48.4%, and represented
8.6% of total operating expenses.  The increase in the provision reflects
somewhat higher charge-off rates and a larger volume of Contracts held prior to
sale when compared to the year ended December 31, 1996.

   Marketing expenses increased by $170,789 or 10.2%, and represented 3.9% of
total expenses.  The increase is primarily due to the increase in printing,
travel, promotion and convention expenses. Fees paid to marketing 
representatives for their role in the submission of Contracts ultimately 
purchased by the Company are included as a component in gain on sale of 
Contracts, net.

   Occupancy expenses increased by $635,506 or 82.7%, and represented 3.0% of
total expenses.  Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $481,548 or
174.9%, and represented 1.6% of total expenses.  During 1997, the Company
established a satellite collection branch in Chesapeake, Virginia and leased
additional office space near 

                                      19
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

its headquarters in Irvine, California. This resulted in an increase in base 
rent expense of $906,066 for the year ended December 31, 1997.  The increase in
occupancy, depreciation and amortization is due primarily to the establishment
of this additional office space and the related furniture, fixtures and
equipment.  The Company has agreed to lease a new headquarters facility, which 
is currently under construction.  The lease will be for a ten-year term, with 
base rent of $1,904,400 for the first five years, and $2,097,600 for years six 
through ten.  In addition to base rent, the Company has agreed to pay property
taxes, maintenance, and other expenses of the property. Occupancy of the new
building can be expected to increase the Company's overall occupancy expenses in
the future beginning with commencement of the lease, which will commence upon
completion of the building, currently scheduled for September 1998.

   The results for the year ended December 31, 1997 include net earnings of $1.2
million from the Company's subsidiary Samco. For the year ended December 31,
1996, Samco incurred a net operating loss of $491,000.

   The results for the year ended December 31, 1997 also include net operating
losses of $11,000 from the Company's subsidiary LINC. For the year ended
December 31, 1996, LINC incurred a net operating loss of $324,000.

   In addition, the Company's results for the year ended December 31, 1997,
include $88,000 in net operating losses from the Company's subsidiary, CPS
Leasing, Inc., which was acquired in January 1997, and $849,000 in net earnings
from the Company's investment in 38% of NAB Asset Corp.

   The Company's effective tax rate was 42.0% for the year ended December 31, 
1997 and 40.5% for the year ended December 31, 1996.  See note 11 to the Notes 
to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Year Ended December 31, 1996 Compared to the Nine-Month Transition Period
Ended December 31, 1995

   The Company changed its fiscal year-end from March 31 to December 31,
effective with the nine-month period ended December 31, 1995. Accordingly,
readers should take into account that the following discussion compares figures
for a full twelve month year to a nine-month period.  The discussion below does
not attempt to explain, for each item discussed, the extent to which the
differing length of these periods has affected the figures.

   Revenue.  During the year ended December 31, 1996, revenue increased $26.9
million, or 111.1%, compared to the nine-month transition period ended December
31, 1995.  Gain on sale of Contracts, net, increased by $11.8 million, or
101.9%, and represented 45.6% of total revenue for the year ended December 31,
1996. The increase in gain on sale is largely due to the volume of Contracts
which were sold in the period. During the year ended December 31, 1996, the
Company sold $341.0 million in Contracts, compared to $155.7 million in the
nine-month transition period ended December 31, 1995.

   Servicing fees increased by $4.4 million, or 126.5%, and represented 15.4% of
total revenue.  The increase in servicing fees is due to the Company's continued
expansion of its Contract purchase, sale and servicing activities.  As of
December 31, 1996, the Company was earning servicing fees on 45,363 Contracts
approximating $483.1 million compared to 25,398 Contracts approximating $268.2
million as of December 31, 1995.  In addition to the $483.1 million in sold
Contracts on which servicing fees were earned, the Company was holding for sale
and servicing an additional $22.8 million in Contracts for an aggregate
servicing portfolio of $505.9 million.

   Interest income increased by $10.8 million, or 116.7%, representing 39.0% of
total revenues for the year ended December 31, 1996. The increase is due to the
increase in the volume of contracts held for sale, and the increase in the
amount of sold contracts.  During the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company
purchased $351.4 million in Contracts from Dealers, compared to $160.1 million
in the nine-month transition period ended December 31, 1995.

   Expenses.  During the year ended December 31, 1996, operating expenses
increased $15.9 million, or 137.1%, compared to the nine-month transition period
ended December 31, 1995.  Employee costs increased by $5.6 million, or 169.6%,
and represented 32.4% of total operating expenses.  The increase is due to the
addition of staff necessary to accommodate the Company's growth and certain
increases in salaries of existing staff.  General and administrative expenses
increased by $4.4 million, or 158.9% and represented 26.4% of total operating
expenses.  Increases in general and administrative expenses included increases
in telecommunications, stationery, credit reports and other related items as a
result of increases in the volume of purchasing and servicing of Contracts.
Additionally, general and administrative expenses increased by $595,000 as a
result of including the company's share of losses incurred by NAB Asset
Corporation, in which the Company made a 38% equity investment on June 6, 1996.

                                      20
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

   Marketing expenses increased by $447,564, or 36.4%, and represented 6.1% of
total expenses.  The increase is primarily due to the increase in the volume of
contracts purchased as marketing representatives are compensated directly in
proportion to the number of Contracts the Company purchases from Dealers
serviced by the marketing representative.  Additional increases in marketing
expense relate to other marketing expenses such as travel, promotion and
convention expenses.

   Interest expense increased $3.1 million, or 112.2%, and represented 21.0% of
total operating expenses.  The increase is primarily due to the interest paid on
the $20.0 million in subordinated debt securities issued on December 20, 1995.
Interest expense was also impacted by the volume of Contracts held for sale as
well as by the Company's cost of borrowed funds.

   During the year ended December 31, 1996, the provision for losses on
Contracts held for sale increased by $1.9 million, or 232.6%, and represented
10.0% of total operating expenses.  The increase in the provision reflects
somewhat higher charge-off rates and a larger volume of Contracts held prior to
sale when compared to the nine-month transition period ended December 31, 1995.

   The results for the year ended December 31, 1996 include net operating losses
of $491,000 from the Company's subsidiary Samco. The results for the year ended
December 31, 1996 also include net operating losses of $324,000 from the
Company's subsidiary LINC.

   The Company's effective tax rate was 40.5% for the year ended December 31, 
1996 and 40.2% for the nine months ended December 31, 1995.  See Note 11 to 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                      21

<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

Change Of Fiscal Year

   In 1995, the Company changed its fiscal year-end from March 31 to December
31. For that reason, the information contained herein compares the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1996 to the nine-month transition period ended December 31,
1995. The table below presents summary financial information for fiscal 1997 and
1996 and the twelve months ended December 31, 1995.  

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         12 Months Ended December 31,
                                                  ------------------------------------------
                                                     1997            1996            1995
                                                  ------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>              <C>             <C>
                                                    (In thousands, except per share data)
Revenues:
Gain on sale of contracts, net.................   $   39,133       $  23,321       $  13,719
Interest income................................       23,526          19,980          12,537
Servicing fees.................................       14,487           7,893           4,351
Other..........................................        2,194              --              --
                                                  ----------       ---------       ---------
                                                      79,340          51,194          30,607
 
Expenses:
Marketing, general and administrative and
   other expenses ............................        17,476           9,769           5,626
Employee costs.................................       15,875           8,921           3,888
Interest.......................................        9,184           5,781           3,842
Provision for losses...........................        4,089           2,756           1,008
Depreciation and amortization..................          757             275             209
                                                  ----------       ---------       ---------
 
                                                      47,381          27,502          14,573
                                                  ----------       ---------       ---------
 
Earnings before income taxes...................       31,959          23,692          16,034
 
Income taxes...................................       13,427           9,595           6,440
 
Net earnings...................................   $   18,532       $  14,097       $   9,594
                                                  ==========       =========       =========
 
Basic earnings per share.......................   $     1.29       $    1.05       $    0.86
Diluted earnings per share.....................   $     1.17       $    0.93       $    0.68
</TABLE>

Liquidity And Capital Resources

   The Company's primary sources of cash from operating activities include
servicing fees on portfolios of Contracts it has previously sold, cash flows
released from Spread Accounts, proceeds on the sales of Contracts in excess of
its recorded investment of the Contracts, borrower payments on Contracts held
for sale, and interest earned on Contracts held for sale.  The Company's primary
uses of cash include its normal operating expenses, the establishment and build-
up of Spread Accounts used for credit enhancement to their specified levels, and
income taxes.

   Net cash used in operating activities was $26.1 million during the year ended
December 31, 1997 compared to net cash used of $8.4 million during the year
ended December 31, 1996. Cash used for purchasing Contracts was $632.1 million,
an increase of $280.7 million, or 79.9%, over cash used for purchasing Contracts
in the year ended December 31, 1996.  Cash provided from the liquidation of
Contracts was $581.4 million, an increase of $234.9 million, or 67.8%, over cash
provided from liquidation of Contracts in the year ended December 31, 1996.

     The Company's cash requirements have been and will continue to be
significant.  The Securitization Agreements require the Company to make a
significant initial cash deposit, for purposes of credit enhancement, to the
Spread Accounts.  Excess cash flows from the securitized Contracts are also
deposited into the Spread Accounts until such time as the Spread Account balance
reaches its requisite level, which is computed as a specified percent of the
outstanding balance of the related asset-backed securities or collateral.

                                      22

<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

     During the year ended December 31, 1997, cash used for initial deposits to
Spread Accounts was $20.1 million, an increase of $7.8 million, or 63.5%, from
the amount of cash used for initial deposits to Spread Accounts in the year
ended December 31, 1996.  Cash deposited to Spread Accounts for the year ended
December 31, 1997, was $31.7 million, an increase of $12.9 million, or 68.6%,
over cash deposited to Spread Accounts in the year ended December 31, 1996.  The
cash deposited in Spread Accounts in 1997 includes $9.6 million of cash used to
pay down the senior certificates to create excess collateral in an over-
collateralization account.  Cash released from Spread Accounts for the year
ended December 31, 1997, was $15.8 million, a decrease of $2.1 million, or
11.7%, of cash released from Spread Accounts in the year ended December 31,
1996.  Changes in deposits to and releases from Spread Accounts are affected by
the relative size, seasoning and performance of the various pools of sold
Contracts that make up the Company's Servicing Portfolio.

     The Securitization Agreements call for the requisite levels of the various
Spread Accounts to increase if the related receivables experience delinquencies,
repossessions or net losses in excess of certain predetermined levels.  During
the Company's history, the predetermined levels have frequently been reached,
causing the requisite levels of certain Spread Accounts to be raised.  The
requisite levels of the Spread Accounts may be returned to the original lower
levels if the related receivables delinquency, repossession and net loss
performance of the related receivables is reduced below the pre-determined
levels.  In addition, on two occasions, the parties to the pertinent agreements
have made modifications that effectively raised the permissible delinquency,
repossession and net loss levels, thus resulting in Spread Accounts reverting to
their original requisite levels.  As of December 31, 1997, the Spread Accounts
for eight of the Company's 21 securitized pools were at higher than original
requisite levels due to delinquency, repossession or net loss performance.  Such
Spread Account balances therefore included approximately $7.0 million more than
would have been required at the original requisite levels.

                                      23
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997


     The table below documents the Company's history of Contract
securitizations, comprising sales to 21 securitization trusts.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                Structured Contract Securitizations
                    Securitized
Period Funded      Dollar Amount          Ratings(1)           Rating Agency                         Pool Name
- -------------      -------------         -----------           -------------              --------------------------------
                   (In Thousands)
<S>                <C>                   <C>                   <C>                        <C>
April 1993          $    4,990                 A               Duff & Phelps              Alton Grantor Trust 1993-1
May 1993                 3,933                 A               Duff & Phelps              Alton Grantor Trust 1993-1
June 1993                3,467                 A               Duff & Phelps              Alton Grantor Trust 1993-1
July 1993                5,575                 A               Duff & Phelps              Alton Grantor Trust 1993-2
August 1993              3,336                 A               Duff & Phelps              Alton Grantor Trust 1993-2
September 1993           3,578                 A               Duff & Phelps              Alton Grantor Trust 1993-2
October 1993             1,921                 A               Duff & Phelps              Alton Grantor Trust 1993-2
November 1993            1,816                 A               Duff & Phelps              Alton Grantor Trust 1993-3
December 1993            6,694                 A               Duff & Phelps              Alton Grantor Trust 1993-3
January 1994             1,998                 A               Duff & Phelps              Alton Grantor Trust 1993-3
March 1994              20,787                 A               Duff & Phelps              Alton Grantor Trust 1993-4
June 1994               24,592              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1994-1
September 1994          28,916              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1994-2
October 1994            13,136              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1994-3
December 1994           28,893              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1994-4
February 1995           20,084              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1995-1
June 1995               49,290              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1995-2
September 1995          45,009              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1995-3
September 1995           2,369                 BB              S&P                        CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1995-3
December 1995           53,634              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1995-4
December 1995            2,823                 BB              S&P                        CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1995-4
March 1996              63,747              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1996-1
March 1996               3,355                 BB              S&P                        CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1996-1
June 1996 (2)           84,456              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                Fasco Auto Grantor Trust 1996-1
June 1996                4,445                 BB              S&P                        Fasco Auto Grantor Trust 1996-1
September 1996          87,523              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1996-2
September 1996           4,606                 BB              S&P                        CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1996-2
December 1996           88,215              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1996-3
December 1996            4,643                 BB              S&P                        CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1996-3
March 1997              97,211              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1997-1
March 1997               5,116                 BB              S&P                        CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1997-1
May 1997               113,394              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1997-2
May 1997                 5,968                 BB              S&P                        CPS Auto Grantor Trust 1997-2
August 1997(3)         142,500              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Receivables Trust 1997-3
August 1997              7,499                 BB              S&P                        CPS Auto Receivables Trust 1997-3
October 1997           100,568              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Receivables Trust 1997-4
October 1997             5,293                 BB              S&P                        CPS Auto Receivables Trust 1997-4
December 1997           90,925              Aaa/AAA            Moody's/S&P                CPS Auto Receivables Trust 1997-5
December 1997            4,781                 BB              S&P                        CPS Auto Receivables Trust 1997-5
                   -----------
                   $ 1,241,086
                   ===========
</TABLE>

                                      24
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

(1)  Commencing with the securitization completed on June 28, 1994, the
     principal and interest due on the asset-backed securities issued by the
     various grantor trusts have been guaranteed by Financial Security Assurance
     Inc. ("FSA"), enabling the issuer to obtain Aaa/AAA ratings for the asset-
     backed securities issued in such transactions.  See "Business -- Purchase
     and Sale of Contracts -- Securitization and Sale of Contracts to
     Institutional Investors."
(2)  Commencing with the securitization completed on June 27, 1996, asset-backed
     securities with Aaa/AAA ratings have been sold through public offerings
     pursuant to registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange
     Commission.
(3)  Commencing with the securitization completed on August 15, 1997, the
     Company began using an "owner trust" structure rather than the "grantor
     trust" structure that had been used on all previous securitizations.

   The Company funds its daily purchases of Contracts by use of two warehouse
lines of credit.  Borrowings under those lines of credit rise as the Company
purchases Contracts and then are substantially repaid when the Company completes
a Contract securitization.  Such securitizations and substantial repayments have
occurred at least once each quarter during the past three fiscal years.

   Under one of the two warehouse lines of credit, the Company borrows from
Redwood Receivables Corporation ("Redwood"), with the loans funded by commercial
paper issued by Redwood and secured by Contracts pledged periodically by the
Company.  A standby line of credit with General Electric Capital Corporation
("GECC") is available if, but only if, Redwood does not provide funding as
described above.  It has never been necessary to draw on the standby line, which
is secured by Contracts and substantially all the other assets of the Company.
The Redwood/GECC line has an aggregate maximum lending amount of $100.0 million.
The maximum amount outstanding under the Redwood/GECC line in 1997 was $100.0
million and the average was $51.3 million.  The Company's other warehouse line
of credit was opened in December 1997.  Under this second line of credit, an
affiliate of First Union Capital Markets lends to the Company, with the loans
funded by commercial paper issued by that affiliate, and secured by Contracts
pledged periodically by the Company. The First Union line has a maximum lending
amount of $150.0 million.  Interest under each line is at a variable rate,
indexed to prevailing rates for commercial paper. The two lines together had an
outstanding balance of $61.7 million at December 31, 1997, as compared to $13.3
million under the Redwood/GECC line alone at December 31, 1996.  The Company
uses the warehouse lines of credit in tandem, pledging specific Contracts to
each lender alternatively.

   In August 1997, to supplement its working capital resources the Company
entered into a line of credit agreement (the "Stanwich Line"), with Stanwich
Financial Services Corp. ("SFSC"). SFSC is a financial services company that was
owned by Stanwich Holdings, Inc. ("Stanwich Holdings") at the time. Charles E.
Bradley, Sr., Charles E. Bradley, Jr., and John G. Poole, who are officers and
directors of the Company, collectively owned 92.5% of the common stock of
Stanwich Holdings at the time of the transaction, and Mr. Bradley, Sr., was the
president and a director of Stanwich Holdings. Under the Stanwich Line, SFSC
agreed to lend up to $25 million to the Company from time to time upon request,
through December 19, 1997. Any amount outstanding at December 31, 1997, would be
due at that time. Borrowings under the Stanwich Line bore interest at the rate
of 10% per annum, and the Company paid a $250,000 (one percent) commitment fee
to SFSC in connection with opening the line of credit. The Company drew the full
amount of the line at its inception, none of which remained outstanding at
December 31, 1997. NAB Asset Corp. purchased all outstanding stock of Stanwich
Holdings on March 2, 1998.

   The Company funds the increase in its servicing portfolio through off balance
sheet securitization transactions, as discussed above, and funds its other
capital needs with cash from operations and with the proceeds from the issuance
of long-term debt.  During the year ended December 31, 1997, the Company
completed five securitization transactions, issued $20 million of 10.50%
Participating Equity Notes due 2004 ("PENs") and borrowed $15 million in an
unsecured related party loan due 2004 ("RPL").

   The PENs are long-term subordinated debt instruments issued in a registered
public offering in April 1997. After deduction of underwriting commissions, the
proceeds of that offering were $18.8 million. The PENs have a 10.5% fixed coupon
rate of interest per annum, payable monthly beginning May 15, 1997. The fixed
interest rate payable on the PENs may be considered comparable to the rising
interest rate payable on the $20 million of debt securities (Rising Interest
Subordinated Redeemable Securities or "RISRS") that the Company issued in
December 1995: the RISRS interest rate was 10.25% per annum throughout 1997 and
will rise by .25% per annum in each
                                      25
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

calendar year through 2004, and then by an additional .50% per annum for the
final year prior to maturity on December 31, 2005. The RISRS may be redeemed
without premium at any time after January 1, 2000, and the PENs may be redeemed
without premium at any time after April 15, 2000. The PENs are also partially
convertible into equity. At maturity or earlier redemption of the PENs, the
holders thereof will have the option to convert 25% of the principal amount into
common stock of the Company, at a conversion rate of $10.15 per share.

   The RPL is long-term subordinated debt representing $15 million borrowed in
June 1997 from SFSC.  The RPL has a fixed rate of interest of 9% per annum,
payable monthly beginning July 1997.  The Company may pre-pay the RPL without
penalty at any time on or after June 12, 2000.  At maturity or early repayment
of the RPL, the holder thereof will have the option to convert 20% of the
principal amount into common stock of the Company, at a conversion rate of
$11.86 per share.  In conjunction with the RPL, in May 1997, the Company entered
into two additional transactions; (i) the Company purchased $14.5 million of
preferred stock of Stanwich Holdings, with dividends cumulative at the rate of
9% per annum and redeemable at an aggregate price of $14.6 million, plus accrued
dividends, and (ii) the Company borrowed $14.5 million with interest at 8% per
annum under a 60-day related party loan from SFSC. In August 1997, the Company
received $14.9 million in redemption of the preferred stock of Stanwich Holdings
and repaid the 60-day related party loan in its entirety.

   The Company anticipates that the proceeds from the PENs, the RPL, funds
available under the two warehouse lines, proceeds from the sale of Contracts and
cash from operations will be sufficient to satisfy the Company's estimated cash
requirements for the next twelve months, assuming that the Company continues to
have a means by which to sell its warehoused Contracts.  If for any reason the
Company is unable to sell its Contracts, or if the Company's available cash
otherwise proves to be insufficient to fund operations (because of future
changes in the industry, general economic conditions, unanticipated increases in
expenses, or other factors), the Company may be required to seek additional
funding.

   In addition to capital required for the Company's existing business and its
growth, the Company may require additional capital resources if it should choose
to expand its operations by acquisition of other businesses.  Although the
Company has no commitments to make any acquisition, it does regularly review
proposals to make acquisitions in the financial services field.

   There can be no assurance that such additional financing, if required, will
be available to the Company, nor can there be any assurance as to the cost of
any such financing that may be available.  The Company is exploring the
possibility of issuing additional debt to provide additional capital, but has no
commitment to do so.

   In January 1997, the Company acquired a company engaged in the equipment
leasing business.  Any material growth in that subsidiary's business will
require significant capital resources, to allow that subsidiary to purchase
equipment for lease.  In March 1997, the leasing company obtained a $5 million
line of credit to purchase equipment for lease.


                                      26
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

Forward-Looking Statements

   The descriptions of the Company's business and activities set forth in this
report and in other past and future reports and announcements by the Company may
contain forward-looking statements and assumptions regarding the future
activities and results of operations of the Company.  Actual results may be
adversely affected by various factors including the following:  increases in
unemployment or other changes in domestic economic conditions which adversely
affect the sales of new and used automobiles and may result in increased
delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on Contracts; adverse economic conditions
in geographic areas in which the Company's business is concentrated; changes in
interest rates, adverse changes in the market for securitized receivables pools,
or a substantial lengthening of the Company's warehousing period, each of which
could restrict the Company's ability to obtain cash for new Contract
originations and purchases; increases in the amounts required to be set aside in
Spread Accounts or to be expended for other forms of credit enhancement to
support future securitizations; the reduction or unavailability of warehouse
lines of credit which the Company uses to accumulate Contracts for
securitization transactions; increased competition from other automobile finance
sources; reduction in the number and amount of acceptable Contracts submitted to
the Company by its automobile Dealer network; changes in government regulations
affecting consumer credit; and other economic, financial and regulatory factors
beyond the Company's control.  A further discussion of factors that may cause
actual results to differ, or may otherwise have an adverse effect on the
Company's financial condition or results of operations, is contained in the
exhibit to this report titled "risk factors," incorporated herein by this
reference.

New Accounting Pronouncements

     The Company has adopted in 1997 and will adopt in future periods new 
accounting pronouncements.  For information on how adoption has and will affect 
the Financial Statements, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements.

Year 2000

     The Company has performed an examination of its major software applications
to ensure that each system is prepared to accommodate the year 2000. This
examination included a review of program code which is maintained by the Company
as well as obtaining confirmation from outside software vendors that their
products are year 2000 compliant. In addition, the Company has communicated with
firms with whom it does significant business to determine their readiness for
the year 2000. The Company believes that based on their current examination that
the year 2000 will not have a material adverse impact on the Company's
operations. However, there can be no assurance that software incompatibility
with the year 2000 on the part of the Company or any of its significant
suppliers will not have a material adverse effect on the Company.

                                      27
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

   This report includes Consolidated Financial Statements, Notes thereto and an
Independent Auditors' Report, at the pages indicated below. Certain unaudited
quarterly financial information is included in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, as Note 15.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                                                                             Page
                                                                                           Reference
<S>                                                                                        <C>
Independent Auditors' Report............................................................     F-1
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1997 and 1996............................     F-2
Consolidated Statements of Earnings  for the years ended December 31, 1997
 and 1996, and the nine-month period ended December 31, 1995............................     F-3
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December 31,
 1997 and 1996, and the nine-month period ended December 31, 1995.......................     F-4
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 1997 and
 1996, and the nine-month period ended December 31, 1995................................     F-5
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended December 31, 1997 and
 1996, and the nine-month period ended December 31, 1995................................     F-6
</TABLE>

Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None

                                    PART III
                                        
Item 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Information regarding directors of the registrant is incorporated by reference
to the registrant's definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of
shareholders to be held in 1998 (the "1998 Proxy Statement"). The 1998 Proxy
Statement will be filed not later than April 30, 1997.   Information regarding
executive officers of the registrant appears in Part I of this report, and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Incorporated by reference to the 1998 Proxy Statement.

Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Incorporated by reference to the 1998 Proxy Statement.

Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Incorporated by reference to the 1998 Proxy Statement.

                                      28
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997


                                    PART IV
                                        
Item 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  The financial statements listed above under the caption "Index to Financial
     Statements" are filed as a part of this report.  No financial statement
     schedules are filed as the required information is inapplicable or the
     information is presented in the consolidated financial statements or the
     related notes.  Separate financial statements of the Company have been
     omitted as the Company is primarily an operating company and its
     subsidiaries are wholly owned and do not have minority equity interests
     and/or indebtedness to any person other than the Company in amounts which
     together exceed 5% of the total consolidated assets as shown by the most
     recent year-end consolidated balance sheet.

The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:

  3.1  Restated Articles of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to exhibit
filed with registrant's report on Form 10-KSB dated December 31, 1995)

  3.2  Amended and Restated Bylaws.  (filed herewith)

  4.1  Indenture re Rising Interest Subordinated Redeemable Securities ("RISRs")
(incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with registrant's report on Form 8-K
filed December 26, 1995)

  4.2  First Supplemental Indenture re RISRs (incorporated by reference to
exhibit filed with registrant's report on Form 8-K filed December 26, 1995)

  4.3  Form of Indenture re 10.50% Participating Equity Notes ("PENs")
(incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with registrant's registration
statement on Form S-3, no. 333-21289)

  4.4  Form of First Supplemental Indenture re PENs (incorporated by reference
to exhibit filed with registrant's registration statement on Form S-3, no.333-
21289)

  10.1  1991 Stock Option Plan & forms of Option Agreements thereunder
(incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with registrant's report on Form 10-
KSB dated March 31, 1994)

  10.2  1997 Long-Term Incentive Stock Plan (filed herewith)

  10.3  Purchase Agreement relating to PENs. (incorporated by reference to
exhibit filed with registrant's registration statement on Form S-3 no. 333-
21289)

  10.4  Lease Agreement, First Amendment to Lease, Assignment and Assumption of
Lease (incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with registrant's registration
statement on Form S-1, no. 33-49770)

  10.5  Amendment #2 to Lease Agreement, First Amendment to Lease and Assignment
and Assumption of Lease.  (incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with
registrant's report on Form 10-KSB, dated March 31, 1995.

  10.6  Lease Agreement re Chesapeake Collection Facility. (incorporated by
reference to exhibit filed with registrant's report on Form 10-K dated December
31, 1996)

  10.7  Consulting Agreement.  (incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with
registrant's report on Form 10-KSB dated December 31, 1995)

  10.8  Agreement to Build and Lease Headquarters Building.  (incorporated by
reference to exhibit filed with registrant's report on Form 10-Q dated September
30, 1997)

  10.9  Lease of Headquarters Building.  (incorporated by reference to exhibit
filed with registrant's report on Form 10-Q dated September 30, 1997)

  10.10  Amended and Restated Motor Vehicle Installment Contract Loan and
Security Agreement re Redwood Warehouse Line. (incorporated by reference to
exhibit filed with registrant's report on Form 10-KSB dated December 31, 1995)

                                      29
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

  10.11  The Receivables Funding and Servicing Agreement re Redwood Warehouse
Line. (incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with registrant's report on
Form 10-KSB dated December 31, 1995)

  10.12  Partially Convertible Subordinated Note. (incorporated by reference to
exhibit filed with registrant's report on Form 10-Q dated September 30, 1997)

  10.13  Registration Rights Agreement.  (incorporated by reference to exhibit
filed with registrant's report on Form 10-Q dated September 30, 1997)

  10.14  Receivables Funding and Servicing Agreement relating to First Union
Warehouse Line (filed herewith)

  10.15  Receivables Transfer Agreement relating to First Union Warehouse Line
(filed herewith)

  10.16  Line of Credit Note Issued to Stanwich Financial Services Corp. (filed
herewith)

  21.1   Subsidiaries of the Company. (filed herewith)

  23.1   Consent of independent auditors. (filed herewith)

  27     Financial Data Schedule. (filed herewith)

  99.1   Cautionary Statement. (filed herewith)

(b)      REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

During the last quarter of the fiscal year ended December 1997, three reports on
Form 8-K were filed by the Company.  Each such Form 8-K reports (i) related to
one of the Company's securitization transactions, (ii) reported under Item 5
thereof that certain exhibits were filed, and (iii) included such exhibits
pursuant to Item 7 thereof.  No financial statements were filed with any of such
reports on Form 8-K.  The first of the three reports, dated October 14, 1997 and
filed October 17, 1997 related to the Company's October 1997 securitization
transaction.  The second report, dated August 19, 1997 and filed November 12,
1997, related to the Company's August 1997 securitization transaction.  The
third report, filed December 4, 1997 and dated December 2, 1997, related to the
Company's December 1997 securitization transaction.         


                                      30
<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

SIGNATURES

 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
(Registrant)

By:  /s/ Charles E. Bradley, Jr.                 Date:  March 9, 1998
     ----------------------------------                                     
     Charles E. Bradley, Jr., President


 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

<TABLE>
 
<S>                                                              <C>
 
By:  /s/ Charles E. Bradley, Sr.                                 Date:  March 9, 1998
     ------------------------------------------------------
     Charles E. Bradley, Sr.
     Chairman of the Board
 
By:  /s/ Charles E. Bradley, Jr.                                 Date:  March 9, 1998
     ------------------------------------------------------
     Charles E. Bradley, Jr., Director, President and
     Chief Executive Officer  (Principal Executive Officer)
 
By:  /s/ William B. Roberts                                      Date:  March 9, 1998
     ------------------------------------------------------
     William B. Roberts, Director
 
By:  /s/ John G. Poole                                           Date:  March 9, 1998
     ------------------------------------------------------
     John G. Poole, Director
 
By:  /s/ Thomas L. Chrystie                                      Date:  March 9, 1998
     ------------------------------------------------------
     Thomas L. Chrystie, Director
 
By:  /s/ Robert A. Simms                                         Date:  March 9, 1998
     ------------------------------------------------------
     Robert A. Simms, Director
 
By:  /s/ Jeffrey P. Fritz                                        Date:  March 9, 1998
     ------------------------------------------------------
     Jeffrey P. Fritz, Chief Financial Officer
     (Principal Financial Officer)
 
By:  /s/ James L. Stock                                          Date:  March 9, 1998
     ------------------------------------------------------
     James L. Stock, Controller
     (Principal Accounting Officer)
</TABLE> 


                                      31
<PAGE>
 
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Board of Directors
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.:

   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Consumer
Portfolio Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and
the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' equity and cash
flows for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, and for the nine-month
period ended December 31, 1995.  These consolidated financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

   We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

   In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Consumer
Portfolio Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years ended
December 31, 1997 and 1996, and for the nine-month period ended December 31,
1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.


                                    KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP


Orange County, California
February 18, 1998

                                      F-1
<PAGE>

              CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          Consolidated Balance Sheets

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     December 31,      December 31,
                                                                     ------------      ------------
                                                                         1997             1996    
                                                                     ------------      ------------
                   ASSETS (note 12)                               
<S>                                                                  <C>              <C> 
Cash                                                                 $  1,745,200      $    153,958 
Contracts held for sale (note 2)                                       68,271,200        21,656,773 
Servicing fees receivable                                               5,424,645         3,086,194 
Residual interest in securitizations (note 3)                         124,615,504        67,251,933 
Furniture and equipment, net (note 7)                                   3,128,085           629,774 
Taxes receivable (note 11)                                              1,527,861           610,913 
Deferred financing costs (note 12)                                      1,840,018           943,222 
Investment in unconsolidated affiliates (note 8)                        3,892,224         2,263,768 
Related party receivables (note 8)                                      7,295,400         1,308,194 
Other assets (note 8)                                                   8,155,107         4,041,691 
                                                                     ------------      ------------
                                                                     $225,895,244      $101,946,420 
                                                                     ============      ============
                                                                  
         LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY                     
Liabilities                                                       
Accounts payable & accrued expenses                                  $ 10,426,880      $  1,697,051 
Warehouse lines of credit (note 12)                                    61,665,583        13,264,585 
Deferred tax liability (note 11)                                       13,142,843         7,027,251 
Capital lease obligation (note 10)                                      1,492,122            --
Notes payable (note 12)                                                 1,505,593            --
Subordinated debt (note 12)                                            40,000,000        23,000,000
Related party debt (note 8)                                            15,055,431            --    
                                                                     ------------      ------------ 
                                                                      143,288,452        44,988,887
                                                                                      
Shareholders' Equity (notes 9 and 12)                                                 
Preferred stock, $1 par value; authorized                                             
  5,000,000 shares; none issued                                            --                --  
Series A preferred stock, $1 par value;                                               
  authorized 5,000,000 shares; 3,415,000                                              
  shares issued; none outstanding                                          --                -- 
Common stock, no par value; authorized                                                
  30,000,000 shares; 15,210,042 and 13,779,242                                        
  shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 1997                                  
  and December 31, 1996, respectively                                  42,261,410        34,644,314 
Note receivable from exercise of options                                 (500,000)           --
Retained earnings                                                      40,845,382        22,313,219    
                                                                     ------------     -------------
                                                                       82,606,792        56,957,533  
Commitments and contingencies (notes 2, 3, 5, 10, 11, 12 and 13)                      
                                                                     ------------      ------------
                                                                     $225,895,244      $101,946,420  
                                                                     ============      ============
</TABLE> 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

                                      F-2



<PAGE>

              CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      Consolidated Statements of Earnings

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Nine Months Ended
                                           Year Ended December 31,           December 31,
                                        ------------------------------    ------------------
                                            1997              1996              1995     
                                        ------------      ------------    ------------------
<S>                                     <C>               <C>                <C>
Revenues:                                                                                
Gain on sale of contracts,                                            
 net (notes 3 and 4)                     $39,133,475       $23,321,015       $11,549,413
Interest income (note 5)                  23,525,579        19,979,775         9,220,397 
Servicing fees                            14,487,429         7,893,013         3,484,903 
Other (note 8)                             2,193,106             --                --    
                                        ------------      ------------      ------------
                                          79,339,589        51,193,803        24,254,713 
                                        ------------      ------------      ------------
Expenses:                                                                                
Employee costs                            15,875,404         8,920,521         3,309,139 
General and administrative (note 8)       14,146,982         7,247,011         2,799,599 
Interest                                   9,184,463         5,780,529         2,724,403 
Provision for credit losses (note 2)       4,088,504         2,755,803           828,458 
Marketing                                  1,849,463         1,678,674         1,231,110 
Occupancy                                  1,404,027           768,521           267,641 
Depreciation and amortization                756,896           275,348           174,555 
Related party consulting fees                                         
 (note 8)                                     75,000            75,000           262,500
                                        ------------      ------------      ------------
                                          47,380,739        27,501,407        11,597,405
                                        ------------      ------------      ------------
Earnings before income taxes              31,958,850        23,692,396        12,657,308 
                                                                                         
Income taxes (note 11)                    13,426,687         9,595,020         5,082,186 
                                                                                         
                                        ------------      ------------      ------------
Net earnings                             $18,532,163       $14,097,376       $ 7,575,122 
                                        ============      ============      ============
Earnings per share (note 1):                                                             
  Basic                                  $      1.29       $      1.05       $      0.65 
  Diluted                                $      1.17       $      0.93       $      0.52 
                                                                                         
Number of shares used in computing                                                       
 earnings per share (note 1):                                                            
  Basic                                   14,332,008        13,489,241        11,582,625 
  Diluted                                 16,052,703        15,329,582        14,803,592 
</TABLE> 


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-3
<PAGE>

              CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                          Series A                                     Note Receivable
                                        Preferred Stock           Common Stock          from Exercise       Retained
                                       Shares     Amount       Shares       Amount        of Options        Earnings   Total
                                     ---------  ----------    ---------  ------------- ---------------- ----------- ------------
<S>                                  <C>        <C>           <C>        <C>           <C>              <C>         <C> 

Balance at March 31, 1995               --      $    --       10,820,800  $26,353,637  $    --          $   640,721   $26,994,358
Common stock issued upon exercise
     of warrants (note 9)               --           --          100,534      301,602       --                --          301,602
Common stock issued upon exercise
     of options (note 9)                --           --        1,843,974    4,610,000       --                --        4,610,000
Common stock issued upon conversion
     of debt (note 12)                  --           --          533,334    2,000,000       --               --         2,000,000
Net earnings                            --           --           --           --           --            7,575,122     7,575,122
                                   ----------   ----------    ----------  -----------  ----------       -----------  -----------
Balance at December 31, 1995            --           --       13,298,642   33,265,239       --            8,215,843    41,481,082

Common stock issued upon exercise
     of warrants (note 9)               --           --           86,000      258,000       --              --            258,000
Common stock issued upon exercise
     of options (note 9)                --           --          394,600    1,121,075       --              --          1,121,075
Net earnings                            --           --           --           --           --           14,097,376    14,097,376
                                   ----------   ----------    ----------  -----------  ----------       -----------   -----------
Balance at December 31, 1996                                  13,779,242   34,644,314       --           22,313,219    56,957,533

Common stock issued upon exercise
     of warrants (note 9)               --           --           14,000       42,000       --              --             42,000
Common stock issued upon exercise
     of options (note 9)                --           --          936,800    2,464,300   (500,000)           --          1,964,300
Common stock issued upon conversion
     of debt (note 12)                  --           --          480,000    3,000,000       --              --          3,000,000
Income tax benefit from exercise of
    options (note 11)                   --           --           --        2,110,796       --              --          2,110,796
Net earnings                            --           --           --           --           --           18,532,163    18,532,163
                                   ----------   ----------    ----------  -----------  ----------      ------------   -----------
Balance at December 31, 1997            --      $    --       15,210,042  $42,261,410  $(500,000)       $40,845,382   $82,606,792
                                   ==========   ==========    ==========  ===========  ==========       ===========   ===========


</TABLE> 










See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements


                                      F-4
<PAGE>

              CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                Nine-Month
                                                                                               Period Ended
                                                                Year Ended December 31,        December 31,    
                                                            ------------------------------    -------------
                                                                 1997             1996             1995    
                                                            -------------    -------------    -------------
<S>                                                         <C>              <C>              <C> 
Cash flows from operating activities:
   Net earnings                                             $  18,532,163    $  14,097,376    $   7,575,122    
   Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash                                         
    used in operating activities:                                                            
     Depreciation and amortization                                756,896          275,348          174,555       
     Amortization of net interest receivables                  13,309,995        6,119,219        2,023,938    
     Amortization of deferred financing costs                     268,155          157,208            5,265        
     Provision for credit losses                                4,088,504        2,755,803          828,458     
     NIR gains recognized                                     (34,767,175)     (18,665,429)      (7,977,828)  
     Loss on sale of fixed asset                                   13,449          --                --
     (Gain) loss on investment in unconsolidated affiliates      (912,000)         595,352           --            
     Gain on redemption of related party preferred stock         (145,000)         --                --
     Changes in operating assets and liabilities:                                            
       Purchases of contracts held for sale                  (632,096,553)    (351,350,070)    (160,150,781) 
       Liquidation of contracts held for sale                 581,393,622      346,486,336      156,890,700   
       Servicing fees receivable                               (2,338,451)      (1,631,487)        (658,385)   
       Initial deposits to spread accounts                    (20,064,059)     (12,270,168)      (4,931,325)   
       Deposits to spread accounts and 
        overcollateralization accounts                        (31,688,820)     (18,790,430)      (7,553,086)  
       Release of cash from spread accounts                    15,846,488       17,940,919        7,693,839     
       Deferred taxes                                           6,115,592        5,383,997        2,199,068 
       Other assets                                            (2,146,431)      (2,053,460)        (425,695)   
       Accounts payable and accrued expenses                    8,268,594          355,146         (131,382)    
       Warehouse line of credit                                48,400,998        5,764,585      (12,230,389)   
       Taxes payable/receivable                                 1,032,196       (3,522,997)      (1,865,464)
                                                            -------------    -------------    -------------
          Net cash used in operating activities               (26,131,837)      (8,352,752)     (18,533,390)
                                                                                             
Cash flows from investing activities:                                                        
   Proceeds from sale of subordinated certificates                --             2,022,220           --
   Related party receivables                                   (9,987,206)      (1,308,194)          --
   Repayment of related party receivables                       4,000,000          --                --
   Purchase of related party preferred stock                  (14,500,000)         --                --
   Proceeds from sale of related party preferred stock         14,645,000          --                --
   Investment in unconsolidated affiliate                        (716,456)      (4,277,407)          --           
   Purchases of furniture and equipment                        (1,031,561)        (356,587)        (263,496)   
   Payments received on subordinated certificates                 --               152,446          118,764       
   Purchase of subsidiary, net of cash acquired                    92,336          --                --           
                                                            -------------    -------------    -------------
          Net cash used in investing activities                (7,497,887)      (3,767,522)        (144,732)   
                                                                                             
Cash flows from financing activities:                                                        
   Issuance of promissory notes                                   --               --             2,000,000            
   Issuance of notes to related party                          54,500,000          --             2,000,000
   Issuance of subordinated debt                               20,000,000          --            20,000,000  
   Repayment of capital lease obligations                        (165,955)         --                --
   Repayment of notes payable                                      (9,859)         --            (2,000,000)
   Repayment of related party debt                            (39,944,569)         --            (2,000,000)     
   Payment of financing costs                                  (1,164,951)         --            (1,105,695)
   Exercise of options and warrants                             2,006,300        1,379,075        4,911,602     
                                                            -------------    -------------    -------------
          Net cash provided by financing activities            35,220,966        1,379,075       23,805,907     
                                                            -------------    -------------    -------------
Increase (decrease) in cash                                     1,591,242      (10,741,199)       5,127,785          
Cash at beginning of period                                       153,958       10,895,157        5,767,372       
                                                            -------------    -------------    -------------
Cash at end of period                                       $   1,745,200    $     153,958    $  10,895,157     
                                                            =============    =============    =============
                                                                                             
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:                                            
   Cash paid during the period for:                                                          
        Interest                                            $   8,475,925    $   5,213,912    $   2,542,718
        Income taxes                                        $   6,203,740    $   6,679,000    $   4,759,050

Supplemental disclosure of non-cash investing and                                            
 financing activities:                                                                    
      Issuance of common stock upon conversion of debt      $   3,000,000    $     --         $   2,000,000
      Investment in subordinated certificates               $     --         $     --         $   4,779,166
      Note receivable from exercise of options              $     500,000    $     --         $      --
      Income tax benefit from exercise of options           $   2,110,796    $     --         $      --
      Furniture and equipment acquired through                                               
       capital leases                                       $   1,658,077    $     --         $      --
      Purchase of CPS Leasing, Inc.                                                          
          Assets acquired                                   $   2,718,338    $     --         $      --
          Liabilities assumed                                  (2,638,338)         --                --
                                                            -------------    -------------    -------------
          Cash paid to acquire business                            80,000          --                --
          Less: cash acquired                                    (172,336)                   
                                                            -------------    -------------    -------------
          Net cash received upon acquisition                $     (92,336)   $     --         $      --
                                                            =============    =============    =============
</TABLE> 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

                                      F-5

<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                  Years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, and
                   nine-month period ended December 31, 1995


(1)  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

     Description of Business

     Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc. ("CPS") was incorporated in California on
March 8, 1991.  CPS and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") engage
primarily in the business of purchasing, selling and servicing retail automobile
installment sale contracts ("Contracts") originated by dealers located
throughout the United States.  The Company specializes in Contracts with
borrowers who generally would not be expected to qualify for traditional
financing such as that provided by commercial banks or automobile manufacturers'
captive finance companies.  The Company's headquarters and principal collection
facilities are located in Irvine, California and a satellite collection facility
is located in Chesapeake, Virginia.  The Company has purchased Contracts from
dealers in California since its inception.  During the year ended December 31,
1997, Contract purchases relating to borrowers who resided in California totaled
18.1% of all Contract purchases.  Moreover, at December 31, 1997, borrowers who
resided in California made up 23.9% of the servicing portfolio of Contracts
serviced by the Company.  A significant adverse change in the economic climate
in California or other states could result in fewer Contracts available for sale
and potentially less revenue.

     Principles of Consolidation

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Consumer
Portfolio Services, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, CPS Marketing Corp.,
Alton Receivables Corp. ("Alton"), CPS Receivables Corp. ("CPSRC"), CPS Funding
Corp. ("CPSFC") and CPS Warehouse Corp. ("CPSWC"). Alton, CPSRC, CPSFC and CPSWC
are limited purpose corporations formed to accommodate the structures under
which the Company purchases and sells its Contracts.  CPS Marketing Corp.
employs marketing representatives who solicit business from dealers.  The
consolidated financial statements also include the accounts of SAMCO Acceptance
Corp., LINC Acceptance Company, LLC, and CPS Leasing Inc., each of which are 80%
owned subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany balances and transactions have
been eliminated in consolidation.  Investments in unconsolidated affiliates
which are not majority owned are reported using the equity method.  The excess
of the cost of the stock over the Company's share of the net assets at the
acquisition date ("goodwill") is being amortized over a period of up to fifteen
years.

     Prior to December 11, 1995, the Company was a majority-owned subsidiary of
CPS Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation  ("Holdings").  In September 1995,
the shareholders of the Company approved the merger of Holdings into the
Company.  The merger was completed on December 11, 1995, and had no effect on
the Company's consolidated financial statements.   Prior to the merger, Charles
E. Bradley, Sr., the Company's Chairman of the Board, was the principal
shareholder of Holdings.

     Contracts Held for Sale

     Contracts held for sale include automobile installment sales contracts on
which interest is precomputed and added to the face of the loan.  The interest
on precomputed contracts is included in unearned financed charges.  Unearned
financed charges are amortized using the interest method over the remaining
period to contractual maturity.  Contracts held for sale are stated at the lower
of cost or market value.  Market value is determined by purchase commitments
from investors and prevailing market prices.  Gains and losses are recorded as
appropriate when Contracts are sold.  The Company considers a transfer of
Contracts where the Company surrenders control over the Contracts a sale to the
extent that consideration other than beneficial interests in the transferred
Contracts is received in exchange for the Contracts.

     On January 1, 1997, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards 
Board's Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 125 ("SFAS No. 125"),
Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments
of Liabilities. As a result of adopting SFAS No. 125 the Company reclassified
"Investment in Credit Enhancement" (Spread Account) and "Excess Servicing Fee
Receivable" (NIR Receivable) to Residual Interests in Securitizations. The
adoption of SFAS No. 125 did not have a material effect on the operations of the
Company.

     Allowance for Credit Losses

     The Company provides an allowance for credit losses which management
believes provides adequately for known and inherent losses that may develop in
the Contracts held for sale. Management evaluates the

                                      F-6
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                  Years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, and
                   nine-month period ended December 31, 1995

adequacy of the allowance by examining current delinquencies, the
characteristics of the portfolio, the value of underlying collateral, and
general economic conditions and trends.

                                      F-7
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

   Contract Acquisition Fees and Discounts

   Upon purchase of a Contract from a Dealer, the Company generally charges the
dealer an acquisition fee or purchases the Contract at a discount from its face
value.  The acquisition fees and discounts associated with Contract purchases
are deferred until the Contracts are sold at which time the deferred acquisition
fees or discounts are recognized as a component of the gain on sale.

   Investments

   The Company determines the appropriate classification of its investments in
debt securities at the time of purchase or creation.  Debt securities for which
the Company does not have the intent or ability to hold to maturity are
classified as available for sale.  Securities available for sale are carried at
fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in a separate
component of shareholders' equity.

   The amortized cost of debt securities classified as available for sale is
adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, over the
estimated life of the security.  Such amortization and interest earned on the
debt securities are included in interest income.

   Residual Interests in Securitizations and Gain on Sale of Contracts

   The Company purchases Contracts with the primary intention of reselling them
to Investors as asset-backed securities through securitizations.  The
securitizations are generally structured as follows: First, the Company sells a
portfolio of Contracts to a wholly owned subsidiary ("SPS") which has been
established for the limited purpose of buying and reselling the Company's
Contracts.  The SPS then transfers the same Contracts to either a Grantor or
Owners Trust (the "Trust"), and the Trust in turn issues interest-bearing asset-
backed securities (the "Certificates") generally in an amount equal to the
aggregate principal balance of the Contracts. The Company typically sells these
Contracts at face value and without recourse except that the normal
representations and warranties provided by the dealer to the Company are
similarly provided by the Company to the Trust.  One or more investors purchase
these Certificates; the proceeds from the sale of the certificates are then used
to purchase the Contracts from the Company.  In addition, the Company provides a
credit enhancement for the benefit of the investors in the form of an initial
cash deposit to a specific account ("Spread Account") held by the Trust.  The
Spread Account is required by the servicing agreement (the Company's servicing
agreements are collectively referred to as the "Servicing Agreements") to be
maintained at specified levels.

   At the closing of each securitization, the Company removes from its
consolidated balance sheet the Contracts held for sale and adds to its
consolidated balance sheet (i) the cash received and (ii) the estimated fair
value of the portion of the Contracts retained from the securitizations
("Residuals"), which consist of (a) the cash held in the Spread Account and (b)
the net interest receivables ("NIRs").  NIRs represent the discounted cash flows
to be received by the Trust in the future.  The excess of the cash received and
the assets retained by the Company over the carrying value of the Contracts
sold, less transaction costs, equals the net gain on sale of Contracts recorded
by the Company.

   The Company allocates its basis in the Contracts between the portion of the
Contracts sold through the certificates and the portion retained (the Residuals)
based on the relative fair values of those portions on the date of the sale.
The Company may recognize gains or losses attributable to the change in the fair
value of the Residuals, which are recorded at estimated fair value and accounted
for as "held-for-trading" securities.  The Company is not aware of an active
market for the purchase or sale of residuals, and accordingly, the Company
determines the estimated fair value of the Residuals by discounting the expected
cash flows released from the Spread Account (the cash out method) using a
discount rate which the Company believes is commensurate with the risks
involved.  The Company has utilized an effective discount rate of approximately
14% on the estimated cash flows released from the Spread Account to value the
Residuals.

                                      F-8
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

   The Company receives periodic base servicing fees for the servicing and
collection of the Contracts.  In addition, the Company is entitled to the cash
flows from the Residuals that represent collections on the Contracts in excess
of the amounts required to pay the Certificate principal and interest, the base
servicing fees and certain other fees such as trustee and custodial fees.  At
the end of each collection period, the aggregate cash collections from the
Contracts are allocated first to the base servicing fees and certain other fees
such as trustee and custodial fees for the period, then to the
Certificateholders for interest at the pass-through rate on the certificates
plus principal as defined in the Servicing Agreements.  If the amount of cash
required for the above allocations exceeds the amount collected during the
collection period, the shortfall is drawn from the Spread Account.  If the cash
collected during the period exceeds the amount necessary for the above
allocations, and there is no shortfall in the related Spread Account, the excess
is released to the Company. If the Spread Account balance is not at the required
credit enhancement level the excess cash collected is retained in the Spread
Account until the specified level is achieved. The cash in the Spread Accounts
and OC accounts is restricted from use by the Company. Cash held in the various
Spread Accounts is invested in either high quality liquid investment securities,
as specified in the Servicing Agreements or pursuant to certain Servicing
Agreements used to make accelerated principal paydowns on the certificates to
create excess collateral (over-collateralization or OC Account) which is held by
the Trusts on behalf of the Company as the Residual holder. The specified credit
enhancement levels are defined in the Servicing Agreements as the Spread Account
balance expressed generally as a percentage of the current collateral principal
balance. The Spread Account includes both qualified investment and OC accounts
(see note 3).

   The Annual Percentage Rate ("APR") on the Contracts is relatively high in
comparison to the pass through rate on the certificates, accordingly, the
Residuals described above are a significant asset of the Company.  In
determining the value of the Residuals described above, the Company must
estimate the future rates of prepayments, delinquencies, defaults and default
loss severity as they impact the amount and timing of the estimated cash flows.
The Company estimates prepayments by evaluating historical prepayment
performance of comparable Contracts and the impact of trends in the industry.
The Company has used a constant prepayment estimate of 15%. The Company
estimates defaults and default loss severity using available historical loss
data for comparable Contracts and the specific characteristics of the Contracts
purchased by the Company. The Company used default losses of 11.5% to 13.5% as a
percentage of the original principal balance over the life of the Contracts.

   In future periods, the Company will recognize additional revenue from the
Residuals if the actual performance of the Contracts is higher than the original
estimate or the Company may increase the estimated fair value of the Residuals.
If the actual performance of the Contracts is lower than the original estimate,
then an adjustment to the carrying value of the Residuals may be required if the
estimated fair value of the Residuals is less than its carrying value.

   Servicing

   Servicing fees are reported as income when earned.  Servicing costs are
charged to expense as incurred.  Servicing fee receivables represent fees earned
but not yet remitted to the Company by the trustee.

   Furniture and Equipment

   Furniture and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation
which is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives of the assets.  Assets held under capital leases and leasehold
improvements are amortized over the lesser of the estimated useful lives of the
assets or the related lease terms.


                                      F-9
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

   Earnings per Share

   Effective December 31, 1997, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings per Share" ("SFAS No. 128").  This
statement replaces the previously reported primary and fully diluted earnings
per share with basic and diluted earnings per share.  Unlike primary earnings
per share, basic earnings per share excludes any diluted effects of options.
Diluted earnings per share is very similar to the previously reported fully
diluted earnings per share.  All earnings per share amounts have been restated
to conform to the SFAS No. 128 requirements.

The following table illustrates the computation of basic and diluted earnings
per share:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                       Nine months
                                                                                                          ended
                                                                       Year ended December 31,        December 31,
                                                                  ------------------------------------------------
                                                                       1997              1996              1995
                                                                  ------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                               <C>                 <C>              <C>
Numerator:
Numerator for basic earnings per share  --
     net earnings.........................................        $18,532,163         $14,097,376      $ 7,575,122
Interest on borrowings, net of tax effect on conversion of
     convertible subordinated debt........................            313,055             169,575          127,823
                                                                  -----------         -----------      -----------
Numerator for diluted earnings per share..................        $18,845,218         $14,266,951      $ 7,702,945
                                                                  ================================================
 
Denominator:
Denominator for basic earnings per share  --  weighted
     average number of common shares outstanding during
     the period...........................................         14,332,008          13,489,241       11,582,625
Incremental common shares attributable to exercise of
     outstanding options and warrants.....................          1,211,498           1,360,341        2,740,967
Incremental common shares attributable to conversion of
     subordinated debt....................................            509,197             480,000          480,000
                                                                  -----------          ----------       ----------
Denominator for diluted earnings per share................         16,052,703          15,329,582       14,803,592
                                                                  ================================================
 
Basic earnings per share..................................        $      1.29         $      1.05      $       .65
                                                                  ================================================
 
Diluted earnings per share................................        $      1.17         $       .93      $       .52
                                                                  ================================================
</TABLE>

   Income Taxes

   The Company and its subsidiaries file a consolidated Federal income and
combined state franchise tax return.  The Company utilizes the asset and
liability method of accounting for income taxes under which deferred income
taxes are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences
between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and
liabilities and their respective tax bases.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities
are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the
years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or
settled.  The effect on deferred taxes of a change in tax rates is recognized in
income in the period that includes the enactment date.  The Company has
accounted for income taxes in this manner since its inception.

   Stock Split

   On February 16, 1996, the Board of Directors authorized a two-for-one stock
split to be distributed on or about March 14, 1996, to shareholders of record on
March 7, 1996.  All references in the consolidated financial statements to
number of shares, per share amounts and market prices of the Company's common
stock have been retroactively restated to reflect the increased number of common
shares outstanding.

   Stock Option Plan

   As permitted by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"), the Company accounts
for stock-based employee compensation plans in accordance with Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" 

                                      F-10
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

and related interpretations. The Company provides the pro forma net earnings,
pro forma earnings per share, and stock based compensation plan disclosure
requirements set forth in SFAS No. 123.

                                      F-11
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

   Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of

   In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
Be Disposed Of," the Company reviews identifiable intangibles, goodwill and
other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate
the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  If the sum of the expected future
cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying
amount of an asset, an impairment loss is recognized.

   New Accounting Pronouncements

   In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards Nos. 130 and 131, "Reporting Comprehensive
Income" ("SFAS No. 130") and "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information" ("SFAS No. 131"), respectively (collectively, the
"Statements").  The Statements are effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1997.  SFAS No. 130 established standards for reporting of
comprehensive income and its components in annual financial statements.  SFAS
No. 131 establishes standards for reporting financial and descriptive
information about an enterprise's operating segments in its annual financial
statements and selected segment information in interim financial reports.
Reclassification or restatement of comparative financial statements or financial
information for earlier periods is required upon adoption of SFAS No. 130 and
SFAS No. 131, respectively.  Application of the Statements' requirements is not
expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial
position, results of operations or liquidity.

   Use of Estimates

   The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the
financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of income and expenses
during the reported periods.  Specifically, a number of estimates were made in
connection with the recording of the allowance for credit losses and Residuals
and the related gain.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.

   Reclassification

   Certain amounts for the prior periods have been reclassified to conform to
the current presentation.

(2) Contracts Held for Sale

    The following table presents the components of Contracts held for sale:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              December 31,         December 31,
                                                                                  1997                 1996
                                                                            ---------------       --------------
<S>                                                                         <C>                   <C>
Gross receivable balance.................................................   $    81,905,819       $   28,095,461
Unearned finance charges.................................................       (10,077,417)          (5,268,107)
Deferred acquisition fees and discounts..................................        (1,091,761)            (447,492)
Allowance for credit losses..............................................        (2,465,441)            (723,089)
                                                                            ---------------       --------------
   Net contracts held for sale...........................................   $    68,271,200       $   21,656,773
                                                                            ===============       ==============
</TABLE>

                                      F-12
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

   The following table presents the activity in the allowance for credit losses:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                               Nine months
                                                                                                  ended
                                                         Year ended December 31,              December 31,
                                                   --------------------------------------------------------
                                                        1997                 1996                 1995
                                                   --------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                <C>                   <C>                  <C>
Balance, beginning of period....................    $     723,089        $     330,156        $     323,631
Provisions......................................        4,088,504            2,755,803              828,458
Charge-offs.....................................       (2,935,010)          (2,755,303)          (1,076,982)
Recoveries......................................          588,858              392,433              255,049
   Balance, end of period.......................    $   2,465,441        $     723,089        $     330,156
                                                    =======================================================
</TABLE>

   The Company is required to represent and warrant certain matters with respect
to the Contracts sold to investors, which generally duplicate the substance of
the representations and warranties made by the dealers in connection with the
Company's purchase of the Contracts.  In the event of a breach by the Company of
any representation or warranty, the Company is obligated to repurchase the
Contracts from the investors at a price equal to the investors' purchase price
less the related credit enhancement and any principal payments received from the
borrower.  In most cases, the Company would then be entitled under the terms of
its agreements with dealers to require the selling dealer to repurchase the
Contracts at the Company's purchase price less any principal payments received
from the borrower.

   As of December 31, 1997, the Company had commitments to purchase $3,773,738
of Contracts from Dealers in the ordinary course of business.

(3)  Residual Interests in Securitizations

  The following table presents the components of the residual interest in
securitizations:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             December 31,         December 31,
                                                                                 1997                 1996
                                                                            -----------------------------------
<S>                                                                         <C>                  <C> 
Funds held by investor...................................................   $       578,710      $    1,263,660
Investment in subordinated certificates..................................           790,516           1,530,950
Cash, commercial paper, US government securities and other qualifying
investments (Spread Account).............................................        68,513,454          40,802,862
OC accounts..............................................................         9,621,183                  --
NIRs.....................................................................        45,111,641          23,654,461
                                                                            -----------------------------------
                                                                            $   124,615,504      $   67,251,933
                                                                            ===================================
</TABLE>

The following table presents the activity of the NIRs :

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                  Nine months
                                                                                                     ended
                                                            Year ended December 31,              December 31,
                                                     ---------------------------------------------------------
                                                           1997                 1996                 1995
                                                     ---------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                  <C>                   <C>                  <C>
Balance, beginning of period......................   $    23,654,461       $   11,108,251       $    5,154,361
NIR gains recognized (note 4).....................        34,767,175           18,665,429            7,977,828
Amortization of NIRs (note 5).....................       (13,309,995)          (6,119,219)          (2,023,938)
                                                     ---------------------------------------------------------
Balance, end of period............................   $    45,111,641       $   23,654,461       $   11,108,251
                                                     =========================================================
</TABLE>

                                      F-13
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

    The following table presents the estimated credit losses as a percentage of
the Company's servicing portfolio subject to recourse provisions:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  December 31,
                                                 ----------------------------------------------
                                                     1997             1996             1995
                                                 ------------     ------------     ------------
<S>                                              <C>               <C>              <C>
Estimated credit losses.......................   $ 90,814,217     $ 45,880,979     $ 25,363,061
                                                                              
Servicing subject to recourse provisions......   $830,918,120     $483,106,256     $268,163,150
                                                 ============     ============     ============
Estimated credit losses as percentage of                                     
   servicing subject to recourse provisions...          10.93%            9.50%            9.46%
                                                 ============     ============     ============
</TABLE>

(4)  Gain on Sale of Contracts
 
     The following table presents the components of the net gain on sale of
Contracts:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Nine months
                                                                      ended
                                     Year ended December 31,       December 31,
                                  ---------------------------      ------------
                                       1997         1996              1995
                                  ----------     ------------      ------------
<S>                               <C>            <C>               <C> 
NIR gains recognized............  $34,767,175     $18,665,429       $ 7,977,828
Deferred acquisition fees and       8,924,719       6,890,341         5,044,501
 discounts......................                               
Expenses related to sales.......   (4,558,419)     (2,234,755)       (1,472,916)
                                  -----------     -----------       -----------
                                  $39,133,475     $23,321,015       $11,549,413
                                  ===========     ===========       ===========
</TABLE>

(5)  Interest Income
 
     The following table presents the components of interest income:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    Nine months
                                                                       ended
                                          Year ended December 31,   December 31,
                                        -------------------------  ------------
                                            1997         1996          1995
                                        ----------    -----------  ------------
<S>                                     <C>           <C>          <C> 
Interest on Contracts held for sale...  $ 14,279,120  $ 9,980,518  $ 4,856,591
Residual interest income..............    22,556,454   16,118,476    6,387,744
Amortization of NIRs                     (13,309,995)  (6,119,219)  (2,023,938)
                                        ------------   ----------  -----------
   Net interest income................  $ 23,525,579  $19,979,775  $ 9,220,397
                                        ============  ===========  ===========
</TABLE>

(6) Servicing

    The following table presents the components of the Company's servicing
portfolio:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                December 31,
                                                 ------------------------------------------
                                                      1997           1996          1995
                                                 ------------   ------------   ------------
<S>                                              <C>            <C>            <C> 
Contracts held for sale.......................   $ 71,828,402   $ 22,827,354   $ 20,764,205
Servicing subject to recourse provisions:
      Whole loan portfolios...................      4,838,858     11,212,010     21,213,050
      Alton Receivables Corp..................      3,073,254     10,240,973     22,732,021
      CPS Receivables Corp....................    823,006,008    461,653,273    224,218,079
                                                 ------------   ------------   ------------
                                                 $902,746,522   $505,933,610   $288,927,355
                                                 ============   ============   ============
</TABLE>

                                      F-14
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(7)  Furniture and Equipment

     The following table presents the component of furniture and equipment:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                   December 31,        December 31,
                                                                                       1997                1996
                                                                                   -------------       -------------
<S>                                                                                <C>                 <C> 
Furniture and fixtures.........................................................    $   1,869,308       $     759,783
Computer equipment.............................................................        1,894,807             875,870
Leasing assets.................................................................          916,188                  --
Leasehold improvements.........................................................          126,781              91,700
Other Fixed assets.............................................................           54,530                  --
                                                                                   -------------       -------------
                                                                                                   
                                                                                       4,861,614           1,727,353
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization.................................       (1,733,529)         (1,097,579)
                                                                                   -------------       -------------
                                                                                   $   3,128,085       $     629,774
                                                                                   =============       =============
</TABLE>

(8) Related Party Transactions
 
    Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliates

   Investment in unconsolidated affiliates primarily consists of a 38% interest
in NAB Asset Corporation ("NAB") that was acquired by the Company on June 6,
1996, for approximately $4.3 million. At the time of the acquisition, NAB had
approximately $3.5 million in cash and no significant operations. The Company's
investment in NAB exceeded the Company's share of the net assets of NAB at the
acquisition date by approximately $1.4 million. This amount, which is included
in other assets in the accompanying balance sheet, has been recorded by the
Company as goodwill. Based on the closing price on the Nasdaq, the market value
of the investment in NAB was approximately $4.0 million and $7.5 million at
December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Charles E. Bradley, Sr., Chairman of
the Company's Board of Directors and principal shareholder and Charles E.
Bradley, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Company's
Board of Directors are both on the Board of Directors of NAB.

   Subsequent to the Company's investment in NAB, NAB purchased Mortgage
Portfolio Services, Inc. ("MPS") from the Company for $300,000.  MPS, formed by
the Company in April, 1996, is a mortgage broker-dealer based in Texas.  In July
1996, NAB formed CARSUSA, Inc. ("CARSUSA"), which purchased, and now owns and
operates, a Mitsubishi automobile dealership in Southern California.  On June
27, 1997, NAB sold CARSUSA to Charles E. Bradley, Sr. and Charles E. Bradley,
Jr., for $1.5 million.  Included in other income for the year ended December 31,
1997, is $848,920, which represents the Company's share of NAB's income for the
year then ended.  Included in general and administrative expenses for the year
ended December 31, 1996, is $595,352, which represents the Company's share of
NAB's loss from June 6, through December 31, 1996.

                                      F-15
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)


   Related Party Receivables

The following table presents the components of related party receivables:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       December 31,
                                           --------------------------------
Related Party                                   1997               1996
                                           -------------      -------------
 
<S>                                        <C>                <C> 
NAB Asset Corporation                       $  5,601,750       $    101,750
CARSUSA, Inc.                                  1,350,954            991,231
Service and Management Cooperative, Inc.         128,421            115,213
Global Equipment Leasing, LLC                    114,275                 --
Stanwich Partners, Inc.                          100,000            100,000
                                            ------------       ------------
                                            $  7,295,400       $  1,308,194
                                            ============       ============
</TABLE>

   Included in the receivable from CARSUSA at December 31, 1997 and 1996, is
$790,000 and $800,000, respectively, related to a flooring line of credit
provided to CARSUSA and the remainder relates to amounts owed by CARSUSA for
other borrowings.

   During fiscal 1997 and 1996, respectively, the Company sold 107 and 69
automobiles to CARSUSA and received proceeds of $749,800 and $458,650,
respectively.  Additionally, the Company purchased 183 and 39 Contracts from
CARSUSA, with an aggregate principal balance of $2,405,100 and $517,264,
respectively.

   Included in the receivable from NAB is  $5.5 million arising from the
issuance of two promissory notes totaling $9.5 million, bearing interest at 13%
annually.  On December 31, 1997, one of the promissory notes for $4.0 million
was sold to Stanwich Financial Services Corp. ("SFSC") for $4.0 million, the
proceeds of which were received on December 31, 1997.  Charles E. Bradley, Sr.,
Charles E. Bradley, Jr., and John G. Poole, who are officers and directors of
the Company, collectively own 92.5% of the common stock of Stanwich Holdings,
Inc. ("Stanwich Holdings"), and Mr. Bradley, Sr., is the president and a
director of Stanwich Holdings.  SFSC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Stanwich
Holdings.  

   On March 2, 1998, NAB acquired Stanwich Holdings. At that time the Company
received a note from NAB for $530,835 in exchange for an option it had held to
acquire 100% of the outstanding common stock of Stanwich Holdings. The March 2,
1998 transaction and related note are unaudited.

   At December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively, $128,421 and $115,213 is
due from Service and Management Cooperative, Inc.  These amounts
represent liabilities incurred by Service and Management Cooperative, Inc.,
which were paid for by the Company.  Certain officers of the Company's
subsidiary Samco are officers of Service and Management Cooperative, Inc.

   At December 31, 1997, $114,275 is due from Global Equipment Leasing, LLC.
These amounts represent payments by the Company's subsidiary CPS Leasing, Inc.,
of certain debt obligations of Global Equipment Leasing, LLC., which is 50%
owned by CPS Leasing, Inc.  

   The amount due from Stanwich Partners, Inc. ("SPI") at December 31, 1997 and
1996, is related to investment banking services performed by the Company in
connection with the Company's January 2, 1997 acquisition of CPS Leasing, Inc.
The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company is a principal shareholder
of SPI.

   The Company is a party to a consulting agreement with SPI that calls for
monthly payments of $6,250 through December 31, 1998.  Included in the
accompanying consolidated statements of earnings for the year ended December 31,
1997 and 1996, and for the nine-month period ended December 31, 1995, is
$75,000, $75,000 and $262,500, respectively, of consulting expense related to
this consulting agreement.  

                                      F-16
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

   Related Party Debt

   In May 1997, the Company entered into two transactions with a related party:
(i) the Company purchased $14.5 million of preferred stock of Stanwich Holdings
with dividends cumulative at the rate of 9% per annum and redeemable at an
aggregate price of $14.6 million, plus accrued dividends, and (ii) the Company
borrowed $14.5 million with an interest rate of 8% per annum under a 60-day
related party loan from SFSC.  In August 1997, the Company received $14.9
million in redemption of its preferred stock of Stanwich Holdings and repaid the
60-day related party loan in its entirety.  In August 1997, the Company entered
into a line of credit agreement with SFSC ("Stanwich Line"), to supplement its
working capital resources.  Under the Stanwich Line, SFSC agreed to lend up to
$25 million to the Company from time to time upon request, through December 19,
1997.  Any amount outstanding at December 31, 1997 would be due at that time.
Borrowings under the Stanwich Line bear interest at the rate of 10% per annum,
and the Company paid a $250,000 (one percent) commitment fee to SFSC in
connection with opening the line of credit.  The Company drew the full amount of
the line at its inception, none of which remained outstanding at December 31,
1997.

   The Company has also received long-term financing from SFSC.  In June 1997
the Company borrowed $15 million on an unsecured and subordinated basis from
SFSC.  This loan ("RPL") is due 2004, and has a fixed rate of interest of 9% per
annum, payable monthly beginning July 1997.  The Company may pre-pay the RPL
without penalty at any time after three years.   At maturity or repayment of the
RPL, the holder thereof will have an option to convert 20% of the principal
amount into common stock of the Company, at a conversion rate of $11.86 per
share.

(9)  Shareholders' Equity

   Common Stock

   Holders of the common stock are entitled to such dividends as the Company's
Board of Directors, in its discretion, may declare out of funds available,
subject to the terms of any outstanding shares of preferred stock and other
restrictions.  In the event of liquidation of the Company, holders of common
stock are entitled to receive, pro rata, all of the assets of the Company
available for distribution, after payment of any liquidation preference to the
holders of outstanding shares of preferred stock.  Holders of the shares of
common stock have no conversion or preemptive or other subscription rights and
there are no redemption or sinking fund provisions applicable to the common
stock.

   The Company is required to comply with various operating and financial
covenants defined in the agreements governing the warehouse lines and the
subordinated debt.  The covenants restrict the payment of certain distributions,
including dividends.

   Options and Warrants

   In 1991, the Company adopted and gained sole shareholder approval of the 1991
Stock Option Plan (the "1991 Plan") pursuant to which the Company's Board of
Directors may grant stock options to officers and key employees.  The Plan, as
amended, authorizes grants of options to purchase up to 2,700,000 shares of
authorized but unissued common stock.  Stock options are granted with an
exercise price equal to the stock's fair market value at the date of grant.
Stock options have terms that range from 7 to 10 years and vest over a range of
0 to 7 years.  In addition to the 1991 Plan, in fiscal 1995, the Company granted
60,000 options to certain directors of the Company that vest over three years
and expire nine years from the grant date.

   In July, 1997 the Company adopted and gained shareholder approval of the 1997
Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "1997 Plan") pursuant to which the Company's Board
of Directors may grant stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation
rights to employees, Directors or employees of entities in 

                                      F-17
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

which the Company has a controlling or significant equity interest. Options that
have been granted under the 1997 Plan have in all cases been granted at an
exercise price equal to the stock's fair market value at the date of the grant,
with terms of 10 years and vesting over 4 years. The 1997 Plan provides that an
aggregate maximum of 1,500,000 shares of the Company's common shares may be
subject to awards under the 1997 Plan. As of December 31, 1997, the shares
reserved under the 1997 Plan were not registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.

   At December 31, 1997, there were 1,443,400 additional shares available for
grant under the 1991 Plan and 1997 Plan.  Of the options outstanding at December
31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, 584,920, 1,319,420 and 1,296,786, respectively, were
exercisable with weighted-average exercise prices of $6.77, $4.02 and $2.71,
respectively. The per share weighted-average fair value of stock options granted
during the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the nine-month period
ended December 31, 1995, was $5.79, $4.99, and $4.17, respectively, at the date
of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
weighted average assumptions:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                    Nine months ended
                                                       Year ended December 31,          December 31,
                                                     -------------------------      -----------------
                                                         1997          1996               1995
                                                     -------------------------      -----------------
<S>                                                  <C>             <C>            <C>
Expected life (years)............................        6.50          5.86               6.33
Risk-free interest rate..........................        6.48%         6.23%              6.80%
Volatility.......................................       52.04%        46.20%             46.20%
Expected dividend yield..........................         --            --                 --
</TABLE>

   The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 in accounting for its plans and,
accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for its stock options in
the consolidated financial statements.  Had the Company determined compensation
cost based on the fair value at the grant date for its stock options under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based
Compensation", the Company's net earnings and net earnings per share would have
been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
                                                                   Year ended December 31,
                                                    -----------------------------------------------------
 
                                                           1997                1996             1995
                                                    --------------      --------------    ---------------
<S>                                                 <C>                 <C>               <C>
Net earnings
  As reported....................................   $   18,532,163      $   14,097,376      $   7,575,122
  Pro forma......................................   $   18,182,000      $   13,550,000      $   7,505,000
 
Net earnings per share - basic
  As reported....................................   $         1.29      $         1.05      $        0.65
  Pro forma......................................   $         1.27      $         1.00      $        0.65
 
Net earnings per share - diluted
  As reported....................................   $         1.17      $         0.93      $        0.52
  Pro forma......................................   $         1.17      $         0.90      $        0.52
</TABLE>

   Pro forma net earnings and net earnings per share reflects only options
granted in the year ended December 31, 1997, 1996, and the nine-month period
ended December 31, 1995.  Therefore, the full impact of calculating compensation
cost for stock options under SFAS No. 123 is not reflected in the pro forma net
earnings amounts presented above because compensation cost is reflected over the
options' vesting period and compensation cost for options granted prior to Apri1
1, 1995 is not considered.

                                      F-18
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Stock options activity during the periods indicated is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               Number of       Weighted-Average
                                                Shares         Exercise Price
                                               ---------      -----------------
<S>                                            <C>            <C>
Balance at March 31, 1995................      2,045,040            $ 3.23
     Granted.............................        159,360              7.61
     Exercised...........................         44,000              2.50
     Canceled............................             --               --
                                               ---------      -----------------
Balance at December 31, 1995.............      2,160,400              3.56
     Granted.............................        513,400              9.60
     Exercised...........................        394,600              2.82
     Canceled............................        124,800              5.23
                                               ---------      -----------------
Balance at December 31, 1996.............      2,154,400              5.04
     Granted.............................        321,000              9.76
     Exercised...........................        936,800              2.64
     Canceled............................        145,400             11.69
                                               ---------      -----------------
Balance at December 31, 1997.............      1,393,200            $ 7.05
                                               =========      =================
</TABLE>

   On August 21, 1992, the Board of Directors approved the grant to Holdings of
a non-qualified option to purchase 1,800,000 shares of common stock at an
exercise price of $2.50 per share, the estimated fair market value at the date
of grant.  This option is in addition to and is not part of the 1991 Plan or
1997 Plan. This ten year option vested in full on the date of grant. On December
6, 1995, Holdings exercised its option in full.

   At December 31, 1997, the range of exercise prices, the number, weighted-
average exercise price and weighted-average remaining term of options
outstanding and the number and weighted-average price of options currently
exercisable are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               Weighted-        Weighted
                                                Average          Average                        Weighted-Average
                                Number         Remaining        Exercise          Number            Exercise
Range of Exercise Prices      Outstanding        Term             Price         Exercisable           Price
- ------------------------      -----------      ---------        --------        -----------     ----------------
<S>                           <C>              <C>              <C>             <C>             <C>
      $  2.50 - $2.69           192,040           4.04           $ 2.62           123,500           $ 2.58
      $  4.38 - $4.38            70,000           6.01           $ 4.38            52,000           $ 4.38
      $  5.38 - $5.38           281,200           6.29           $ 5.38            45,800           $ 5.38
      $  5.56 - $7.25           164,360           6.65           $ 6.97            69,350           $ 7.25
      $  7.38 - $8.50           217,200           9.21           $ 8.29            43,650           $ 8.37
      $  8.63 - $8.63            15,000           8.53           $ 8.63             6,500           $ 8.63
      $  8.88 - $8.88           326,400           8.25           $ 8.88           221,520           $ 8.88
      $ 9.63 - $13.50           116,000           9.29           $11.56            20,400           $11.66
      $16.75 - $16.75            10,000           9.73           $16.75             2,000           $16.75
      $17.63 - $17.63             1,000           9.67           $17.63               200           $17.63
</TABLE>

   In connection with the Company's initial public offering, the Company sold to
the underwriter of the offering, for an aggregate price of $120, warrants to
purchase up to 240,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price
of $3.00 per share.  The warrants were exercisable during the four year period
commencing one year from the date of the offering.  The shares represented by
the warrants have been registered for public sale.  During the year ended
December 31, 1997, 1996, and the nine month period ended December 31, 1995, the
underwriter exercised 14,000, 86,000, and 100,534 warrants, respectively.  At
December 31, 1997 all warrants had been exercised.

                                      F-19
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(10) Commitments and Contingencies

   Leases

   The Company leases its facilities and certain computer equipment under non-
cancelable operating and capital leases which expire through 2007.  Future
minimum lease payments at December 31, 1997, under these leases are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       Capital      Operating
                                                     ----------     ----------
<S>                                                  <C>            <C>  
1998..............................................   $  512,775     $1,699,346
1999..............................................      502,285      1,158,278
2000..............................................      350,762      1,037,613
2001..............................................      270,550        481,449
2002..............................................      176,413        331,084
Thereafter........................................          --       1,351,780
                                                     ----------     ---------- 
Total minimum lease payments                          1,812,785     $6,059,550
                                                                    ==========
 
Less: amount representing interest................      320,663
                                                      ---------
Present value of net minimum lease payments.......   $1,492,122
                                                     ==========
</TABLE>

   On October 27, 1997, the Company entered into agreements to have built and to
lease a new headquarters building in Irvine, California.  The lease is for a
ten-year term and calls for total minimum lease payments of $20.0 million over
that term.

   Included in furniture and equipment in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets are the following assets held under capital leases at December 31, 1997:

<TABLE>
<S>                                         <C>
Data processing equipment.............      $  663,101
Furniture and fixtures................         994,976
                                            ----------
                                             1,658,077
Less: accumulated depreciation........        (129,205)
                                            $1,528,872
                                            ==========
</TABLE>

   Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the nine-
month period ended December 31, 1995, was $1,036,677, $463,592 and $186,483,
respectively. The Company's facility lease contains certain rental concessions
and escalating rental payments which are recognized as adjustments to rental
expense and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.

   Litigation

   The Company is party to litigation in the ordinary course of business,
generally involving actions against automobile purchasers to collect amounts due
on purchased Contracts or to recover vehicles. In one such case, relating to the
Chapter 13 bankruptcy of obligors Madeline and Darryl Brownlee, of Chicago,
Illinois, the obligors counterclaimed against the Company on June 30, 1997 in
the bankruptcy court for the Northern District of Illinois. The obligors seek
class-action treatment of their allegation that the cost of an extended service
contract on the automobile they purchased was inadequately disclosed by the
automobile dealer, Joe Cotton Ford of Carol Stream, Illinois. The disclosure is
alleged to violate the Federal Truth In Lending Act and Illinois consumer
protection statutes. The obligors' claim is directed against both the dealer for
making the allegedly improper disclosures and against the Company as holder of
the purchase contract. The relief sought is damages in an unspecified amount,
plus costs of suit and attorney's fees. The court has not ruled on the obligors'
request for class-action treatment, nor on the merits of the claims.

                                      F-20
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

   In another proceeding, arising out of efforts to collect a deficiency balance
from Joseph Barrios of Chicago, Illinois, the debtor has brought suit against
the Company alleging defects in the notice given upon repossession of the
vehicle.  This lawsuit was filed on February 18, 1998 in the circuit court of
Cook County, Illinois.  Barrios, represented by the same law firm as the
Brownlee obligors, seeks class-action treatment of his allegation that notice of
a fifteen day period to reinstate his installment purchase contract was
misleading, in that it did not refer to an alleged right to redeem collateral up
to the date of sale.  The relief sought is damages in an unspecified amount,
plus costs of suit and attorney's fees.  As of the date of this filing, the
Company has not been required to respond to this litigation and has not yet done
so.

   The Company intends to dispute both of these matters vigorously, and believes
that it has meritorious defenses to each claim made.  Nevertheless, the outcome
of any litigation is uncertain, and there is the possibility that damages could
be assessed against the Company in amounts that could be material.  It is
management's opinion that all litigation of which it is aware, including the
matters discussed above, will no have a material adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
 
(11) Income Taxes

   Income taxes are comprised of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              Nine months
                                                                                 ended
                                                  Year ended December 31,     December 31,
                                                -------------------------     -----------
                                                   1997            1996           1995
                                                -----------     ----------     ----------
<S>                                             <C>             <C>           <C> 
Current                                       
  Federal.....................................  $ 4,277,787     $3,060,164     $2,156,799
  State.......................................      922,512      1,150,859        726,319
                                                -----------     ----------     ----------
                                                  5,200,299      4,211,023      2,883,118
Deferred                                      
  Federal.....................................    4,504,636      4,565,383      1,683,960
  State.......................................    1,610,956        818,614        515,108
                                                -----------     ----------     ----------
                                                  6,115,592      5,383,997      2,199,068
Income tax benefit from exercise of options   
credited to shareholders' equity..............    2,110,796            --             --
                                                -----------     ----------     ----------
      Income taxes............................  $13,426,687     $9,595,020     $5,082,186
                                                ===========     ==========     ==========
</TABLE>

   The Company's effective tax expense differs from the amount determined by
applying the statutory Federal rate of 35% for the years ended December 31, 1997
and 1996, and for the nine-month period ended December 31, 1995, to earnings
before income taxes as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                        Nine months
                                                                                           ended
                                                            Year ended December 31,     December 31,
                                                          --------------------------    -----------
                                                              1997           1996           1995
                                                          -----------     ----------     ----------
<S>                                                       <C>             <C>           <C> 
Expense at Federal tax rate............................   $11,185,598     $8,292,338     $4,430,058

California franchise tax, net of federal income tax
 benefit...............................................     1,672,089      1,280,157        737,192
State tax benefit from exercise of options, net of
 federal income tax benefit, credited to shareholders'
 equity................................................       585,608            --             --
Other..................................................       (16,608)        22,525        (85,064)
                                                          -----------     ----------     ----------
                                                          $13,426,687     $9,595,020     $5,082,186
                                                          ===========     ==========     ==========
</TABLE>

                                      F-21
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

   The tax effected cumulative temporary differences that give rise to deferred
tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        December 31,
                                               ---------------------------------
                                                     1997               1996
                                               --------------      -------------
<S>                                            <C>                 <C> 
Deferred Tax Assets:
  Accrued liabilities.......................   $      558,881      $      13,670
  Furniture and equipment...................           27,295             23,095
  Provision for credit losses...............        1,105,849            301,357
  State taxes...............................        1,850,507            508,219
  Other.....................................          289,419                 --
                                               --------------      -------------
                                                    3,831,951            846,341
Deferred Tax Liabilities:
  Excess servicing receivables..............       16,408,622          7,873,592
  Equity investments........................          566,172                 --
                                               --------------      -------------
                                                   16,974,794          7,873,592
  Net deferred tax liability................   $   13,142,843      $   7,027,251
                                               ==============      =============
</TABLE>

   In determining the possible future realization of deferred tax assets, future
taxable income from the following sources are taken into account: (a) the
reversal of taxable temporary differences, and (b) future operations exclusive
of reversing temporary differences.

   The Company believes that the deferred tax asset will more likely than not be
realized due to the reversal of the deferred tax liability and expected future
taxable income.

   The Company is in the process of an audit by the Internal Revenue Service of
the Company's Federal income tax return for the tax year ended March 31, 1995.
Management does not believe this examination will  have a material adverse
effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations
or liquidity.

(12)  Debt

   In June 1995, the Company entered into two warehouse line of credit
agreements (collectively the "Line").  The Line provides the Company with an
interim financing facility to hold Contracts for sale in greater numbers and for
longer periods of time prior to their sale to other institutional investors.
The primary agreement provides for loans by Redwood Receivables Corporation
("Redwood") to the Company, to be funded by commercial paper issued by Redwood
and secured by Contracts pledged periodically by the Company.  The Redwood
facility provides for a maximum of $100.0 million of advances to the Company,
with interest at a variable rate (7.35% at December 31, 1997) indexed to
prevailing commercial paper rates.

   The second agreement is a standby line of credit with General Electric
Capital Corporation ("GECC"), also with a $100.0 million maximum, which the
Company may use only if and to the extent that Redwood does not provide funding
as described above.  The GECC line is secured by Contracts and substantially all
the other assets of the Company.  Both agreements expire November 30, 1998.

   The two agreements are viewed as a single short-term warehouse line of
credit, with advances varying according to the amount of pledged Contracts.  The
Company is charged a non-utilization fee of .25% per annum on the unused portion
of the Line.  The balance outstanding at December 31, 1997 and 1996 under the
Line was $30.8 million and $13.3 million, respectively.

                                      F-22
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

   In November 1997, the Company entered into a third warehouse line of credit
agreement with First Union Capital Markets ("First Union Line").  The First
Union Line provides for a maximum of $150 million of advances to the Company,
with interest at a variable rate (7.14% at December 31, 1997) indexed to
prevailing commercial paper rates.  The agreement expires November 30, 1998 and
is renewable for one year with the mutual consent of the Company and First Union
Capital Markets.  The balance outstanding under the First Union Line at December
31, 1997 was $30,892,013.

    When the Company wishes to securitize Contracts, a substantial part of the
proceeds received from investors is paid to the providers of the warehouse
lines, simultaneously with their release of the pledged Contracts for transfer
to a pass-through securitization trust.

   In December 1996, the Company entered into an overdraft financing facility,
with a bank, that provides for maximum borrowings of $2.0 million.  Interest is
charged on the outstanding balance at the bank's reference rate (8.50% at
December 31, 1997) plus 1.75%.  During 1997, the overdraft facility was
increased to $4.0 million.  There were no borrowings outstanding under this
facility at December 31, 1997.  The facility expires on June 1, 1998.  The Line,
First Union Line and the overdraft financing facility contain various
restrictive and financial covenants with which the Company was in compliance at
December 31, 1997.

   On April 15, 1997, the Company issued $20.0 million in subordinated
participating equity notes ("PENs") due April 15, 2004.  The PENs are unsecured
general obligations of the Company.  Interest on the PENs is payable on the
fifteenth of each month, commencing May 15, 1997, at an interest rate of 10.5%
per annum.  In connection with the issuance of the PENs, the Company incurred
and capitalized issuance costs of $1.2 million.  The Company recognizes interest
and amortization expense related to the PENs using the effective interest method
over the expected redemption period.  The PENs are subordinated to certain
existing and future indebtedness of the Company as defined in the indenture
agreement.  The Company may at its option elect to redeem the PENs from the
registered holders, in whole but not in part, at any time on or after April 15,
2000, at 100% of their principal amount, subject to limited conversion rights,
plus accrued interest to and including the date of  redemption.  At maturity,
upon the exercise by the Company of an optional redemption, or upon the
occurrence of a "Special Redemption Event," each holder will have the right to
convert into common stock of the Company ("Common Stock"), 25% of the aggregate
principal amount of the PENs held by such holder at the conversion price of
$10.15 per share of Common Stock.  "Special Redemption Events" are certain
events related to a change in control of the Company.

   On December 20, 1995, the Company issued $20.0 million in rising interest
subordinated redeemable securities due January 1, 2006 (the "Notes").  The Notes
are unsecured general obligations of the Company.  Interest on the Notes is
payable on the first day of each month, commencing February 1, 1996, at an
interest rate of 10.0% per annum.  The interest rate increases 0.25% on each
January 1 for the first nine years and 0.50% in the last year.   In connection
with the issuance of the Notes, the Company incurred and capitalized issuance
costs of $1.1 million.  The Company recognizes interest and amortization expense
related to the Notes using the effective interest method over the expected
redemption period.   The Notes are subordinated to certain existing and future
indebtedness of the Company as defined in the indenture agreement.  The Company
is required to redeem, subject to certain adjustments, $1.0 million of the
aggregate principal amount of the Notes through the operation of a sinking fund
on each of January 1, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005.  The Notes are not
redeemable at the option of the Company prior to January 1, 1998.  The Company
may at its option elect to redeem the Notes from the registered holders of the
Notes, in whole or in part, at any time, on or after January 1, 1998, and prior
to January 1, 1999, at 102% of their principal amount, on or after January 1,
1999, and prior to January 1, 2000, at 101% of their principal amount, and on or
after January 1, 2000, at 100% of their principal amount, in each case plus
accrued interest to and including the date of redemption.

   During the year ended December 31, 1997 the Company acquired CPS Leasing,
Inc.  At December 31, 1997, CPS Leasing, Inc. had borrowings to banks of
$1.5 million.

                                      F-23
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

   On March 12, 1993, the Company issued a $2 million five year convertible
subordinated note ("Note 1") to an institutional investor in conjunction with an
agreement by that investor to commit to purchase up to $50 million of the
Company's Contracts.  Interest accrued at 11% and was payable semi-annually.  On
July 5, 1995, the holder converted Note 1 to 533,334 shares of the Company's
common stock.  On November 16, 1993, the Company issued a $3 million five year
convertible subordinated note ("Note 2") to the same institutional investor in
conjunction with an agreement by that investor to commit to purchase an
additional $50 million of the Company's Contracts.  Interest accrued at 9.5% and
was payable semi-annually.  On January 17, 1997, the holder converted Note 2
into 480,000 shares of the Company's common stock.

   On July 6, 1995, the Company issued a promissory note in the amount of $2.0
million to the same institutional investor who held Notes 1 and 2.  The note
bore interest at 200 basis points over the Citibank Base Rate and matured on
December 31, 1995.  On December 6, 1995, this note was repaid in full.

(13)  Employee Benefits

   The Company sponsors a pretax savings and profit sharing plan (the "401(K)
Plan") under section 401(K) of the Internal Revenue Code.  Under the 401(K)
Plan, eligible employees are able to contribute up to 15% of their compensation
(subject to stricter limitation in the case of highly compensated employees).
The Company matches 40% of employees' contributions up to $500 per employee per
calendar year. The Company's contribution to the 401(K) Plan was $115,684,
$63,801, and $13,811 for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, and for the
nine month period ended December 31, 1995, respectively.

(14) Fair Value of Financial Instruments

   The following summary presents a description of the methodologies and
assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the Company's financial
instruments.  Much of the information used to determine fair value is highly
subjective.  When applicable, readily available market information has been
utilized.  However, for a significant portion of the Company's financial
instruments, active market values do not exist. Therefore, considerable
judgments were required in estimating fair value for certain items.  The
subjective factors include, among other things, the estimated timing and amount
of cash flows, risk characteristics, credit quality and interest rates, all of
which are subject to change.  Since the fair value is estimated as of December
31, 1997 and 1996, the amounts that will actually be realized or paid at
settlement or maturity of the instruments could be significantly different.  The
estimated fair values of financial assets and liabilities at December 31, 1997
and 1996, were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            December 31,
                                               -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 1997                                     1996
                                               ---------------------------------------      ----------------------------------
                                                       Carrying               Fair               Carrying             Fair
Financial Instrument                                     Value                Value                Value              Value
- --------------------                           ------------------      ---------------      --------------      --------------
<S>                                            <C>                     <C>                  <C>                 <C>
Cash........................................   $        1,745,200      $     1,745,200      $      153,958      $      153,958
Contracts held for sale.....................           68,271,200           70,900,000          21,656,773          22,800,000
Residual interest in securitizations........          124,615,504          124,615,504          67,251,933          67,251,933
Warehouse lines of credit...................           61,665,583           61,665,583          13,264,585          13,264,585
Notes payable...............................            1,505,593            1,505,593                  --                  --
Subordinated debt...........................           40,000,000           40,000,000          23,000,000          23,000,000
Related party debt..........................   $       15,055,431      $    15,055,431      $           --      $           --
</TABLE>

   Cash

   The carrying value equals fair value.

                                      F-24
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

   The fair value of the Company's contracts held for sale is determined by
purchase commitments from investors and prevailing market rates.

                                      F-25
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

   Residual Interest in Securitizations

   The fair value is estimated by discounting future cash flows using credit and
discount rates that the Company believes reflect the estimated credit, interest
rate and prepayment risks associated with similar types of instruments.

   Warehouse Line of Credit

   The carrying value approximates fair value because the warehouse line of
credit is short-term in nature and the related interest rates are estimated to
reflect current market conditions for similar types of instruments.

   Notes Payable, Subordinated and Related Party Debt

   The carrying value approximates fair value because the related interest rates
are estimated to reflect current market conditions for similar types of
instruments.

(15) Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          Quarter Ended       Quarter Ended       Quarter Ended       Quarter Ended
                                            March 31,           June 30,          September 30,       December 31,
                                          -------------       -------------       -------------       -------------
<S>                                       <C>                 <C>                 <C>                 <C>
1997
 Revenues..........................       $  16,257,664       $  18,110,679       $  21,283,927       $  23,687,319
 Earnings before income taxes......           7,143,361           7,548,532           8,309,076           8,957,881
 Net earnings......................           4,144,754           4,385,632           4,816,135           5,185,642
 
 Earnings per share:
  Basic............................       $        0.29       $        0.31       $        0.34       $        0.36
  Diluted..........................       $        0.27       $        0.28       $        0.30       $        0.32
 
1996
 Revenues..........................       $   9,907,581       $  12,485,185       $  13,758,526       $  15,042,511
 Earnings before income taxes......           5,101,297           5,517,249           6,451,297           6,622,553
 Net earnings......................           3,051,297           3,271,229           3,834,297           3,940,553
 
 Earnings per share:
  Basic............................       $        0.23       $        0.24       $        0.28       $        0.29
  Diluted..........................       $        0.20       $        0.22       $        0.25       $        0.26
</TABLE>

                                      F-26
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.2
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED & RESTATED BYLAWS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                     EXHIBIT 3.2

                             AMENDED AND RESTATED
                                    BYLAWS

                                      OF

                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
                          (a California corporation)

                                   ARTICLE I
                                    OFFICES

   Section 1.  Principal Offices.  The board of directors shall fix the location
   -----------------------------                                                
of the principal executive office of the corporation at any place within or
outside the State of California.  If the principal executive office is located
outside this state, and the corporation has one or more business offices in this
state, the board of directors shall fix and designate a principal business
office in the State of California.

   Section 2.  Other Offices.  The board of directors may establish other
   -------------------------                                             
business offices at any place or places where the corporation is qualified to do
business.

                                  ARTICLE II
                           MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS

   Section 1.  Place of Meetings.  Meetings of shareholders shall be held at any
   -----------------------------                                                
place within or outside the State of California designated by the board of
directors.  In the absence of any such designation, shareholders' meetings shall
be held at the principal executive office of the corporation.

   Section 2.  Annual Meeting.  The annual meetings of shareholders shall be
   --------------------------                                               
held each year on the third Tuesday of May unless another date shall be
designated by the board of directors.  At each annual meeting directors shall be
elected, and any other proper business may be transacted.

   Section 3.  Special Meeting.  A special meeting of the shareholders may be
   ---------------------------                                               
called at any time by the board of directors, or by the chairman of the board,
or by the president, or by one or more shareholders holding shares in the
aggregate entitled to cast not less than 10% of the votes at the meeting.

   If a special meeting is called by any person or persons other than the board
of directors, the request shall be in writing, specifying the time of such
meeting and the general nature of the business proposed to be transacted, and
shall be delivered personally or sent by registered mail or by telegraphic or
other facsimile transmission to the chairman of the board, the president, any
vice president, or the secretary of the corporation.  The officer receiving the
request shall cause notice to be promptly given to the shareholders entitled to
vote, in accordance with the provisions of Section 4 and 5 of this Article II,
that a meeting will be held at the time requested by the person or persons
calling the meeting, not less than thirty-five (35) nor more than sixty (60)
days after the receipt of the request.  If the notice is not given within twenty
(20) days after receipt of the request, the person or persons requesting the
meeting may give the notice.  Nothing construed as limiting, fixing or affecting
the time when a meeting of shareholders is called by action of the board of
directors may be held.

   Section 4.  Notice of Shareholders' Meeting.  All notices of meetings of
   -------------------------------------------                             
shareholders shall be sent or otherwise given in accordance with Section 5 of
this Article II not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the
date of the meeting.  The notice shall specify the place, date and hour of the
meeting.  The notice shall specify the place, date and hour of the meeting and
(i) in the case of a special meeting, the general nature of the business to be
transacted, or (ii) in the case of an annual meeting, those matters which the
board of directors, at the time of giving the notice, intends to present for
action by the shareholders.  The notice of any meeting at which directors are to
be elected shall include the name of any nominee or nominees whom, at the time
of the notice, management intends to present for election.

   If action is proposed to be taken at any meeting for approval of (i) a
contract or transaction in which a director has a direct or indirect financial
interest, pursuant to Section 310 of the Corporations Code of California, (ii)
an amendment of the articles of incorporation, pursuant to Section 902 of that
Code, (iii) a reorganization of the 
<PAGE>
 
corporation, pursuant to Section 1201 of that Code, (iv) a voluntary dissolution
of the corporation, pursuant to Section 1900 of that Code, with the rights of
outstanding preferred shares, pursuant to Section 2007 of that Code, the notice
shall also state the general nature of that proposal.

   Section 5.  Manner of Giving Notice; Affidavit of Notice.  Notice of any
   --------------------------------------------------------                
meeting of shareholders shall be given either personally or by first-class mail
or telegraphic or other written communication, charges prepaid, addressed to the
shareholder at the address of that shareholder appearing on the books of the
corporation or given by the shareholder to the corporation for the purpose of
notice.  If no such address appears on the corporation's books or is given,
notice shall be deemed to have been given if sent to that shareholder by first-
class mail or telegraphic or other written communication to the corporation's
principal executive office, or if published at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county where that office is located.  Notice shall be
deemed to have given at the time when delivered personally or deposited in the
mail or sent by telegram or the means of written communication.

   If any notice addressed to a shareholder at the address of that shareholder
appearing on the books of the corporation is returned to the corporation by the
United States Postal Service marked to indicate that the United States Postal
Service is unable to deliver the notice to the shareholder at that address, all
future notices or reports shall be deemed to have been duly given without
further mailing if these shall be available to the shareholder on written demand
of the shareholder at the principal executive office of the corporation for a
period of one year from the date of the giving of the notice.

   An affidavit of the mailing or other means of giving any notice of any
shareholders' meeting shall be executed by the secretary, assistant secretary,
or any transfer agent of the corporation giving the notice, and shall be filed
and maintained in the minute book of the corporation.

   Section 6.  Quorum.  The presence in person or by proxy of the holders of a
   ------------------                                                         
majority of the shares entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  The shareholders present
may continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of
enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum, if any action taken (other than
adjournment) is approved by at least a majority of the shares required to
constitute a quorum.

   Section 7.  Adjourned Meeting; Notice.  Any shareholders' meeting, annual or
   -------------------------------------                                       
special, whether or not a quorum is present, may be adjourned from time to time
by the vote of a majority of the shares represented at that meeting, either in
person or by proxy, but in the absence of a quorum, no other business may be
transacted at that meeting, except as provided in Section 6 of this Article II.

   When any meeting of the shareholders, either annual or special, is adjourned
to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if
the time and place are announced at a meeting at which the adjournment is taken,
unless a new record date for the adjourned meeting is fixed, or unless the
adjournment is for more than forty-five (45) days from the date set for the
original meeting, in which case the board of directors shall set a new record
date.  Notice of any such adjourned meeting shall be given to each shareholder
of record entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting in accordance with the
provisions of Sections 4 and 5 of this Article II.  At any adjourned meeting the
corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the
original meeting.

   Section 8.  Voting.  The shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of
   ------------------                                                      
shareholders shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 11
of this Article II, subject to the provisions of Section 702 to 704, inclusive,
of the Corporations Code of California (relating to voting shares held by a
fiduciary, in the name of a corporation, or in joint ownership).  The
shareholders' vote may be by voice vote or by ballot; provided, however, that
any election for directors must be by ballot if demanded by any shareholder
before the voting has begun.  On any matter other than elections of directors,
any shareholder may vote part of the shares in favor of the proposal and refrain
from voting the remaining shares or vote them against the proposal, but, if the
shareholder fails to specify the number of shares which the shareholder is
voting affirmatively, it will be conclusively presumed that the shareholder's
approving vote is with respect to all shares that the shareholder is entitled to
vote.  If a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of the majority of the
shares represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on any 

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
matter (other than the election of directors) shall be the act of the
shareholders, unless the vote of a greater number or voting by classes is
required by California General Corporation Law or by the Articles of
Incorporation.

   Section 9.  Waiver of Notice or Consent by Absent Shareholders.  The
   --------------------------------------------------------------      
transactions of any meeting of shareholders, either annual or special, however
called and noticed, and wherever held, shall be as valid as though had at a
meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum be present either
in person or entitled to vote, who was not present in person or by proxy, signs
a written waiver of notice or a consent to the holding of the meeting, or an
approval of the minutes.  The waiver of notice of consent need not specify
either the business to be transacted or the purpose of any annual or special
meeting of shareholders, except that if action is taken or proposed to be taken
for approval of any of those matters specified in the second paragraph of
Section 4 of this Article II, the waiver of notice or consent shall state the
general nature of the proposal.  All such waivers, consents or approvals shall
be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the
meeting.

   Attendance by a person at a meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice
of that meeting, except when the person objects, at the beginning of the
meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully
called or convened, and except that attendance at a meeting is not a waiver of
any right to object to the consideration of matters not included in the notice
of the meeting if that objection is expressly made at the meeting.

   Section 10.  Shareholder Action By Written Consent Without a Meeting.  Any
   --------------------------------------------------------------------      
action which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of shareholders may
be taken without a meeting and without prior notice, if a consent in writing,
setting forth the action so taken, signed by the holders of outstanding shares
having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to
authorize or take that action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote
on that action were present and voted.  In the case of election of directors,
such a consent shall be effective only if signed by the holders of all
outstanding shares entitled to vote for the election of directors; provided,
however, that a director may be elected at any time to fill a vacancy on the
board of directors that has not been filled by the directors, by the written
consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote
for the election of directors.  All such consents shall be filed with the
secretary of the corporation and shall be maintained in the corporate records.
Any shareholder giving a written consent, or the shareholder's proxy holders, or
a transferee of the shares or a personal representative of the shareholder or
their respective proxy holders, may revoke the consent by a writing received by
the secretary of the corporation before written consents of the number of shares
required to authorize the proposed action have been filed with the secretary.

   If the consents of all shareholders entitled to vote have not been solicited
in writing, and if the unanimous written consent of all such shareholders shall
not have been received, the secretary shall give prompt notice of the corporate
action approved by the shareholders without a meeting.  This notice shall be
given in the manner specified in Section 5 of this Article II.  In the case of
approval of (i) contracts or transactions in which a director has a direct or
indirect financial interest, pursuant to Section 310 of the Corporations Code of
California, (ii) Section 317 of that Code, (iii) a reorganization of the
corporation, pursuant to Section 1201 of that Code, and (iv) a distribution in
dissolution other than in accordance with the rights of outstanding preferred
shares, pursuant to Section 2007 of that Code, the notice shall be given at
least ten (10) days before the consummation of any action authorized by that
approval.

   Section 11.  Record Date for Shareholder Notice, Voting, and Giving Consents.
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
For purposes of determining the shareholders entitled to notice of any meeting
or to vote or entitled to give consent to corporate action without a meeting,
the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be
more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days before the date of any
such meeting nor more than sixty (60) days before any such action without a
meeting, and in this event only shareholders of record on the date so fixed are
entitled to notice and to vote or give consents, as the case may be,
notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the corporation after
the record date, except as otherwise provided in the California General
Corporation Law.

   If the board of directors does not so fix a record date:  (a) the record date
for determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of
shareholders shall be at the close of business on the business day next
preceding the day on which notice is given or, if notice is waived, at the close
of business on the business day next preceding the day on which the meeting was
held; (b) the record date for determining shareholders entitled to give consent
to corporate action in writing without a meeting, (i) when no prior action by
the board has been taken, shall 

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
be the day on which the first written consent is given, or (ii) when prior
action of the board has been taken, shall be at the close of business on the day
on which the board adopts the resolution relating to that action, or the
sixtieth (60th) day before the date of such other action, whichever is later.

   Section 12.  Proxies.  Every person entitled to vote for directors or any
   --------------------                                                     
other matter shall have the right to do so either in person or by one or more
agents authorized by a written proxy signed by the person and filed with the
secretary of the corporation.  A proxy shall be deemed signed if the
shareholder's name is placed on the proxy (whether by manual signature,
typewriting, telegraphic transmission, or otherwise) by the shareholder or
shareholder's attorney in fact.  A validly executed proxy which does not state
that unless (i) revoked by the person executing it, before the vote pursuant to
that proxy, by a writing delivered to the corporation stating that the proxy is
revoked, or by a subsequent proxy executed by, or attendance at the meeting and
voting in person by, the person executing the proxy; or (ii) written notice of
the death or incapacity of the make of the proxy is received by the corporation
before the vote pursuant to that proxy is counted; provided, however, that no
proxy shall be valid after the expiration of eleven (11) months from the date of
the proxy, unless otherwise provided in the proxy.  The revocability of a proxy
that states on its face that it is irrevocable shall be governed by the
provisions of Section 705(e) and 705(f) of the Corporations Code of California.

   Section 13.  Inspectors of Election.  Before any meeting of shareholders, the
   -----------------------------------                                          
Board of Directors may appoint any persons other than nominees for office to act
as inspectors of election at the meeting or its adjournment.  If no inspectors
of election are so appointed, the chairman of the meeting may, and on the
request of any shareholder or shareholder's proxy shall, appoint inspectors of
election at the meeting.  The number of inspectors shall be either one (1) or
three (3).  If inspectors are appointed at a meeting on the request of one or
more shareholders or proxies, the holders of a majority of shares or their
proxies present at the meeting shall determine whether one (1) or three (3)
inspectors are to be appointed.  If any person appointed as inspector fails to
appear or fails or refuses to act, the chairman of the meeting may, and upon the
request of any shareholder or a shareholder's proxy shall, appoint a person to
fill that vacancy.

   These inspectors shall (a) determine the number of shares outstanding and the
voting power of each, the shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a
quorum, and the authenticity, validity, and effect of proxies; (b) receive
votes, ballots, or consents; (c) hear and determine all challenges and questions
in any way arising in connection with the right to vote; (d) count and tabulate
all votes or consents; (e) determine when the polls shall close; and (f) do any
other acts that may be proper to conduct the election or vote with fairness to
all shareholders.

                                  ARTICLE III
                                   DIRECTORS

   Section 1.  Powers.  Subject to any provision of the California General
   ------------------                                                     
Corporation Law and any limitations in the articles of incorporation and these
bylaws relating to action required to be approved by the shareholders or by the
outstanding shares, the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed
and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the
board of directors.

   Section 2.  Number and Qualification of Directors.  The authorized number of
   -------------------------------------------------                           
directors of this corporation shall be not less than five nor more than nine.
The exact number of authorized Directors shall be six until changed, within the
limits specified above, by a bylaw amending this Section 2, duly adopted by the
Board of Directors or by the Shareholders.

   Section 3.  Election and Term of Office of Directors.  Directors shall be
   ----------------------------------------------------                     
elected at each annual meeting of the shareholders to hold office until the next
annual meeting.  Each director, including a director elected to fill a vacancy,
shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which elected and until a
successor has been elected and qualified.

   Section 4.  Vacancies.  Vacancies in the board of directors may be filled by
   ---------------------                                                       
a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum, or by a sole
remaining director, except that a vacancy created by the removal of a director
by the vote or written consent of the shareholders or by court order may be
filled only by the vote of a majority of the shares entitled to vote represented
at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present, or by the 

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
written consent of holders of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to
vote. Each director so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting
of the shareholders and until a successor has been elected and qualified.

   A vacancy or vacancies in the board of directors shall be deemed to exist in
event of the death, resignation or removal of any director, or if the board of
directors by resolution declares vacant the office of a director who has been
declared of unsound mind by an order of court or convicted of a felony, or if
the authorized number of directors is increased, or if any director or directors
are elected, to elect the number of directors to be voted for at that meeting.

   The shareholders may elect a director or directors at any time to fill any
vacancy or vacancies not filled by the directors, but any such election by
written consent shall require the consent of a majority of the outstanding
shares entitled to vote.

   Any director may resign effective upon giving written notice to the chairman
of the board, the president, the secretary or the board of directors of the
corporation, unless the notice specifies a later time for the effectiveness of
such resignation.  If the resignation of a director is effective at a future
time, the board of directors may elect a successor to take office when the
resignation becomes effective.

   No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect or
removing any director prior to the expiration of his term of office.

   Section 5.  Place of Meetings and Meetings by Telephone.  Regular meetings of
   -------------------------------------------------------                      
the board of directors may be held at any place within or outside the State of
California that has been designated from time to time by resolution of the
board.  In the absence of such a designation, regular meetings shall be held at
the principal executive office of the corporation.  Special meetings of the
board may be held at any place within or outside the State of California that
has been designated in the notice of meeting, or, if not stated in the notice or
there is no notice, at the principal executive office of the corporation.  Any
meeting, regular or special, may be held by conference telephone or similar
communication equipment, so long as all directors participating in the meeting
can hear one another, and all such directors shall be deemed to be present in
person at the meeting.

   Section 6.  Annual Meeting.  Immediately following each annual meeting of
   --------------------------                                               
shareholders, the board of directors shall hold a regular meeting for the
purpose of organization, any desired election of officers, and the transaction
of other business.  Notice of this meeting shall not be required.

   Section 7.  Other Regular Meetings.  Other regular meetings of the board of
   ----------------------------------                                         
directors shall be held without call at such time as shall from time to time be
fixed by the board of directors.  Such regular meetings may be held without
notice.

   Section 8.  Special Meetings.  Special Meetings of the board of directors for
   ----------------------------                                                 
any purpose of purposes shall be called at any time by the chairman of the board
or the president or any vice president or the secretary or any two directors.

   Notice of the time and place of special meetings shall be delivered
personally or by telephone to each director or sent by first-class mail or
telegram, charges prepaid, addressed to each director at that director's address
as it is shown on the records of the corporation.  In case the notice is mailed,
it shall be deposited in the United States mail at least four (4) days before
the time of the holding of the meeting.  In case the notice is delivered
personally, or be telephone or telegram, it shall be personally or by telephone
to the telegraph company at least forty-eight (48) hours before the time of the
holding of the meeting.  Any oral notice given personally or by telephone may be
communicated either to the director or to a person at the office of the director
who the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate
it to the director.  The notice need not specify the purpose of the meeting nor
the place if the meeting is to be held at the principal executive office of the
corporation.

   Section 9.  Quorum.  A majority of the authorized number of directors shall
   ------------------                                                         
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except to adjourn as
provided in Section 11 of this Article III.  Every act or decision done or made
by a majority of the directors present at a meeting duly held at which a quorum
is present shall be regarded as 

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
the act of the board of directors, subject to the provisions of Section 310 of
the Corporations Code of California (as to approval of contracts or transactions
in which a director has a direct or indirect material financial interest), and
Section 317(e) of that Code (as to indemnification of directors). A meeting at
which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business
notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors, if any action taken is approved by
at least a majority of the required quorum for that meeting.

   Section 10.  Waiver of Notice.  The transactions of any meeting of the board
   -----------------------------                                               
of directors, however called and noticed or wherever held, shall be as valid as
though had at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice if a quorum is
present and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the directors not
present signs a written waiver of notice, a consent to holding the meeting or an
approval of the minutes.  The waiver of notice or consent need not specify the
purpose of the meeting.  All such waivers, consents, and approvals shall be
filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
Notice of a meeting shall also be deemed given to any director who attends the
meeting without protesting before or at its commencement, the lack of notice to
that director.

   Section 11.  Adjournment.  A majority of the directors present, whether or
   ------------------------                                                  
not constituting a quorum, may adjourn any meeting to another time and place.

   Section 12.  Notice of Adjournment.  Notice of the time and place of holding
   ----------------------------------                                          
an adjourned meeting need not be given, unless the meeting is adjourned for more
than twenty-four hours, in which case notice of the time and place meeting is
adjourned for more than twenty-four house, in which case notice of the time and
place shall be given before the time of the adjourned meeting, in the manner
specified in Section 8 of this Article III, to the directors who were not
present at the time of the adjournment.

   Section 13.  Action Without Meeting.  Any action required or permitted to be
   -----------------------------------                                         
taken by board of directors may be taken without a meeting, if all members of
the board shall individually or collectively consent in writing to that action.
Such action by written consent shall have the same force and effect as a
unanimous vote of the board of directors.  Such written consent or consents
shall be filled with the minutes of the proceedings of the board.

   Section 14.  Fees and Compensation of Directors.  Directors and members of
   -----------------------------------------------                           
committees may receive such compensation, if any, for their services, and such
reimbursement of expenses, as may be fixed or determined by resolution of the
board.  This Section 14 shall not be construed to preclude any director from
serving the corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee, or
otherwise, and receiving compensation for those services.

                                  ARTICLE IV
                                  COMMITTEES

   Section 1.  Committees of Directors.  The board of directors may, by
   -----------------------------------                                 
resolution adopted by a majority of the authorized number of directors,
designate one or more committees, each consisting of two or more directors, to
serve at the pleasure of the board.  The board may designate one or more
directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent
member at any meeting of the committee.  Any committee, to the extent provided
in the resolution of the board, shall have all the authority of the board,
except with respect to:

      (a)  the approval of any action which, under the General Corporation Law
of California, also requires shareholders' approval of the outstanding shares;

      (b)  the filling of vacancies on the board of directors for serving on the
board or on any committee;

      (c)  the fixing of compensation of the directors for serving on the board
or on any committee;

      (d)  the amendment or repeal of bylaws or the adoption of new bylaws;

      (e)  the amendment or repeal of any resolution of the board of directors
which by its express terms is not so amendable or repealable;

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
      (f)  a distribution to the shareholders of the corporation, except at a
rate or in a periodic amount or within a price range determined by the board of
directors; or

      (g)  the appointment of any other committees of the board of directors or
the members of these committees.

   Section 2.  Meetings and Action of Committees.  Meetings and action of
   ---------------------------------------------                         
committees shall be governed by, and held and taken in accordance with, the
provisions of Article III of these Bylaws, Section 5 (Place of Meeting), 7
(Regular Meetings), 8 (Special Meetings and Notice), 9 (Quorum), 10 (Waiver of
Notice), 11 (Adjournment), 12 (Notice of Adjournment), and 13 (Action Without
Meeting), with such changes in the context of those bylaws as are necessary to
substitute the committee and its members for the board of directors and its
members, except that the time of regular meetings of committees may be
determined either by resolution of the board of directors or by resolution of
the committee; special meetings of committees may also be called by resolution
of the board of directors; and notice of all special meetings of committees
shall also be given to all alternate members, who shall have the right to attend
all meetings of the committee.  The board of directors may adopt rules for the
government of any committee not inconsistent with the provisions of these
bylaws.

                                   ARTICLE V
                                   OFFICERS

   Section 1.  Officers.  The officers of the corporation shall be a president
   --------------------                                                       
and secretary, and a treasurer and chief financial officer.  The corporation may
also have, at the discretion of the board of directors, a chairman of the board,
one or more vice presidents, one or more assistant secretaries, one or more
assistant treasurers, and such other officers as may be appointed in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3 of this Article.  Any number of offices may be
held by the same person.

   Section 2.  Election of Officers.  The officers of the corporation, except
   --------------------------------                                          
such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3
or Section 5 of this Article V, shall be chosen by the board of directors, and
each shall serve at the pleasure of the board.

   Section 3.  Subordinate Officers.  The board of directors may appoint, and
   --------------------------------                                          
may empower the president to appoint, such other officers as the business of
corporation may require, each of whom shall hold office, such period, have such
authority and perform such duties as provided in the bylaws or as the board of
directors from time to time determine.

   Section 4.  Removal and Resignation of Officers.  Subject to the rights, if
   -----------------------------------------------                            
any, of an officer under any contract of employment, any officer may be removed,
either without cause, by the board of directors, at any or special meeting of
the board, or, except in case of an officer chosen by the board of directors, by
any officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the board of
directors.

   Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the
corporation.  Any such resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt
of that notice or at any later time specified in that notice; and, unless
otherwise specified in that notice, the acceptance of the resignation is without
prejudice to the rights, if any, of the corporation under any contract to which
the officer is a party.

   Section 5.  Vacancies in Offices.  A vacancy in any office because of death,
   --------------------------------                                            
resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause shall be filled in the
manner prescribed in these bylaws for regular appointments to that office.

   Section 6.  Chairman of the Board.  The chairman of the board, if such an
   ---------------------------------                                        
officer be elected, shall, if present, preside at meetings of the board of
directors and exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may be from
time to time assigned to him by the board of directors or prescribed by the
bylaws.  If there is no president, the chairman of the board shall in addition
be the chief executive officer of the corporation and shall have the powers and
duties prescribed in Section 7 of this Article V.

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
   Section 7.  President.  Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be
   ---------------------                                                        
given by the board of directors to the chairman of the board, if there be such
an officer, and in the absence of any other specifically named chief executive
officer of the corporation, the president shall be the chief executive officer
of the corporation and shall, subject to the control of the board of directors,
have general supervision, direction and control of the business and officers of
the corporation.  He shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and, in
the absence of the chairman of the board, or if there be none, at all meetings
of the board of directors.  Subject to the authority granted to any specifically
designated chief executive officer, the president shall have the general powers
and duties of management usually vested in the office of president of a
corporation, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by
the board of directors or the bylaws.

   Section 8.  Vice President.  In the absence or disability of the president,
   --------------------------                                                 
the vice presidents, if any, in order of their rank as fixed by the board of
directors or, if not ranked, a vice president designated by the board of
directors shall perform all the duties of the president, and when so acting
shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the
president.  The vice presidents shall have such other powers and perform such
other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the
board of directors or the bylaws, and the president, or the chairman of the
board.  A vice president may, if the board of directors so elects, be designated
as the chief executive officer of the corporation.

   Section 9.  Secretary.  The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the
   ---------------------                                                       
principal executive office or such other place as the board of directors,
committees or directors may elect, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions
of directors, committees of directors, and shareholders, with the time and place
of holding, whether regular or special, and, if special, how authorized, the
notice given, the names of those present at directors' meetings, the number of
shares present or represented at shareholders' meetings, and the proceedings.

   The secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive
office or at the office of the corporation's transfer agent or registrar, a
share register, or a duplicate share register, showing the names of the
shareholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each,
the number and date of certificates issued for the same, and the number and date
of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.

   The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all the meetings of
the shareholders and of the board of directors required by the bylaws or by law
to be given, and he shall keep the seal of the corporation if one be adopted, in
safe custody, and shall have such other and perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by the board of directors or by the bylaws.

   Section 10.  Chief Financial Officer.  The chief financial officer shall keep
   ------------------------------------                                         
and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and
records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the
corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts,
disbursements, gains, losses, capital, retained earnings, and shares.  The books
of account shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any director.

   The chief financial officer shall deposit all monies and other valuables in
the name and to the credit of the corporation with such depositories as may be
designated by the board of directors.  He shall disburse the funds of the
corporation as may be ordered by the board of directors, shall render to the
president and directors, whenever they request it, on account of all of his
transactions as chief financial officer and of the financial condition of the
corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as
may be prescribed by the board of directors or the bylaws.

   Section 11.  Disallowance of Compensation and Expense Deductions.  Any
   ----------------------------------------------------------------      
payments made to an officer of the corporation, such as salary, commission,
bonus, interest, rent, travel or entertainment expense incurred by such officer,
which shall be disallowed in whole or in part as a deductible expense by the
Internal Revenue Service or the California Franchise Tax Board, shall be
reimbursed by such officer to the corporation to the full extent of such
disallowance.  It shall be the duty of the directors, as a board, to enforce
payment of such amount disallowed.  In lieu of payment by the officer, subject
to the determination of the directors, proportionate amounts may be withheld
from his future compensation payments until the amount owed to the corporation
has been recovered.

                                   ARTICLE VI

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
                    INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS, OFFICERS,
                          EMPLOYEES, AND OTHER AGENTS

   Section 1.  Agents, Proceedings, and Expenses.  For the purposes of this
   ---------------------------------------------                           
Article, "agent" means any person who is or was a director, officer, employee,
or other agent of this corporation, or is or was serving at the request of this
corporation as a director, officer, employee, or agent of another foreign or
domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or
was a director, officer, employee, or agent of a foreign or domestic corporation
which was a predecessor corporation of this corporation or of another enterprise
at the request of such predecessor corporation; "proceeding" means any
threatened, pending or completed action or proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
administrative, or investigative; and "expenses" includes, without limitation,
attorneys' fees and any expenses of establishing a right to indemnification
under Section 4 or Section 5(c) of this Article.

   Section 2.  Actions Other than by the Corporation.  This corporation shall
   -------------------------------------------------                         
indemnify any person who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party,
to any proceeding (other than an action by or in the right of this corporation)
by reason of the fact that such person is or was an agent of this corporation,
against expenses, judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and
reasonably incurred in connection with such proceeding if that person acted in
good faith and in a manner that person reasonably believed to be in the best
interests of this corporation and, in the case of a criminal proceeding, had no
reasonable cause to believe the conduct of that person was unlawful.  The
termination of any proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or
upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent shall not, of itself, create a
presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which the
person reasonably believed to be in the best interests of this corporation or
that the person had reasonable cause to believe that the person's conduct was
unlawful.

   Section 3.  Actions by the Corporation.  This corporation shall indemnify any
   --------------------------------------                                       
person who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party, to any
threatened, pending or completed action by or in the right of this corporation
to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that person is or was
an agent of this corporation, against expenses actually and reasonably incurred
by that person in connection with the defense or settlement of that action if
that person acted in good faith, in a manner that person believed to be in the
best interests of this corporation and with such case, including reasonable
inquiry, as an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under
similar circumstances.  No indemnification shall be made under this Section 3:

      (a)  In respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which that person
shall have been adjudged to be liable to this corporation in the performance of
that person's duty to this corporation, unless and only to the extent that the
court in which that action was brought shall determine upon application that, in
view of all the circumstances of the case, that person is fairly and reasonably
entitled to indemnity for the expenses which the court shall determine;

      (b)  Of amounts paid in settling or otherwise disposing of a threatened or
action, with or without court or pending approval;

      (c)  Of expenses incurred in defending a threatened or pending action
which is settled or otherwise disposed of without court approval.

   Section 4.  Successful Defense by Agent.  To the extent that an agent of this
   ---------------------------------------                                      
corporation has been successful on the merits in defense of any proceeding
referred to in Sections 2 or 3 of this Article, or in defense of any claim,
issue, or matter therein, the agent shall be indemnified against expenses
actually and reasonable incurred by the agent in connection therewith.

   Section 5.  Required Approval.  Except as provided in Section 4 of this
   -----------------------------                                          
Article, any indemnification under this Article shall be made by this
corporation only if authorized in the specific case on a determination the
indemnification of the agent is proper in the circumstances because the agent
has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 2 or 3 of this
Article, by:

      (a)  A majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who are not
parties to the proceeding;

                                       9
<PAGE>
 
      (b)  Approval by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of this
corporation entitled to vote represented at a duly held meeting at which a
quorum is present or by the written consent of holders of a majority of the
outstanding shares entitled to vote.  For this purpose, the shares owned by the
person to be indemnified shall not be considered outstanding or entitled to vote
thereon; or

      (c)  The court in which the proceeding is or was pending, on application
made by this corporation or the agent of the attorney or other person rendering
services in connection with the defense, whether or not such application by the
agent, attorney, or other person is opposed by this corporation.

   Section 6.  Advance of Expenses.  Expenses incurred in defending any
   -------------------------------                                     
proceeding may be advanced by this corporation before the final disposition of
the proceeding on receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the agent to
repay the amount of the advance unless it shall be determined ultimately that
the agent is entitled to be indemnified as authorized in this Article.

   Section 7.  Other Contractual Rights.  Nothing contained in this Article
   ------------------------------------                                    
shall affect any right to indemnification to which persons other than directors
and officers of this corporation or any subsidiary hereof may be entitled by
contract or otherwise.

   Section 8.  Limitations.  No indemnification or advance shall be made under
   -----------------------                                                    
this Article, except as provided in Section 4 or Section 5(c), in any
circumstance where it appears:

      (a)  That it would be inconsistent with a provision of the articles, a
resolution of the shareholders, or an agreement in effect at the time of the
accrual of the alleged cause of action asserted in the proceeding in which the
expenses were incurred or other amounts were paid, which prohibits or otherwise
limits indemnification; or

      (b)  That it would be inconsistent with any condition expressly imposed by
a court in approving a settlement.

   Section 9.  Insurance.  Upon and in the event of a determination by the board
   ---------------------                                                        
of directors of this corporation to purchase such insurance, this corporation
shall purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any agent of the corporation
against any liability asserted against or incurred by the agent in such capacity
or arising out of the agent's status as such whether or not this corporation
would have the power to indemnify the agent against that liability under the
provisions of this Section.

   Section 10.  Fiduciaries of Corporate Employee Benefit Plan.  This Article
   -----------------------------------------------------------               
does not apply to any proceeding against any trustee, investment manager, or
other fiduciary of any employee benefit plan in that person's capacity as such,
even though that person may also be an agent of the corporation as defined in
Section 1 of this Article.  Nothing contained in this Article shall limit any
right to indemnification to which such a trustee, investment manager, or other
fiduciary may be entitled by contract or otherwise, which shall be enforceable
to the extent permitted by applicable law other than this Article.

                                  ARTICLE VII
                              RECORDS AND REPORTS

   Section 1.  Maintenance and Inspection of Share Register.  The corporation
   --------------------------------------------------------                  
shall keep at its principal executive office, or at the office of its transfer
agent or registrar, if either be appointed and as determined by resolution of
the board of directors, a record of its shareholders, giving the names and
addresses of all shareholders and the number and class of shares held by each
shareholder.

   Shareholder or shareholders of the corporation holding at least five percent
(5%) in the aggregate of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation may
(i) inspect and copy the records of shareholders' names and addresses and
shareholdings during usual business hours on five (5) days' prior written demand
on the corporation, and (ii) obtain from the transfer agent of the corporation,
on written demand and on the tender of such transfer agent's usual charges for
such list, a list of the shareholders' names and addresses who are entitled to
vote for the election of directors, and their shareholdings, as of the most
recent record date for which that list has been compiled 

                                       10
<PAGE>
 
or as of a date specified by the shareholder after the date of demand. This list
shall be made available to any such shareholder by the transfer agent on or
before the later of five (5) days after the demand is received or the date
specified in the demand as the date as of which the list is to be compiled. The
record of shareholders shall also be open to inspection on the written demand of
any shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate, at any time during
usual business hours, for a purpose reasonably related to the holder's interests
as a shareholder of a voting trust certificate. Any inspection and copying under
this Section 1 may be made in person or by an agent or attorney of the
shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate making the demand.

   Section 2.  Maintenance and Inspection of Bylaws.  The corporation shall keep
   ------------------------------------------------                             
at its principal executive office, or if its principal executive office is not
in the State of California, at its principal business office in this state, the
original or a copy of the bylaws as amended to date, which shall be open to
inspection by the shareholders at all reasonable times during office hours.  If
the principal executive office of the corporation is outside the State of
California and the corporation has no principal business office in this state,
the secretary shall, upon the written request of any shareholder, furnish to
that shareholder a copy of the bylaws as amended to date.

   Section 3.  Maintenance and Inspection of Other Corporate Records.  The
   -----------------------------------------------------------------      
accounting books and records and minutes of proceedings of the shareholders and
the board of directors and any committee or committees of the board of directors
shall be kept at such place or places designated by the board of directors, or,
in the absence of such designation, at the principal executive office of the
corporation.  The minutes shall be kept in written form and the accounting books
and records shall be kept either in written form or in any other form capable of
being converted into written form.  The minutes and accounting books and records
shall be open to inspection upon the written demand of any shareholder or holder
of a voting trust certificate, at any reasonable time during usual business
hours, for a purpose reasonably related to the holder's interests as a
shareholder or as the holder of a voting trust certificate.  The inspection may
be made in person or by an agent or attorney, and shall include the right to
copy and make extracts.  These rights of inspection shall extend to the records
of each subsidiary corporation of the corporation.

   Section 4.  Inspection by Directors.  Every director shall have the absolute
   -----------------------------------                                         
right at any reasonable time to inspect and copy all books, records and
documents of every kind and the physical properties of the corporation and each
of its subsidiary corporations.  This inspection by a director may be made in
person or by agent or attorney and the right of inspection includes the right to
copy and make extracts of documents.

   Section 5.  Annual Report to Shareholders.  The board of directors shall
   -----------------------------------------                               
cause an annual report to be sent to the shareholders not later than one hundred
twenty (120) days after the close of the fiscal year adopted by the corporation.
This report shall be sent at least fifteen (15) days before the annual meeting
of shareholders to be held during the next fiscal year and in the manner
specified in this Section 5 of Article II of the bylaws for giving notice to
shareholders of the corporation.  The annual report shall contain a balance
sheet as of the end of the fiscal year and an income statement and statement of
changes in financial position for the fiscal year, accompanied by any report of
independent accounts or, if there is no such report, the certificate of an
authorized officer of the corporation that the statements were prepared without
audit from the books and records of the corporation.

   Section 6.  Financial Statements.  A copy of any annual financial statement
   --------------------------------                                           
and any income statement of the corporation for each quarterly period of each
fiscal year, and any accompanying balance sheet of the corporation as of the end
of each such period, that has been prepared by the corporation shall be kept on
file in the principal executive office of the corporation for twelve (12) months
and each such statement shall be exhibited at all reasonable times to any
shareholder demanding an examination of any such statement or a copy shall be
mailed to any such shareholder.

   If a shareholder or shareholders holding at least five percent (5%) of the
outstanding shares of any class of stock of the corporation makes a written
request to the corporation for an income statement of the corporation for the
three-month, six-month or nine-month period of the then current fiscal year
ended more than thirty (30) days before the date of the request, and a balance
sheet of the corporation as of the end of that period, the chief financial
officer shall cause that statement to be prepared, if not already prepared, and
shall deliver personally or mail that statement or statements to the person
making the request within thirty (30) days after the receipt of the old request.
If the corporation has not sent to the shareholders its annual report for the
last fiscal year, this report shall likewise be delivered or mailed to the
shareholder or shareholders within thirty (30) days after the request.

                                       11
<PAGE>
 
   The corporation shall also, on the written request of any shareholder, mail
to the shareholder a copy of the last annual, semi-annual, or quarterly income
statement which it has prepared, and a balance sheet as of the end of that
period.

   The quarterly income statements and balance sheets referred to in this
section shall be accompanied by the report, if any, of any independent
accountants engaged by the corporation or the certificate of an authorized
officer of the corporation that the financial statements were prepared without
audit from the books and records of the corporation.

   Section 7.  Annual Statement of General Information.  The corporation shall,
   ---------------------------------------------------                         
during the period commencing on March 1 ending on August 31 of each year, file
with the Secretary of State of the State of California, on the prescribed form,
a statement setting forth the authorized number of directors, the names and
complete business address or residence address of all incumbent directors, the
names and complete business or residence addresses of the chief executive
officer, secretary, and chief financial officer, the street address of its
principal executive office and principal business office in the state, and the
general type of business constituting the principal business activity of the
corporation, together with a designation of the agent of the corporation for the
purpose of service of process, all in compliance with Section 1502 of the
Corporations Code of California.

                                 ARTICLE VIII
                           GENERAL CORPORATE MATTERS

   Section 1.  Record Date for Purposes Other Than Notice and Voting.  For
   -----------------------------------------------------------------      
purposes of determining the shareholders entitled to receive payment of any
dividend or other dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or
entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any other lawful action (other
than action by shareholders by written consent without a meeting), which shall
not be more than sixty (60) days before any such action, and in that case only
shareholders of record on the date so fixed are entitled to receive the
dividend, distribution, or allotment of rights or to exercise the rights, as the
case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the
corporation after the record date so fixed, except as otherwise provided in the
California General Corporation Law.

   If the board of directors does not so fix a record date, the record date for
determining shareholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business
on the day on which the board adopts the applicable resolution or the sixtieth
(60th) day before the date of that action, whichever is later.

   Section 2.  Checks, Drafts, Evidences of Indebtedness.  All checks, drafts or
   -----------------------------------------------------                        
other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness,
issued in the name of or payable to the corporation, shall be signed or endorsed
by such person or persons and in such manner as, from time to time, shall be
determined by resolution of the board of directors.

   Section 3.  Corporate Contracts and Instruments; How Executed.  The board of
   -------------------------------------------------------------               
directors, except as otherwise provided in these bylaws, may authorize any
officer or officers, agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any
instrument in the name of and on behalf of the corporation, and this authority
may be general or confined to specific instances; and, unless so authorized or
ratified by the board of directors or within the agency power of an officer, no
officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the
corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render
it liable for any purpose or for any amount.

   Section 4.  Certificate for Shares.  A certificate or certificates for shares
   ----------------------------------                                           
of the capital stock of the corporation shall be issued to each shareholder when
any of these shares are fully paid, and the board of directors may authorize the
issuance of certificates of shares as party paid provided that these
certificates shall state the amount of the consideration to be paid for them and
the amount paid.  All certificates shall be signed in the name of the
corporation by the chairman of the board or vice chairman of the board or the
president or vice president and by the chief financial officer or an assistant
treasurer or the secretary or any assistant secretary, certifying the number of
shares and the class or series owned by the shareholder.  Any or all of the
signatures on the certificate may be facsimile.  In case any officer, transfer
agent, or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed
on a certificate shall have ceased to be that officer, transfer agent, or
registrar before that certificate is issued, it may be 

                                       12
<PAGE>
 
issued by the corporation with the same effect as if that person were an
officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue.

   Section 5.  Lost Certificates.  Except as provided in this Section 5, no new
   -----------------------------                                               
certificates for shares shall be issued to replace an old certificate unless the
latter is surrendered to the corporation and canceled at the same time.  The
board of directors may, in case any share certificate or certificate for any
other security is lost, stolen, or destroyed, authorize the issuance of a
replacement certificate on such terms and conditions as the board may require,
including provision for indemnification of the corporation secured by a bond or
other adequate security sufficient to protect the corporation against any claim
that may be made against it, including any expense or liability, on account of
the alleged loss, theft, or destruction of the certificate or the issuance of
the replacement certificate.

   Section 6.  Representation of Shares of Other Corporation.  The chairman of
   ---------------------------------------------------------                  
the board, the president, or any vice president, or any other person authorized
by resolution of the board of directors or by any of the foregoing designated
officers, is authorized to vote on behalf of the corporation any and all shares
of any other corporation or corporations, foreign or domestic, standing in the
name of the corporation.  The authority granted to these officers to vote or
represent on behalf of the corporation any and all shares held by the
corporation in any other corporation or corporations may be exercised either by
such officers in person or by any other person authorized to do so by proxy duly
executed by these officers.

   Section 7.  Construction and Definitions.  Unless the context requires
   ----------------------------------------                              
otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction, and definitions in the
California General Corporation Law shall govern the construction of these
bylaws.  Without limiting the generality of this provision, the singular, and
the term "person" includes both a corporation and a natural person.

                                  ARTICLE IX
                                  AMENDMENTS

   Section 1.  Amendment by Shareholders.  New bylaws may be adopted or these
   -------------------------------------                                     
bylaws may be amended or repealed by the vote or written consent of holders of a
majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote; provided, however, that if
the articles of incorporation of the corporation set forth the number of
authorized directors of the corporation, the authorized number of directors may
be changed only by an amendment of the articles of incorporation.

   Section 2.  Amendment by Directors.  Subject to the right of shareholders as
   ----------------------------------                                          
provided in Section 1 of this Article IX, to adopt, amend, or repeal by laws,
bylaws may be adopted, amended, or repealed by the board of directors, provided,
however, that the board of directors may adopt a bylaw or amendment of a bylaw
changing the authorized number of directors only for the purpose of fixing the
exact number of directors within the limits specified in the articles of
incorporation or in Section 2 of Article III of these bylaws.

                                       13
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.2
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>1997 LONG TERM INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.2

                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.
                      1997 Long-Term Incentive Stock Plan

1.   PURPOSES OF THE PLAN

     The purposes of the 1997 Long-Term Incentive Stock Plan (the "Plan") of
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc., a California corporation (the "Company") are
to:  promote the interests of the Company and its stockholders by strengthening
the Company's ability to attract and retain highly competent officers and other
key employees; permit the awarding of opportunities for Plan participants to be
rewarded using stock-based incentives; and to provide a means to encourage stock
ownership and proprietary interest in the Company by the recipients of awards
made under the Plan.

2.   DEFINITIONS

     a)   "1934 Act" means the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.

     b)   "Award" means an Option (including an ISO), an SAR, a stock Award, a
stock payment, any other award made pursuant to the terms of the Plan, or any
combination of them, as described in and granted under the Plan.

     c)   "Board" means the board of directors of the Company.

     d)   "Change of Control" is defined in Section 11.

     e)   "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including
any rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.

     f)   "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board or such
other committee as may be appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.

     g)   "Company" means Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc., a California
corporation.

     h)   "Eligible Person" means any natural person who at the time of an Award
(i) is an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary, or (ii) is an employee of a
business acquired by or an entity merged into the Company or any Subsidiary;
provided, however, that with respect to an Award of ISOs, an "Eligible Person"
means only a natural person who is at the time of grant an employee of the
Company or of a corporation to which the Company is a parent corporation as
defined in Section 424 of the Code, or successor provision.

     i)   "Fair Market Value" means the average of the high and low selling
prices of a Share as reported in The Wall Street Journal (or other readily
available public source designated by the Committee) for the last trading day
for which such prices are available prior to the applicable transaction date
under the Plan. If the Committee determines that there is no readily available
source of information regarding transactions in Shares, then Fair Market Value
shall mean the fair market value of a Share as determined by the Committee.

     j)   "ISO" means an incentive stock option as defined in Section 422 of the
Code.

     k)   "Option" means an Award under the Plan of an option to purchase
Shares, and includes ISO Awards and options that do not meet the requirements of
Section 422 of the Code.

     l    ) "Participant" means an Eligible Person who has been granted an Award
under the Plan. 

     m)   "Plan Year" means a twelve-month period beginning with January 1 of
each year, commencing with January 1, 1997.

     n)   "Prior Plan" means the Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc. 1991 Stock
Option Plan.

     o)   "SAR" means a stock appreciation right.

     p)   "Shares" means the common stock of the Company, no par value.

     q)   "Subsidiary" mean any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled
by the Company, or any entity, including an acquired entity, in which the
Company has a significant equity interest, as determined by the Committee.

3.   EFFECTIVE DATE OF PLAN AND DURATION OF PLAN

     The Plan shall become effective upon its adoption by the Board.  Any Awards
hereunder may be made immediately upon such effectiveness; provided, however,
(i) that the Plan and any such Awards shall be void ab initio if the
shareholders of the Company do not approve the Plan within one year after its
adoption by the Board, and (ii) no ISO or 
<PAGE>
 
SAR may be exercised prior to shareholder approval. Unless previously terminated
by the Board of Directors, the Plan shall expire at the close of business on
April 30, 2007.

4.   PLAN ADMINISTRATION

     a)   Committee -- The Committee shall administer the Plan. The Committee
shall comprise two or more members of the Board, each of whom shall be both (i)
a non-employee director within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the 1934 Act and
(ii) an outside director within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code;
provided, however, that the Board may by resolution specifically declaring that
compliance with said restrictions of Rule 16b-3 or Section 162(m), or both, is
no longer necessary or advisable, name to the Committee individuals who do not
meet such definitions. Each member of the Committee shall serve for such term as
the Board may determine, subject to removal by the Board at any time.

     b)   Committee Authority -- The Committee shall have full and exclusive
authority to interpret the Plan and to adopt such rules, regulations and
guidelines for carrying out the Plan as it may deem necessary or proper, all of
which authority shall be executed in the best interests of the Company and in
keeping with the provisions and objectives of the Plan. Without limiting the
preceding grant of authority, the Committee shall have the authority (i) to
select Award recipients, (ii) to establish all Award terms and conditions, (iii)
to adopt procedures and regulations governing Awards, (iv) to approve forms of
Award agreements for use under this Plan, (v) to amend the terms of any
outstanding Award, including a reduction in the exercise price of any Option or
SAR to reflect a decrease in Fair Market Value, subject to consent of the
Participant to the extent required by the applicable Award agreement, (vi) to
construe and interpret the Plan and any Award agreements, and (vii) to make all
other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of this Plan,
including the authority in the event of a spin-off or other corporate
transaction to replace an Award under the Plan with an award from another issuer
or plan or an award relating to property other than Shares. All decisions made
by the Committee shall be conclusive, final and binding on all persons affected
by such decisions.

     c)   No member of the Committee shall be liable for any action or
determination with respect to the Plan, and the members shall be entitled to
indemnification and reimbursement in the manner provided in the Company's
Articles of Incorporation and its bylaws, as amended. In the performance of its
functions under the Plan, the Committee shall be entitled to rely upon
information and advice furnished by the Company's officers, accountants, counsel
and any other party the Committee deems necessary, and no member of the
Committee shall be liable for any action taken or not taken in reliance upon any
such advice.

5.   PARTICIPATION

     The Committee may from time to time grant Awards under the Plan to any
Eligible Person.  The Committee may impose such terms and conditions on any such
Award as the Committee may find advisable.

6.   AVAILABLE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK

     a)   Subject to any adjustment pursuant to Section 6(c), grants of Awards
are subject to the following limitations:

          (i)    the aggregate number of Shares as to which Awards may be
     granted shall not exceed 1,500,000.

          (ii)   In addition, awards may be granted with respect to the
following: any Shares available for grants under the Prior Plan that have not
been committed for issuance under grants made under the Prior Plan; any Shares
that are represented by grants or portions of grants made under the Plan or the
Prior Plan that are forfeited, expire or are canceled without the issuance of
Shares; and any Shares that may be tendered, either actually or by attestation,
by a person as full or partial payment made to the Company in connection with
the exercise of any stock option under the Plan or the Prior Plan.

          (iii)  The aggregate number of Shares that may be represented by
Awards granted to any one individual under Sections 7(b), 7(c), 7(d) and 7(e) of
the Plan shall not exceed 750,000 over the life of the Plan.

          (iv)   The aggregate number of Shares that may be used in settlement
of Awards pursuant to Section 7(d) of the Plan shall not exceed 30% of total
number of Shares available under this Section 6(a).

     b)   Exclusions and Source of Shares -- Any Shares issued, and any Awards
that are granted through the assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding
awards previously granted by an acquired entity shall not be counted against the
Shares available for Awards under the Plan.  No fractional Shares shall be
issued under the Plan.  Cash may be paid in lieu of any fractional Shares in
settlements of awards under the Plan.

     c)   Adjustments -- In the event of any stock dividend, stock split,
combination or exchange of equity securities, merger, consolidation,
recapitalization, spin-off or other distribution (other than normal cash
dividends) of Company's assets to stockholders, or any other change affecting
Shares or Share price the Committee in its discretion may 

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
make such proportionate adjustments as it may deem appropriate to reflect such
change with respect to: (i) the limitations on the numbers of Shares that may be
issued and represented by Awards as set forth in Section 6(a); (ii) each
outstanding Award; and (iii) the exercise price per Share for any outstanding
Options, SARs or similar Awards.

7.   AWARDS

     a)   General -- The Committee shall determine the type or types of
Award(s), if any, to be made to each Eligible Person. Awards may be granted
singly, in combination or in tandem. Awards also may be made in combination or
in tandem with, in replacement of, as alternatives to grants or rights under the
Plan or any other employee compensation plan of the Company, including the plan
of any acquired entity. The types of Awards that may be granted under the Plan
are:

     b)   Stock Options -- An Option shall represent a right to purchase a
specified number of Shares during a specified period as determined by the
Committee. The purchase price per Share shall be as specified in the Committee
resolution granting same, or, in the absence of any specification, shall be the
Fair Market Value of one Share. The Committee shall designate each Option as an
ISO or as an Option other than an ISO. The Shares covered by an Option may be
purchased, in accordance with the applicable Award agreement , by cash payment
or any other method permitted by the Committee, which other methods may include
(i) tender (either actually or by attestation) of Shares valued at the Fair
Market Value at the date of exercise; (ii) authorizing a third party to sell the
Shares (or a sufficient portion thereof) acquired upon exercise of a stock
option, and assigning for delivery to the Company a sufficient amount of the
sale proceeds to pay for all the Shares acquired through such exercise and any
tax withholding obligations resulting from such exercise; (iii) delivery of the
Participant's promissory note with such recourse, interest, term, security and
other provisions as the Committee deems appropriate, or (iv) any combination of
the above. Unless some other method of payment is explicitly authorized, either
by resolution of the Committee or the terms of the written Option agreement,
payment for Shares shall be by delivery of cash to the Company prior to the
issuance of such Shares. The Committee may grant Options that provide for the
grant of a subsequent restoration Option if the exercise price has been paid for
by tendering Shares to the Company. Any restoration Option may cover up to the
number of Shares tendered in exercising the predecessor Option, with the Option
purchase price set at the then-current Fair Market Value, and the term of such
restoration Option may not extend beyond the remaining term of the original
option.

     c)   SARs -- An SAR shall represent a right to receive a payment, in cash,
Shares or a combination, equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of a
specified number of Shares on the date the SAR is exercised over the Fair Market
Value on the date the SAR was granted as set forth in the applicable Award
agreement; except that if an SAR is granted retroactively in tandem with or in a
substitution for a stock option, the designated Fair Market Value in the
applicable Award agreement may be the Fair Market Value on the date such stock
option was granted.

     d)   Stock Awards -- A stock Award shall represent an Award made in Shares
or denominated in units equivalent in value to Shares. All or part of any stock
Award may be subject to conditions and restrictions established by the
Committee, and set forth in the Award agreement, which may include, but are not
limited to, continuous service with the Company, the achievement of performance
goals, or both. The vesting period of any stock Award will be not less than six
months. The performance criteria that the Committee may use in granting stock
Awards contingent on performance goals for officers to whom Section (S)162(m) of
the Code is applicable shall consist of Fair Market Value of Shares, earnings,
return on equity, and revenues. The Committee may select one criterion or
multiple criteria for measuring performance, and the measurement may be based on
absolute Company or business unit performance or based on performance as
compared with other companies.

     e)   Stock Payment -- A Stock Payment shall represent an issuance of Shares
as payment for compensation which otherwise would have been delivered in cash
(including without limitation any compensation that is intended to qualify as
performance-based compensation for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code). No
minimum vesting period need apply to Shares issued as a Stock Payment. Any
Shares used for such payment will be valued at their Fair Market Value at the
time of payment and shall be subject to such restrictions (including without
limitation restrictions on transfer), if any, and other terms and conditions as
may be determined by the Committee at the time of payment.

8.   DIVIDENDS AND DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS

     The Committee may provide that any Awards may earn dividends or dividend
equivalents, which shall not be deemed earned in the absence of explicit
provision therefor.  Such dividends or dividend equivalents may be paid
currently or may be credited to a Participant's account.  Any crediting of
dividends or dividend equivalents may be subject to such restrictions and
conditions as the Committee may establish, including reinvestment in additional
Shares or share equivalents.

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
9.   PAYMENTS AND PAYMENT DEFERRALS

     Payment of Awards may be in the form of cash, Shares, other Awards or
combinations thereof as the Committee shall determine, and with such
restrictions as it may impose.  The Committee also may require or permit
Participants to elect to defer the issuance of Shares from Stock Options or
Stock Awards or the settlement of Awards in cash under such rules and procedures
as it may establish under the Plan.  It also may provide that deferred
settlements include the payment or crediting of interest on the deferred
amounts, or the payment or crediting of dividend equivalents where the deferred
amounts are denominated in Share equivalents.  In addition, the Committee may
stipulate in an Award agreement, either at time of grant or by subsequent
amendment, that a payment or portion of a payment of an Award be delayed in the
event that Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor or similar provision of
the Code affecting tax deductibility) would operate to disallow a tax deduction
by the Company for all or a portion of such payment.  The period of any such
delay in payment shall be until the payment, or portion thereof, is tax
deductible, or such earlier date as the Committee may determine.

     Shares shall not be issued pursuant to an Award unless the issuance and
delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto would comply with all applicable laws,
and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with
respect to such compliance.  The Company shall have no obligation to cause
compliance with any applicable law.  In particular, but without limitation, the
Company shall have no obligation to register under the Securities Act of 1933
the Shares issuable pursuant to any Award.

     As a condition to the issuance of Shares to a Participant, the Company may
require the Participant to represent and warrant at the time of any such
issuance that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any
present intention to sell or distribute such Shares if, in the opinion of
counsel for the Company, such a representation is required by any applicable
law.

10.  TRANSFERABILITY

     Awards under the Plan shall not be transferable or assignable other than by
will or the laws of descent and distribution, except that the Committee may
provide for the transferability of particular Awards, other than ISOs:

     a)   by gift or other transfer to (i) any trust or estate in which the
original Award recipient or such person's spouse or other immediate relative has
a beneficial interest; or (ii) a spouse or other immediate relative, provided,
however, that the Participant continues to have substantial beneficial interest
in the Shares covered by the Award after such transfer; or

     b)   pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order.

     In the event that a Participant terminates employment with the Company or
any Subsidiary to assume a position with a governmental, charitable, educational
or similar non-profit institution, the Committee may subsequently authorize a
third party, including but not limited to a "blind" trust, to act on behalf of
and for the benefit of such Participant regarding any outstanding Award held by
the Participant subsequent to such termination of employment.  If so permitted
by the Committee, a Participant may designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries to
exercise the rights of the Participant and receive any distribution under the
Plan upon the death of the Participant.

11.  CHANGE OF CONTROL

     a)   In order to maintain the Participants' rights in the event of a Change
of Control, the Committee in its sole discretion may, either at the time an
Award is made hereunder or at any time prior to, or coincident with or after the
time of a Change of Control:

          i)    provide for the acceleration of any time periods relating to the
exercise or realization of such Awards so that such Awards may be exercised or
realized in full on or before a date fixed by the Committee;

          ii)    provide for the purchase of such Awards, upon the Participant's
request, for an amount of cash equal to the amount which could have been
obtained upon the exercise or realization of such rights had such Awards been
currently exercisable or payable;

          iii)   make such adjustment to the Awards then outstanding as the
Committee deems appropriate to reflect such transaction or change; or

          iv)    cause the Awards then outstanding to be assumed, or new rights
substituted therefore, by the surviving corporation in such change.

     b)   The Committee may, in its discretion, include such further provisions
and limitations in any agreement documenting such Awards as it may deem
equitable and in the best interests of the Company.

     c)   A "Change of Control" shall be deemed to occur if and when:

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
          i)     any person, including a "person" as such term is used in
Section 14(d)(2) of the 1934 Act (a "Person"), is or becomes a beneficial owner
(as such term is defined in Rule 13d-3 under the 1934 Act), directly or
indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 25% or more of the
combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities, but
excluding any such person who holds such voting power as of the date of adoption
of the Plan;

          ii)    any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the
Company is adopted by its shareholders;

          iii)   individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board
(the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority
of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director
subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the
Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the
directors then constituting the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though
such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this
purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a
result of either an actual or threatened election contest (as such terms are
used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the 1934 Act) or other
actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a
Person other than the Board;

          iv)    all or substantially all or the assets of the Company are sold,
liquidated or distributed; or

          v)     there occurs a reorganization, merger, consolidation or other
corporate transaction involving the Company (a "Transaction"), in each case,
with respect to which the shareholders of the Company immediately prior to such
Transaction do not, immediately after the Transaction, own more than 50 percent
of the combined voting power of the Company or other corporation resulting from
such Transaction.

     d)   Any good faith determination by the Incumbent Board of whether a
Change of Control within the meaning of this definition has occurred shall be
conclusive.

12.  AWARD AGREEMENTS

     Awards under the Plan shall be evidenced by agreements that set forth the
terms, conditions and limitations for each Award, which may include the term of
the Award (except that in no event shall the term of any ISO exceed a period of
ten years from the date of its grant), the provisions applicable in the event
the Participant's employment terminates, and the Company's authority
unilaterally or bilaterally to amend, modify, suspend, cancel or rescind any
Award.  The Committee need not require the execution of any such Agreement by
the Participant, in which case acceptance of the Award by the Participant shall
constitute agreement by the Participant to the terms of the Award.

13.  PLAN AMENDMENT

     The Board may at any time amend, suspend or terminate the Plan as it deems
necessary or appropriate to better achieve the purposes of the Plan, except that
the Board may not, without the approval of the Company's stockholders,
materially increase the number of shares available for issuance in accordance
with Section 6 of the Plan.

14.  TAX WITHHOLDING

     The Company shall have the right to deduct from any settlement of an Award
made under the Plan, including the delivery or vesting of Shares, a sufficient
amount to cover withholding of any federal, state or local taxes required by law
or such greater amount of withholding as the Committee shall determine from time
to time, or to take such other action as may be necessary to satisfy any such
withholding obligations.  If the Committee permits or requires Shares to be used
to satisfy required tax withholding, such Shares shall be valued at the Fair
Market Value as of the tax recognition date for such Award.  No Shares or other
property shall be delivered under the Plan to any Participant or other person
until such Participant or other person has made arrangements acceptable to the
Committee for the satisfaction of any foreign, federal, state, or local income
and employment tax withholding obligations, including, without limitation,
obligations incident to the receipt of shares or the disqualifying disposition
of shares received on exercise of an ISO.  Upon exercise of an Option, the
Company shall withhold or collect from the Participant an amount sufficient to
satisfy such tax obligations.

15.  OTHER BENEFIT AND COMPENSATION PROGRAMS

     Unless otherwise specifically determined by the Committee, settlements of
Awards received by participants under the Plan shall not be deemed a part of a
participant's regular, recurring compensation for purposes of calculating
payments or benefits from any Company benefit plan or severance program.
Further, the Company may adopt other compensation programs, plans or
arrangements as it deems appropriate or necessary.

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
16.  UNFUNDED PLAN

     Unless otherwise determined by the Board, the Plan shall be unfunded and
shall not create (or be construed to create) a trust or a separate fund or
funds.  The Plan shall not establish any fiduciary relationship between the
Company and any participant or other person.  To the extent any person holds any
rights by virtue of an Award granted under the Plan, such rights shall
constitute general unsecured liabilities of the Company and shall not confer
upon any Participant any right, title or interest in any assets of the Company.

17.  USE OF PROCEEDS

     The cash proceeds received by the Company from the issuance of Shares
pursuant to the exercise of stock options or the settlement of other Awards
under the Plan may be used for general corporate purposes.

18.  REGULATORY APPROVALS

     The implementation of the Plan, the grant of any Award under the Plan, and
the issuance of Shares upon the exercise or settlement of any Award shall be
subject to the Company's receiving all approvals and permits required by
regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over the Plan, Awards or the Shares
issued pursuant to Awards.

19.  FUTURE RIGHTS

     No person shall have any claim or rights to be granted an Award under the
Plan, and no Participant shall have any rights under the Plan to be retained in
the employment of the Company.  Likewise, participation in the Plan will not in
any way affect the Company's right to terminate the employment of the
Participant at any time with or without cause.  Any discretionary authority held
by the Committee or the Board shall not give rise to any duty on the part of
such body to exercise such discretion for the benefit of any Participant; and
all such discretion may be exercised for the exclusive benefit of the Company.

20.  GOVERNING LAW

     The validity, construction and effect of the Plan and any actions taken or
relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the internal laws of
the State of California and applicable federal law.

21.  SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS

The Plan shall be binding on all successors and assigns of a Participant,
including, without limitation, the estate of such Participant and the executor,
administrator or trustee of such estate, or any receiver or trustee in
bankruptcy or representative of the Participant's creditors.  However, no Award
or other interest in the Plan may be assigned, pledged or otherwise alienated,
except to the extent permitted in accordance with Section 10 of the Plan and the
applicable Award agreement.

                                       6
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.14
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>RECEIVABLES FUNDING & SERVICING AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.14


          RECEIVABLES FUNDING AND SERVICING AGREEMENT, dated as of November 24,
1997 (the "Agreement") by and among CPS WAREHOUSE CORP., a Delaware corporation
           ---------                                                           
(the "Borrower"), the financial institutions listed on the signature pages of
      --------                                                               
this Agreement under the heading "Investors" and their respective successors and
                                  ---------                                     
assigns; VARIABLE FUNDING CAPITAL CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, ("VFCC")
                                                                         ----  
as lender (a "Lender"), FIRST UNION CAPITAL MARKETS CORP. ("FCMC"), as deal
                                                            ----           
agent (the "Deal Agent"); FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK ("First Union"), as the
            ----------                                -----------          
liquidity agent (the "Liquidity Agent") and as the collateral agent (the
                      ---------------                                   
"Collateral Agent") and CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC., a California
- -----------------                                                      
corporation (as such, together with its successors and assigns, the "Parent"),
                                                                     ------   
as servicer hereunder (as such, together with its successors and permitted
assigns, the "Servicer").
              --------   

                             W I T N E S S E T H:
                             - - - - - - - - - - 

          WHEREAS, the Borrower is an Affiliate of the Parent:

          WHEREAS, the Borrower has been formed for the sole purpose of
purchasing and financing certain Receivables originated or purchased by the
Parent and purchased by or contributed to the Borrower pursuant to the
Receivables Transfer Agreement, dated as of November 24, 1997 (the "Receivables
                                                                    -----------
Transfer Agreement"), by and between the Parent and the Borrower;
- ------------------                                               

          WHEREAS, the Borrower and the Lenders intend that the Lenders will
make advances to the Borrower from time to time, such advances to be secured by
certain receivables and other collateral owned by the Borrower:

          WHEREAS, the Deal Agent has been requested and is willing to act as
agent on behalf of the Lenders in connection with the making and financing of
such advances;

          WHEREAS, in order to effectuate the purposes of this Agreement, the
Lenders and the Deal Agent desire that a servicer be appointed to perform
certain servicing, administrative and collection functions in respect of the
Receivables financed by the Lenders under this Agreement;

          WHEREAS, the Parent has been requested and is willing to act as the
Servicer; and

          WHEREAS, in order to secure the advances made to the Borrower by the
Lenders, the Borrower intends to grant to the Lenders a security interest in
such Receivables and other collateral owned by the Borrower, and the Lender
intends to assign such security interest to the Collateral Agent and to grant to
the Collateral Agent a security interest in certain other collateral.

          NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I

                                  DEFINITIONS

          Section 1.01.  Certain Defined Terms.  As used herein, the following
terms shall have the following meanings:

          "Accrued Monthly Yield" means, for any day within a Settlement Period,
           ---------------------                                                
the Daily Yield and Daily Facility Fees calculated for each day from and
including the first day of the Settlement Period through and including the day
for which the calculation is being made.

                                      -1-
<PAGE>
 
          "Accrued Servicing Fee" means, for any day of determination within a
           ---------------------                                              
Settlement Period, the Servicing Fee calculated for each day from and including
the first day of such Settlement Period through and including such day of
determination.

          "Acquisition Amount" has the meaning set forth in the Liquidity
           ------------------                                            
Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 24, 1997, by and among VFCC, the
investors party thereto, FCMC, as deal agent and First Union, as liquidity
agent, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time
to time.

          "Actual Payment" means, with respect to any Contract, all payments
           --------------                                                   
received by, from or for the account of the related Obligor on such Contract.

          "Added Receivables" means all Transferred Receivables pledged
           -----------------                                           
hereunder since the later to occur of the Effective Date and date of the last
Disposition.

          "Additional Amounts" means any amounts payable to any Affected Party
           ------------------                                                 
under Sections 2.10 and 2.11.

          "Additional Costs" has the meaning specified in Section 2.10(b).
           ----------------                                               

          "Adjusted Eurodollar Rate" means on any day, an interest rate per
           ------------------------                                        
annum equal to the product of (i) the LIBOR Rate on such day and (ii) 100% minus
the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage on such day.

          "Administration Agreement" means that certain Administration
           ------------------------                                   
Agreement, dated as of September 28, 1995, between VFCC and First Union Capital
Markets Corp., as the same may be amended, supplemented, or otherwise modified
from time to time.

          "Advance" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
           -------                                            

          "Advance Rate" means, for any Receivable within a Subgroup of
           ------------                                                
Receivables and date within a Report Period, a percentage equal to the lesser of
(a) 97% and (b) 1 minus the product of (i) three (3) and (ii) the Net Loss
Factor applicable to the related Subgroup of Receivables during such Report
Period.

          "Advances Available" means, as of the date of any calculation, (a) the
           ------------------                                                   
Availability as of such date, minus (b) Advances Outstanding, but, if less than
$150,000, Advances Available shall be deemed to be zero.

          "Advances Outstanding" means, for any day, the aggregate principal
           --------------------                                             
amount of Advances outstanding on such day, after giving effect to all
repayments and issuances of Advances on such day.

          "Adverse Claim" means any claim of ownership or any lien, security
           -------------                                                    
interest, title retention, trust or other charge or encumbrance, or other type
of preferential arrangement having the effect or purpose of creating a lien or
security interest, other than the security interest created under this Agreement
or the Collateral Agent Agreement.

          "Affected Party" means any Lender, the Deal Agent, any letter of
           --------------                                                 
credit provider, enhancer, or liquidity provider of a Lender, or any affiliate
of the foregoing persons.

          "Affiliate" means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly
           ---------                                                          
or indirectly, is in control of, is controlled by, or is under common control
with, such Person.  For the purposes of this definition, the terms "control"
(including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlled by" and "under
common control with"), as used with respect to any Person, means the possession,
directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or to cause the direction of
management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting
securities or by contract or otherwise.

                                      -2-
<PAGE>
 
          "Agent's Account" means a special account (account number 22341), in
           ---------------                                                    
the name of the Deal Agent, maintained at Banker's Trust Company.

          "Aggregate Unpaids" means at any time, an amount equal to the sum of
           -----------------                                                  
the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Advances, all Daily Yield accrued
and all other amounts owed (whether due or accrued) hereunder or under the Fee
Letter to the Deal Agent, the Liquidity Agent and the Lenders at such time.

          "Agreement" means this Receivables Funding and Servicing Agreement,
           ---------                                                         
among the Borrower, the Lenders, the Servicer, the Deal Agent, the Liquidity
Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Investors.

          "Allocation Formula" has the meaning set forth in the Consent of
           ------------------                                             
General Electric Capital Corporation and Redwood Receivables Corporation, dated
as of November 24, 1997.

          "Allotment Obligors" means Obligors in respect of the Transferred
           ------------------                                              
Receivables who make payments by way of wire transfers to the Lockbox Account
from a financial institution through an electronic allotment system.

          "Alternative Rate" means an interest rate per annum equal to the
           ----------------                                               
Adjusted Eurodollar Rate or the Base Rate; provided, however, that the
                                           --------  -------          
Alternative Rate for any outstanding principal amount of any Advance allocated
to a Fixed Period shall be the Eurodollar Rate unless (a) on or before the first
day of such Fixed Period, the relevant Lender shall have notified the Deal Agent
that a Eurodollar Disruption Event has occurred, (b) such Fixed Period is a
period of less than one month or (c) such outstanding principal amount of such
Advance is less than $2,000,000.

          "Amount Financed" with respect to a Receivable means the amount
           ---------------                                               
originally advanced to the related Obligor with respect to the related Financed
Vehicle (and all other costs, accessories, fees, taxes, insurance and the like).

          "Applicable Margin" has the meaning set forth in the Fee Letter from
           -----------------                                                  
time to time.

          "APR" has the meaning given to that term pursuant to the Truth-in-
           ---                                                             
Lending Act.

          "Assignment and Acceptance" means an assignment and acceptance entered
           -------------------------                                            
into by an Investor and an Eligible Assignee, and accepted by the Deal Agent, in
substantially the form of Exhibit A to the Liquidity Purchase Agreement.

          "Assignment of Insurance Interests" means the Assignment of Insurance
           ---------------------------------                                   
Interests in the form attached as Exhibit 3 to the Receivables Transfer
Agreement.

          "Availability" means, as of any date, the lesser of (a) the product of
           ------------                                                         
the Borrowing Base as of such date and the Weighted Average Advance Rate, or (b)
the Maximum Facility Amount.

          "Balance Sheet Date" means December 31, 1996.
           ------------------                          

          "Base Rate" means on any date, a fluctuating rate of interest per
           ---------                                                       
annum equal to the higher of (a) the Prime Rate and (b) the Federal Funds Rate
plus the Applicable Margin.
- ----                       

          "Basic Documents" means this Agreement, the Notes, the Receivables
           ---------------                                                  
Transfer Agreement, the Sale Assignments, the Custodial Agreement, the Liquidity
Purchase Agreement and all agreements, instruments, certificates, financing
statements or other documents required to be delivered hereunder or thereunder.

          "Borrower" means CPS Warehouse Corp.
           --------                           

          "Borrower Account Collateral" has the meaning specified in Section
           ---------------------------                                      
8.01(c).

                                      -3-
<PAGE>
 
          "Borrower Assigned Agreements" has the meaning specified in Section
           ----------------------------                                      
8.01(b).

          "Borrower Notice" means a notice in the form of Exhibit A, setting
           ---------------                                                  
forth the information required by Section 2.03(a).

          "Borrower Secured Obligations" means all obligations of every nature
           ----------------------------                                       
of the Borrower (other than to the Parent or Servicer), now or hereafter
existing, under this Agreement, the Notes, and any promissory note or other
document or instrument delivered pursuant to such documents, and all amendments,
extensions or renewals hereof or thereof, whether for principal, interest, fees,
expenses or otherwise, whether now existing or hereafter arising, voluntary or
involuntary, whether or not jointly owned with others, direct or indirect,
absolute or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, and whether or not from time
to time decreased or extinguished and later increased, created or incurred and
all or any portion of such obligations that are paid, to the extent all or any
part of such payment is avoided or recovered directly or indirectly from the
Lenders, the Deal Agent, the Liquidity Agent or the Collateral Agent  as a
preference, fraudulent transfer or otherwise.

          "Borrower's Share" means the ratio of the Maximum Facility Amount to
           ----------------                                                   
the aggregate maximum commitments under this Agreement and all Other Funding
Agreements.

          "Borrowing Base" means, as of the date of its computation, an amount
           --------------                                                     
equal to (a) the aggregate Contract Principal Balance of Transferred Receivables
that are Eligible Receivables, plus (b) an amount equal to the aggregate
Contract Principal Balance of Eligible Receivables to be purchased or
contributed on that date.

          "Borrowing Base Certificate" means, on any Business Day, an Officer's
           --------------------------                                          
Certificate in the form of Exhibit B, computing for such Business Day the
Borrowing Base, the Availability and Advances Available.

          "Borrowing Excess" means, for any date, as disclosed in the most
           ----------------                                               
recently submitted Borrowing Base Certificate, the extent to which the then
Advances Outstanding exceeds the Availability as of such date.

          "Breakage Costs" has the meaning specified in Section 2.11.
           --------------                                            

          "Business Day" means any day of the year other than a Saturday, Sunday
           ------------                                                         
or any day on which (a) banks generally are required, or authorized, to close in
New York, New York or Charlotte, North Carolina and (b) if the term "Business
Day" is used in connection with the Adjusted Eurodollar Rate, dealings in United
States Dollar deposits are carried on in the London interbank market.

          "Certificate of Title" means, with respect to each Financed Vehicle,
           --------------------                                               
the Certificate of Title (or other evidence of ownership) issued by the
department of motor vehicles, or other appropriate governmental body, of the
state in which the Financed Vehicle is to be registered.

          "Change in Control" shall mean the time when (i) any Person or "group"
           -----------------                                                    
(other than the shareholders of such Person as of the date hereof currently
holding in excess of thirty percent (30%) of the voting power for the election
of directors of such Person under ordinary circumstances) has acquired
"beneficial ownership" (as such terms are defined under Section 13d-3 of and
Regulation 13D under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), either
directly or indirectly, of outstanding shares of Stock of the Servicer having
more than thirty percent (30%) of the voting power for the election of directors
of the Servicer under ordinary circumstances, (ii) more than fifty percent (50%)
of the Members of the Servicer's board of directors shall have been replaced by
new directors not nominated for membership on the board by a majority of
directors who were either (x) directors on the Effective Date or (y) directors
after the Effective Date and whose nomination to the board of directors of the
Servicer was itself approved by a majority of directors on the board who were
directors on the Effective Date, or (iii) (except for transfer of Receivables in
connection with any securitization) the Servicer has sold, transferred,
conveyed, assigned or otherwise disposed of all or substantially all of the
assets of the Servicer.

          "Collateral" means the collateral pledged by the Borrower in Section
           ----------                                                         
8.01.

                                      -4-
<PAGE>
 
          "Collateral Agent" means First Union or such other party designated as
           ----------------                                                     
agent for the Secured Parties.

          "Collection Account" means the account maintained with the Depositary
           ------------------                                                  
described in Section 6.01(b).

          "Collection Account Deficiency" means, for any Settlement Date, any
           -----------------------------                                     
deficiency in the amounts on deposit in the Collection Account necessary to make
the payments required under Sections 6.04(a)(i) through (iii).

          "Collections" means, with respect to any Receivable, all cash
           -----------                                                 
collections and other Proceeds of such Receivable (including late charges, fees
and interest arising thereon and all recoveries with respect to Receivables that
have been written off as uncollectible).

          "Commercial Paper" means commercial paper issued by VFCC.
           ----------------                                        

          "Commitment" means for each Investor, the commitment of such Investor
           ----------                                                          
to fund any Advance to the Borrower in an amount not to exceed the amount set
forth opposite such Investor's name on the signature pages of this Agreement, as
such amount may be modified in accordance with the terms hereof.

          "Commitment Termination Date" means the earlier of (a) the date so
           ---------------------------                                      
designated pursuant to Section 9.01 as a result of a Termination Event, and (b)
the Final Maturity Date.

          "Consolidated Net Worth Percentage" means, with respect to any Person,
           ---------------------------------                                    
a fraction (expressed as a percentage), in which the numerator equals the Net
Worth and the denominator equals the total assets of such Person and its
consolidated Subsidiaries.

          "Contract" means an installment or conditional sale contract, with any
           --------                                                             
amendments, owned or acquired by the Borrower pursuant to which an Eligible
Obligor has: (i) purchased a Motor Vehicle having a useful life longer than the
Contract term; (ii) granted a security interest in the Motor Vehicle to secure
the Obligor's payment thereunder; and (iii) agreed to pay the unpaid purchase
price and a finance charge in periodic installments no less frequently than
monthly installments.

          "Contract Date" means, with respect to a Contract, the date of
           -------------                                                
effective execution of such Contract by the parties thereto.

          "Cost of Funds" means for any day of determination the sum of (1) the
           -------------                                                       
average (weighted on the basis of the outstanding principal amount of relative
Advances bearing interest at the respective rates) of the Weighted Average CP
Rate, Weighted Average Liquidity Rate, and Weighted Average Base Rate, and (2)
the Fixed Rate Spread Percentage.

          "Contract Principal Balance" means, with respect to any Contract, an
           --------------------------                                         
amount equal to the Gross Contract Balance less the Unearned Interest Amount.

          "CP Disruption Event" means the inability of a Lender, at any time,
           -------------------                                               
whether as a result of a prohibition, a contractual restriction or any other
event or circumstance whatsoever, to raise funds through the issuance of its
commercial paper notes (whether or not constituting commercial paper notes
issued to finance fundings hereunder) in the United States commercial paper
market.

          "CP Rate" means as to a Fixed Period, a rate equivalent to the sum of
           -------                                                             
(i) the rate (or if more than one rate, the weighted average of the rates) at
which Commercial Paper having a term equal to such Fixed Period may be sold by
any placement agent or commercial paper dealer selected by VFCC, as agreed
between each such agent or dealer and VFCC and notified by VFCC to the Deal
Agent and the Servicer (which rate shall include any fee paid or payable to any
such placement agent or commercial paper dealer); provided, however, if 
                                                  --------  -------             

                                      -5-
<PAGE>
 
the rate (or rates) as agreed between any such agent or dealer and VFCC with
regard to any Fixed Period for the applicable Advance is a discount rate (or
rates), the CP Rate for such Fixed Period shall be the rate (or if more than one
rate, the weighted average of the rates) resulting from converting such discount
rate (or rates) to an interest-bearing equivalent rate per annum (which rate
shall include any fee paid or payable to any such placement agent or commercial
paper dealer) and (ii) the Applicable Margin.

          "CP Holder" means any Person holding record or beneficial ownership of
           ---------                                                            
Commercial Paper.

          "Credit and Collection Policies" means the credit, collection,
           ------------------------------                               
customer relations and service policies of the Parent in effect on the Effective
Date, as set forth in writing and delivered to the Deal Agent on or before the
Effective Date pursuant to Section 3.01(o), and, as such policies may hereafter
be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with
Section 7.05(h).

          "Custodian" means Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association or such
           ---------                                                            
other custodian as the Collateral Agent may appoint.

          "Custodial Agreement" means that certain Custodial Agreement dated as
           -------------------                                                 
of the date hereof among the Custodian, Collateral Agent, Parent, Servicer and
Borrower.

          "Daily Facility Fee" means, for any day an amount equal to the product
           ------------------                                                   
of (i) the Facility Fee Rate and (ii) an amount equal to Maximum Facility Amount
on such day divided by 360.

          "Daily Yield" means for each Advance and day in any Fixed Period, the
           -----------                                                         
product of

                                    YRT x A
                                    -------
                                      360

where:

          A    =  the outstanding principal amount of the Advance allocated to
                  such Fixed Period, and

          YRT  =  the Yield Rate for such Fixed Period, plus the Applicable
                  Margin for such Advance;

provided, however that (a) no provision of this Agreement shall require the
- --------  -------                                                          
payment or permit the collection of Daily Yield in excess of the maximum
permitted by applicable law and (b) Daily Yield shall not be considered paid by
any distribution if at any time such distribution is rescinded or must otherwise
be returned for any reason.

          "Deal Agent" means FCMC, as Deal Agent hereunder, together with its
           ----------                                                        
successors and assigns.

          "Dealer Agreement" means any dealer agreement entered into by VFCC for
           ----------------                                                     
the distribution of Commercial Paper.

          "Debt" of any Person means (without duplication) all liabilities,
           ----                                                            
obligations and indebtedness of such Person (a) for borrowed money, (b)
evidenced by promissory notes, bonds, debentures, notes or other similar
instruments, (c) to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services, (d)
as lessee under leases which have been or should be, in accordance with GAAP,
recorded as capital leases, (e) secured by any lien or other charge upon
property or asset, owned by such Person, even though such Person has not assumed
or become liable for the payment of such obligations, (f) under any interest
rate, swap, "cap", "collar" or other hedging agreement, (g) under reimbursement
agreements or similar agreements with respect to the issuance of letters of
credit (other than obligations in respect of letters of credit opened to provide
for payment of goods and services purchased in the ordinary course of business),
(h) under direct or indirect guaranties in respect of, and obligations

                                      -6-
<PAGE>
 
(contingent or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise to
assure a creditor against loss in respect of, indebtedness or obligations of
others of the kinds referred to in clauses (a) through (h) above, and (i) for
liabilities in respect of unfunded vested benefits under plans covered by ERISA.
For the purposes hereof, the term "guarantee" shall include any agreement,
whether such agreement is on a contingency or otherwise, to purchase, repurchase
or otherwise acquire Debt of any other Person, or to purchase, sell or lease, as
lessee or lessor, property or services, in any such case primarily for the
purpose of enabling another person to make payment of Debt, or to make any
payment (whether as an advance, capital contribution, purchase of an equity
interest or otherwise) to assure a minimum equity, asset base, working capital
or other balance sheet or financial condition, in connection with the Debt of
another Person, or to supply funds to or in any manner invest in another Person
in connection with Debt of such Person.

          "Debt Ratio" means a fraction (expressed as a percentage), in which
           ----------                                                        
the numerator equals the total Debt (other than Subordinated Debt) of such
Person and the denominator equals the Net Worth.

          "Default Rate" means, with respect to any Settlement Period the
           ------------                                                  
percentage equivalent of a fraction, the numerator of which is the product of
(a) 12 and (b) the Contract Principal Balance of all Transferred Receivables
that became Defaulted Receivables during such Settlement Period and the
denominator of which is the average Contract Principal Balance of all
Transferred Receivables during such Settlement Period.

          "Defaulted Receivable" means, with respect to any Settlement Period, a
           --------------------                                                 
Receivable with respect to which any of the following has occurred during such
Settlement Period: (i) the Financed Vehicle that secures such Receivable has
been repossessed and the Servicer has determined in good faith that payments
thereunder are unlikely to be resumed, or (ii) the Financed Vehicle that secures
such Receivable has been repossessed without reinstatement of such Receivable on
or before the last day of such Settlement Period and any applicable redemption
period has expired.

          "Delinquency Rate" means, with respect to any Settlement Period the
           ----------------                                                  
percentage equivalent of a fraction the numerator of which is the Contract
Principal Balance of all Transferred Receivables that are Delinquent Receivables
on the last day of such Settlement Period and the denominator of which is the
Contract Principal Balance of Transferred Receivables as of the last day of such
Settlement Period.

          "Delinquent Receivables" means, as of the end of any Settlement
           ----------------------                                        
Period, the sum of all Receivables, other than Liquidated Receivables, which
have at least two Scheduled Payments (or any part thereof) due and unpaid,
provided, that if the Obligors have paid more than 90% of the most overdue
- --------                                                                  
Scheduled Payments such scheduled Payment shall be deemed paid for purposes
hereof.

          "Depositary" means Bankers Trust Company and any other Person
           ----------                                                  
designated as the successor Depositary from time to time.

          "Disposition" means a Securitization, Whole Loan Sale transaction, or
           -----------                                                         
other disposition of Receivables subject to this Agreement, in each case by the
Parent or an Affiliate thereof.

          "Disposition Period" means a Settlement Period in which a Disposition
           ------------------                                                  
occurs.

          "Dollar" and "$" mean lawful currency of the United States of America.
           ------                                                               

          "Effective Date" means November 24, 1997.
           --------------                          

          "Eligible Assignee" has the meaning specified in the Liquidity
           -----------------                                            
Purchase Agreement.

          "Eligible Obligor" means any Obligor which is not an Excluded Obligor.
           ----------------                                                     

                                      -7-
<PAGE>
 
          "Eligible Originator" means the Parent, LINC, Samco, and such other
           -------------------                                               
Person or Persons as may from time to time be consented to in writing by the
Parent, the Borrower, the Deal Agent, and the Liquidity Agent, such consent not
to be unreasonably withheld.

          "Eligible Receivable" means each Receivable pursuant to a Contract
           -------------------                                              
delivered by the Borrower to the Custodian acting as agent for the Collateral
Agent which is listed on a List of Contracts delivered by the Borrower to the
Custodian at the same time, and which satisfies each of the following
requirements:

          (a) All of the representations and warranties in Sections 4.01, 4.02
and 4.03 are true with respect to, and all conditions precedent in Section 3.02
have been and continue to be met with respect to, the Contract, Financed
Vehicle, Obligor, Required Obligor Insurance, and Optional Obligor Insurance.

          (b) The first Scheduled Payment is due within forty-five (45) days
after the date of the Contract and the Contract Date is within five (5) days of
the delivery of the Financed Vehicle.

          (c) The Contract has a fixed APR and the Finance Charge was computed
using a fixed rate.

          (d) The initial term of the Contract does not exceed sixty (60) months
and the Schedule of Payments has equal monthly payments except for the final
payment which may be within 5% of the other equal payments, the payment
obligation is in Dollars, and at the time the Contract as delivered to the
Custodian, there were at least twenty (20) remaining Scheduled Payments.

          (e) The Contract is for the absolute sale of the Financed Vehicle to
the Obligor, and the Financed Vehicle is not on approval or subject to any
agreement between the Obligor and the Vehicle Dealer for the repurchase or
return of the Financed Vehicle.

          (f) The Contract was selected in accordance with the Allocation
Formula from new or used automobile or light truck installment sale contracts or
promissory notes in the Parent's portfolio utilizing no selection procedures
adverse to the Lenders relative to similar new or used automobile or light truck
installment sale contracts or promissory notes in Borrower's and Parent's
Portfolio taken as a whole.

          (g) The Vehicle Dealer has been paid all amounts due for the purchase
of the Contract from the Vehicle Dealer.

          (h) The Obligor is an Eligible Obligor.

          (i) The Contract contains the original signature of the Obligor and
the Vehicle Dealer.

          (j) The Contract is the only unsatisfied original executed Contract
for the purchase of the Financed Vehicle and accurately reflects all of the
actual terms and conditions of the Obligor's purchase of the Financed Vehicle.

          (k) Neither the Borrower nor an Affiliate has made any agreement with
the Obligor to reduce the amount owed on the Contract.

          (1) Neither the Borrower nor an Affiliate is required to perform any
additional service for, or perform or incur any additional obligation to, the
Obligor in order for the Borrower to enforce the Contract.

          (m) The Contract, at the time the Borrower purchased it, materially
complied with the Credit and Collection Policies; or the Deal Agent approved any
material deviation from the Credit and Collection Policies for that Contract in
writing.

                                      -8-
<PAGE>
 
          (n)  The Obligor's obligations under the Contract are secured by a
validly perfected first priority security interest in the Financed Vehicle in
favor of the Servicer as secured party and such security interest has been
validly assigned to the Lenders under this Agreement.

          (o)  The Contract has not been, nor is it designated to be,
terminated, satisfied, canceled, subordinated or rescinded in whole or in part;
nor has the Financed Vehicle been released, or designated for release, from the
security interest granted by the Contract; and all of the holder's obligations
under the Contract have been performed except those which arise subsequent to
the delivery to the Deal Agent.

          (p)  No provision of the Contract has been waived, extended, altered
or modified in any respect except in accordance with the Credit and Collection
Policies.

          (q)  The day of the month that Scheduled Payments are due has not been
changed from the original Schedule of Payments except for no more than one
change which did not change the due date in a manner such that there was more
than a thirty (30) day period for which no Scheduled Payment was due.

          (r)  No claims of rescission, setoff, counterclaim, defense or other
material disputes have been asserted with respect to the Contract or Financed
Vehicle.

          (s)  There are no unsatisfied liens or claims for taxes, labor,
materials, fines, confiscation, or replevin relating to the Contract or Financed
Vehicle.  There is no unsatisfied claim against the Obligor based on the
operation or use of the Financed Vehicle.  All taxes due for the purchase, use
and ownership of the Financed Vehicle have been paid.  All taxes due on the
transfer of the Contract to the Borrower and the Lenders have been paid.

          (t)  The Contract requires Required Obligor Insurance and the Servicer
is a loss payee or insured under the Required Obligor Insurance.

          (u)  The Company has not repossessed the Vehicle or commenced a
replevin action or other lawsuit against the Obligor or Financed Vehicle.

          (v)  The model year of the Financed Vehicle is in accordance with the
Credit and Collection Policies at the time the Contract is delivered to the
Custodian.

          (w)  The obligation of the original Obligor has not been released or
assumed by another Person unless the release or assumption was properly
documented and the Deal Agent consents in writing to it for purposes of the
Contract being an Eligible Contract.

          (x)  The Obligor Documents exist and the Obligor Delivery Documents
have been delivered to the Custodian in accordance with Section 1(b) of the
Custodial Agreement.

          (y)  As of the date of the initial Advance hereunder that is made with
respect to such Eligible Receivable, there are not more than two Scheduled
Payments (or any part thereof) due and unpaid, provided, that if the Obligors
                                               --------                      
have paid more than 90% of the most overdue Scheduled Payments such Scheduled
Payment shall be deemed paid for purposes hereof, and on each day thereafter,
there are not more than three Scheduled Payments (or any part thereof) due and
unpaid, provided, that if the Obligors have paid more than 90% of the most
        --------                                                          
overdue Scheduled Payments such Scheduled Payment shall be deemed paid for
purposes hereof.

          (z)  The cash down payment has been paid in full by the Obligor in
accordance with the Credit and Collection Policies.

          (aa) The Contract was purchased by an Eligible Originator from a
Vehicle Dealer in the ordinary course of the Vehicle Dealer's business (or, with
reference to Samco only, from a finance company in the ordinary course of the
finance company's business) within 60 days after the Contract Date.

                                      -9-
<PAGE>
 
          (bb) The first or second Scheduled Payment (or both) remain(s) unpaid
more than thirty (30) days after its/their scheduled due date(s).

          (cc) The Amount Financed does not exceed one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the net cost, or value, if applicable, shown on the Vehicle Dealer
Invoice.

          (dd) The Amount Financed on the Contract Date does not exceed $29,000
and the Vehicle has no more than 85,000 miles on its odometer on the Contract
Date.

          (ee) Not more than one hundred eighty (180) days has elapsed since the
date the Contract was pledged to the Lender hereunder.

          (ff) On or before the date which is one hundred twenty (120) days
after the Contract Date, the original Certificate of Title or equivalent title
documents issued by the relevant state motor vehicle authority, if applicable,
shall be delivered to the Custodian.

          "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
           -----                                                               
it may be amended from time to time and the regulations promulgated thereunder.

          "Event of Bankruptcy" means, with respect to any specified Person, the
           -------------------                                                  
occurrence of any of the following events:

          (a)  a case or other proceeding shall be commenced, without the
application or consent of such Person, in any court, seeking the liquidation,
reorganization, debt arrangement, dissolution, winding up, or composition or
readjustment of debts of such Person, the appointment of a trustee, receiver,
custodian, liquidator, assignee, sequestrator or the like for such Person or any
substantial part of its assets, or any similar action with respect to such
Person under any law (foreign or domestic) relating to bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization, winding up or composition or adjustment of debts, and such case
or proceeding shall continue undismissed, or unstayed and in effect, for a
period of 60 days or an order for relief in respect of such Person shall be
entered in an involuntary case under the federal bankruptcy laws or other
similar laws (foreign or domestic) now or hereafter in effect; or

          (b)  such Person shall commence a voluntary case or other proceeding
under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, debt arrangement,
dissolution or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or shall consent to
the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee,
trustee, custodian, sequestrator (or other similar official) for, such Person or
for any substantial part of its property, or shall make any general assignment
for the benefit of creditors, or shall fail to, or admit in writing its
inability to, pay its debts generally as they become due.

          "Eurocurrency Liabilities" has the meaning defined in Regulation D of
           ------------------------                                            
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to
time.

          "Eurodollar Disruption Event" means with respect to all Advances
           ---------------------------                                    
allocated to any Fixed Period, any of the following: (a) a determination by a
Lender that it would be contrary to law or to the directive of any central bank
or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) to
obtain United States Dollars in the London interbank market to make, fund or
maintain any Advance for such Fixed Period, (b) the failure of one or more of
the Reference Banks to furnish timely information for purposes of determining
the Adjusted Eurodollar Rate, (c) a determination by a Lender that the rate at
which deposits of United States Dollars are being offered to such Lender in the
London interbank market does not accurately reflect the cost to such Lender of
making, funding or maintaining any Advance for such Fixed Period or (d) the
inability of a Lender to obtain United States Dollars in the London interbank
market to make, fund or maintain any Advance for such Fixed Period.

                                      -10-
<PAGE>
 
          "Eurodollar Reserve Percentage" of any Reference Bank for any Fixed
           -----------------------------                                     
Period for any Advance means the reserve percentage applicable during such Fixed
Period (or, if more than one such percentage shall be so applicable, the daily
average of such percentages for those days in such Fixed Period during which any
such percentage shall be so applicable) under regulations issued from time to
time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor)
for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation,
any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for such
Reference Bank with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including
Eurocurrency Liabilities having a term equal to such Fixed Period.

          "Event of Servicer Termination" has the meaning specified in Section
           -----------------------------                                      
9.02.

          "Excluded Obligor" means an Obligor which is (a) an Affiliate of the
           ----------------                                                   
Parent or the Borrower, (b) a Governmental Authority or (c) which is domiciled
outside the United States.

          "Extension Date" has the meaning given to such term in Section 2.01(b)
           --------------                                                       
hereof.

          "Facility Fee" means a fee payable by the Borrower to the Lender for
           ------------                                                       
each Settlement Period equal to the product of (i) the average daily Maximum
Facility Amount during such Settlement Period, (ii) the Facility Fee Rate, and
(iii) the actual number of days in the Settlement Period divided by 360.

          "Facility Fee Rate" has the meaning set forth in the Fee Letter.
           -----------------                                              

          "Fee Letter" means the fee letter agreement dated November 24, 1997
           ----------                                                        
between the Borrower and the Deal Agent.

          "Federal Funds Rate" means for any period, a fluctuating interest rate
           ------------------                                                   
per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the
federal funds rates as quoted by First Union and confirmed in Federal Reserve
Board Statistical Release H.15 (519) or any successor or substitute publication
selected by First Union (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next
preceding Business Day), or, if, for any reason, such rate is not available on
any day, the rate determined, in the sole opinion of First Union, to be the rate
at which federal funds are being offered for sale in the national federal funds
market at 9:00 A.M. New York City time.

          "Final Maturity Date" means November 23, 1998 or, if extended, in the
           -------------------                                                 
sole discretion of VFCC and each Investor in accordance with the terms of
Section 2.01 (b), the Extension Date.

          "Finance Charge" has the meaning given to that term in the Truth-in-
           --------------                                                    
Lending Act.

          "Financed Vehicle" means the new or used Motor Vehicle purchased by an
           ----------------                                                     
Obligor pursuant to a Contract, or any substituted vehicle which is properly
documented.

          "First Union" means First Union National Bank, with its principal
           -----------                                                     
office in Charlotte, North Carolina, in its individual capacity and its
successors.

          "Fixed Period" means for any outstanding principal amount of any
           ------------                                                   
Advance, (a) if Daily Yield in respect of all or any part thereof is computed by
reference to the CP Rate, the period of 270 days or less set by the Deal Agent
pursuant to Section 2.04 hereof, (b) if Daily Yield in respect thereof is
computed by reference to the Adjusted Eurodollar Rate, a period of any number of
days up to one month, or one, two or three months and (c) if Daily Yield in
respect thereof is computed at the Base Rate, a period of 1 to and including 31
days, in each case, as determined pursuant to Section 2.04.

          "Fixed Rate Spread Percentage" means, for any Settlement Period, the
           ----------------------------                                       
positive or negative percentage equivalent of a fraction, the numerator of which
is the product of (a) the aggregate amount paid to (if positive) or received
from (if negative) any counterparty with respect to Hedging Instruments and (b)
12, and the 

                                      -11-
<PAGE>
 
denominator of which is the average aggregate outstanding principal balance of
Transferred Receivables that are Eligible Receivables for such Settlement
Period.

          "Funding Date" means each day on which an Advance is made.
           ------------                                             

          "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles as in effect in
           ----                                                                
the United States, consistently applied, as of the date of such application.

          "Governmental Authority" means the United States of America, any
           ----------------------                                         
state, local or other political submission thereof and any entity exercising
executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions thereof
or pertaining thereto.

          "Governmental Consents" has the meaning specified in Section
           ---------------------                                      
4.02(a)(xiv).

          "Gross Contract Balance" means, with respect to any Contract, an
           ----------------------                                         
amount equal to the number of remaining Scheduled Payments multiplied by the
amount of each Scheduled Payment minus any Prepayments or other payments applied
                                 -----                                          
to reduce the unpaid principal balance of such Contract.

          "Hedging Counterparty"  means an entity (i) (A) whose commercial paper
           --------------------                                                 
or short-term deposit rating is at least P-1 from Moody's and at least A-1 from
S&P and (B) who shall agree that, in the event that its commercial paper or
short-term deposit rating is reduced below A-1 by S&P or P-1 by Moody's, it
shall secure its obligations as the Lenders may reasonably request, and (ii)
which shall be rated at least Aa and A2 by S&P and Moody's, respectively and
(iii) which has entered into a Hedging Instrument.

          "Hedging Instrument" means any interest rate cap agreement, interest
           ------------------                                                 
rate floor agreement, interest rate swap agreement or other interest rate
hedging agreement entered into by the Borrower with a Hedging Counterparty and
payable no less frequently than quarterly to the Borrower, which agreement
requires the Hedging Counterparty to deposit amounts payable by the Hedging
Counterparty thereunder directly to the Collection Account.

          "Income Taxes" means any federal, state, local or foreign taxes based
           ------------                                                        
upon, measured by, or imposed upon gross or net income, gross or net receipts,
capital, net worth, or the privilege of doing business, and any minimum taxes or
withholding taxes based upon any of the foregoing, including any penalties,
interest or additions to tax imposed with respect thereto.

          "Ineligible Receivable" means a Transferred Receivable that is not an
           ---------------------                                               
Eligible receivable.

          "Indemnified Amounts" has the meaning specified in Section 12.01(a).
           -------------------                                                

          "Indemnified Party" has the meaning specified in Section 12.01(a).
           -----------------                                                

          "Interest Coverage Ratio" means (a) the sum of the Borrower's year-to-
           -----------------------                                             
date pre-tax income and the Borrower's year-to-date interest expense, divided by
(b) the Borrower's year-to-date interest expense.

          "Investments" means, with respect to any Borrower Account Collateral,
           -----------                                                         
the certificates, instruments or other Permitted Investments in which amounts in
such accounts are invested from time to time.

          "Investors" means the financial institutions from time to time party
           ---------                                                          
hereto and to the Liquidity Purchase Agreement.

          "Issuer" means VFCC and any other Lender whose principal business
           ------                                                          
consists of issuing commercial paper or other securities to fund advances or the
acquisition and maintenance of receivables, accounts, instruments, chattel
paper, general intangibles and other similar assets.

                                      -12-
<PAGE>
 
          "Lenders" means collectively, VFCC, the Investors and any other Person
           -------                                                              
that agrees, pursuant to the pertinent Assignment and Acceptance, to fund
Advances pursuant to Article II of this Agreement.

          "LIBOR Rate" means for a Fixed Period, an interest rate per annum
           ----------                                                      
equal to the sum of (i) the rate appearing on the Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00
a.m. (London time) on the Business Day which is the second Business Day
immediately preceding the first day of such Fixed Period for a term comparable
to such Fixed Period or, if no such rate appears on such day, the average
(rounded upward to the nearest one-sixteenth (1/16) of one percent) per annum
rate of interest determined by First Union at its principal office in Charlotte,
North Carolina (each such determination, absent manifest error, to be conclusive
and binding) as of two Business Days prior to the first day of the applicable
Fixed Period, to be the rate at which deposits in immediately available funds in
United States Dollars are being, have been, or would be offered or quoted by the
Reference Banks to major banks in the interbank market for Eurodollar deposits
at or about 11:00 A.M. (Charlotte, North Carolina time) on such day, for a term
comparable to such Fixed Period and in an amount approximately equal to the
requested Advance and (ii) the Applicable Margin.

          "LINC" means LINC Acceptance Company LLC, a Delaware limited-liability
           ----                                                                 
company, the chief executive office of which is set forth in Schedule 1 hereto.

          "Liquidated Receivable" means a Receivable (i) which has at least five
           ---------------------                                                
(5) Scheduled Payments (or any part thereof) due and unpaid, provided that if
the Obligors have paid more than 90% of the most overdue Scheduled Payments such
Scheduled Payment shall be deemed paid for purposes hereof, or (ii) as to which
the Servicer has determined that all recoveries in respect of such receivable
have been received, or (iii) with respect to which the related Financed Vehicle
has been repossessed and disposed of.

          "Liquidity Agent" means First Union and its successors and assigns as
           ---------------                                                     
agent for the Investors pursuant to the Liquidity Purchase Agreement.

          "Liquidity Purchase Agreement" means the Liquidity Purchase Agreement
           ----------------------------                                        
dated as of November 24, 1997, among VFCC, the Deal Agent, the Liquidity Agent
and the investors party thereto.

          "List of Contracts" means the list substantially in the form of
           -----------------                                             
Exhibit I hereto with respect to each Contract or group of Contracts.

          "Loans" means any indebtedness issued by the Borrower to an Affected
           -----                                                              
Party, including Advances.

          "Lockbox" means a lockbox or post office box established by the
           -------                                                       
Servicer under the control of the Collateral Agent.

          "Lockbox Account" means an account in the name of the Collateral Agent
           ---------------                                                      
described in Section 6.01(a).

          "Lockbox Account Bank" means each bank or financial institution listed
           --------------------                                                 
on Schedule 2 (as such schedule may be amended from time to time by written
notice from the Servicer to the Lender and the Deal Agent and its successors and
assigns in accordance with a Lockbox Agreement).

          "Lockbox Agreement" means each agreement among a Lockbox Account Bank,
           -----------------                                                    
the Servicer and the Collateral Agent executed in connection with establishment
of a Lockbox Account in form and substance satisfactory to the Deal Agent.

          "Maximum Facility Amount" means at any time, $150,000,000, as such
           -----------------------                                          
amount may be adjusted from time to time pursuant to Section 2.01(c) and Section
2.03, provided, however, that at all times, on or after the Termination Date,
      --------  -------                                                      
the "Maximum Facility Amount" shall mean the aggregate outstanding principal
amount of Advances.

                                      -13-
<PAGE>
 
          "Maximum Lawful Rate" has the meaning specified in Section 2.07(c).
           -------------------                                               

          "Monthly Report" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(a)(ii).
           --------------                                                   

          "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
           -------                                       

          "Motor Vehicle" means a passenger motor vehicle, van or light duty
           -------------                                                    
truck which is not manufactured for a particular commercial purpose.

          "Net Loss Factor" means, with respect to any Subgroup of Receivables
           ---------------                                                    
and Report Period, the average (if more than one Net Loss Rate) of the Net Loss
Rate with respect to such Subgroup of Receivables reported as of the three (3)
most recent Reset Dates (or such lesser number of Reset Dates for which such
information is available), provided, however, that the Net Loss Rate shall be
                           --------  -------                                 
deemed to be zero (0) for any Report Period for which a Net Loss Rate cannot be
calculated because no Receivables in such Subgroup had yet been transferred
under the Receivables Transfer Agreement.

          "Net Loss Rate" means, with respect to any Subgroup of Receivables and
           -------------                                                        
Settlement Period, the percentage equivalent of a fraction, determined as of the
Reset Date immediately following such Settlement Period, the numerator of which
is the product of (a) Net Losses for such Subgroup of Receivables and Settlement
Period and (b) 12, and the denominator of which is the average aggregate
Contract Principal Balance of Transferred Receivables for each day in such
Settlement Period that there were Transferred Receivables in such Subgroup,
provided, however, that the denominator for computing the Net Loss Rate for the
- --------  -------                                                              
Added Receivables Subgroup shall be the average aggregate Contract Principal
Balance of all Transferred Receivables that were Added Receivables for each day
in such Settlement Period that there were Transferred Receivables in such
Subgroup.

          "Net Losses" means, for any Settlement Period, the excess of (i) the
           ----------                                                         
unpaid principal balance of Transferred Receivables that became Liquidated
Receivables during such Settlement Period, minus (ii) the sum (a) of all
recoveries in respect of such Liquidated Receivables and (b) recoveries received
during such Settlement Period in respect of Transferred Receivables that became
Liquidated Receivables prior to such Settlement Period.

          "Net Portfolio Yield" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.01(r).
           -------------------                                               

          "Net Worth" means the total of shareholders' equity (including capital
           ---------                                                            
stock, additional paid-in capital and retained earnings) plus Subordinated Debt,
less (i) the total amount of loans to shareholders, officers or employees (other
than loans of less than $l0,000 to employees), and (ii) the total amount of any
intangible assets, including, without limitation, deferred charges and goodwill.

          "Notes" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.05(a).
           -----                                               

          "Obligations" means all amounts owed by the Borrower under this
           -----------                                                   
Agreement, including Advances, Interest, Fees, Additional Amounts and
indemnities.

          "Obligor" means, with respect to any Receivable, the Person primarily
           -------                                                             
obligated to make payments with respect thereto.

          "Obligor Delivery Documents" means:
           --------------------------        

               (a)  the fully executed original of the Contract (together with
     any agreements modifying the Contract, including without limitation any
     extension agreements);

               (b)  the original Certificate of Title in the name of the Parent
     (or, with respect to the Samco or Linc Receivables, Samco or Linc,
     respectively) or such documents that the Parent shall keep on file, in
     accordance with its customary procedures, evidencing the security interest
     of the Parent 

                                      -14-
<PAGE>
 
     (or, with respect to the Samco or Linc Receivables, Samco or Linc,
     respectively) in the Financed Vehicle or, if not yet received, a copy of
     the application therefor showing the Parent (or, with respect to the Samco
     or Linc Receivables, Samco or Linc, respectively) as secured party.

          "Obligor Documents" means, with respect to each Obligor:
           -----------------                                      

               (a)  the original Certificate of Title or equivalent title
     documents issued by the relevant state motor vehicle authority, if
     applicable, meeting the requirements for Obligor Delivery Documents;

               (b)  the original executed Contract and the executed assignment
     thereof, meeting the requirements for Obligor Delivery Documents;

               (c)  hereafter, on new Financed Vehicles a copy of the Vehicle
     Dealer Invoice and invoices for any additional equipment included in the
     Contract;

               (d)  an original or copy of the credit application of the
     Obligor;

               (e)  copies of, but with respect to portfolio purchase of
     Contracts, only if such are available to the Borrower from the seller of
     the portfolio purchase Contracts:

                    (i)   an electronic image of the credit bureau reports,

                    (ii)  an electronic image of the credit analysis,

                    (iii) the completed verification of employment and income
                          forms, and

                    (iv)  the Obligor's references;

               (f)  written verification of Required Obligor Insurance showing
     the Servicer as loss payee, additional insured, or lienholder at the time
     of the Borrower's purchase of the Contract, but with respect to portfolio
     purchases of Contracts, only if such are available to the Borrower from the
     seller of the Contracts;

               (g)  a certificate for each type of Optional Obligor Insurance
     purchased by the Obligor; and

               (h)  the Servicer's loan process or "deal structure" sheet.

          "Officer's Certificate" means, with respect to any Person, a
           ---------------------                                      
certificate of such Person signed on its behalf by the Chairman of the Board,
Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, a Vice President, the Treasurer, the
Secretary or any other duly authorized officer of such Person acceptable to the
Deal Agent.

          "Optional Obligor Insurance" means any insurance (other than Required
           --------------------------                                          
Obligor Insurance) which insures a Financed Vehicle or an Obligor's obligations
under a Contract, including but not limited to credit life, credit health,
credit disability, unemployment insurance and any service contract, mechanical
breakdown coverage, warranty or extended warranty for Financed Vehicles.

          "Optional Prepayment of Advances" means the option of the Borrower to
           -------------------------------                                     
repay an Advance pursuant to a Borrower Notice and in accordance with Article
VI.

          "Optional Repayment Amount" means the principal amount of any Optional
           -------------------------                                            
Prepayment of Advances, plus the interest accrued on such principal amount
through the prepayment date, as set forth in any Borrower Notice.

                                      -15-
<PAGE>
 
          "Other Costs" has the meaning specified in Section 14.03(a).
           -----------                                                

          "Other Funding Agreements" means other agreements for the purchase or
           ------------------------                                            
funding of receivables entered into from time to time by VFCC in which it is
contemplated that such purchases or fundings will be financed in the same manner
as contemplated hereunder.

          "Parent" means Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
           ------                                         

          "Permitted Investments" means one or more of the following:
           ---------------------                                     

               (a)  marketable obligations of the United States, the full and
     timely payment of which are backed by the full faith and credit of the
     United States which have a maturity of not more than 270 days from the date
     of acquisition;

               (b)  marketable obligations, the full and timely payment of which
     are directly and fully guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the
     United States and which have a maturity of not more than 270 days from the
     date of acquisition;

               (c)  bankers' acceptances and certificates of deposit and other
     interest-bearing obligations (in each case having a maturity of not more
     than 270 days from the date of acquisition) denominated in Dollars and
     issued by any bank with capital, surplus and undivided profits aggregating
     at least $100,000,000, the short-term securities of which are rated at
     least A-1 by S&P and P-1 by Moody's;

               (d)  repurchase obligations with a term of not more than ten days
     for underlying securities of the types described in clauses (a), (b) and
                                                         ------- ---  --- 
     (c) above entered into with any bank of the type described in clause (c)
     ---                                                           ------ ---
     above;

               (e)  commercial paper rated at least A-1 by S&P and P-1 by
     Moody's; and

               (f)  demand deposits, time deposits or certificates of deposits
     (having original maturities of no more than 365 days) of depository
     institutions or trust companies incorporated under the laws of the United
     States or any state thereof (or domestic branches of any foreign bank) and
     subject to supervision and examination by federal or state banking or
     depository institution authorities; provided that at the same time such
                                         --------
     investment, or the commitment to make such investment, is entered into, the
     short-term debt rating of such depository institution or trust company
     shall be at least A-1 by S&P and P-1 by Moody's.

          "Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a
           ------                                                            
business trust), joint stock company, trust, association, joint venture,
Governmental Authority or any other entity of whatever nature.

          "Portfolio Requirements" means, with respect to the Eligible
           ----------------------                                     
Receivables at any date of determination specified below, each of the following
requirements:

               (i)  the Contract Principal Balance as of the end of the prior
     Settlement Period of all Eligible Receivables secured by Financed Vehicles
     that were new at the time of the sale generating such Eligible Receivable
     shall not exceed 40% of the aggregate Contract Principal Balance of
     Eligible Receivables as of the end of such Settlement Period;

               (ii) the aggregate Contract Principal Balance as of the end of
     the prior Settlement Period of all Eligible Receivables (a) purchased from
     non-manufacturer franchised Vehicle Dealers shall not exceed an amount
     equal to 10% of the aggregate Contract Principal Balance of Eligible
     Receivables as of the end of such Settlement Period and (b) purchased from
     any single Vehicle Dealer shall not 

                                      -16-
<PAGE>
 
     exceed an amount equal to 5% of the aggregate Contract Principal Balance of
     Eligible Receivables as of the end of such Settlement Period;

               (iii) the aggregate Contract Principal Balance as of the end of
     the prior Settlement Period of all Eligible Receivables (a) originated
     under the Delta Program (as defined in the Credit and Collection Policies)
     shall not exceed 25% of the aggregate Contract Principal Balance of
     Eligible Receivables at the end of the Settlement Period, and (b)
     originated under the First Time Buyer Program (as defined in the Credit and
     Collection Policies) shall not exceed 20% of the aggregate Contract
     Principal Balance of Eligible Receivables at the end of such Settlement
     Period; and

               (iv)  the aggregate Contract Principal Balance as of the end of
     the prior Settlement Period of all Eligible Receivables (a) originated in
     California shall not exceed 30% of the aggregate Contract Principal Balance
     of Eligible Receivables as of the end of such Settlement Period; and (b)
     originated in any other state shall not exceed 15% of the aggregate
     Contract Principal Balance of Eligible Receivables at the end of such
     Settlement Period.

          "Potential Termination Event" means an event which, upon the giving of
           ---------------------------                                          
notice or the passage of time, or both, would become a Termination Event.

          "Prepayment" means, with respect to a Contract on any day of
           ----------                                                 
determination, the amount, if any, by which the Actual Payment exceeds the
Scheduled Payment due for the period during which such Actual Payment is
received.

          "Prime Rate" means the rate announced by First Union from time to time
           ----------                                                           
as its prime rate in the United States, such rate to change as and when such
designated rate changes.  The Prime Rate is not intended to be the lowest rate
of interest charged by First Union in connection with extensions of credit to
debtors.

          "Proceeds" means, with respect to any Collateral, whatever is
           --------                                                    
receivable or received when such Collateral is sold, collected, exchanged or
otherwise disposed of, whether such disposition is voluntary or involuntary, and
includes all rights to payment, including returned premiums, with respect to any
insurance relating to such Collateral.

          "Program Documents" means any letter of credit agreement, liquidity
           -----------------                                                 
agreement, collateral agreement, depositary agreement, commercial paper, dealer
agreement or any similar agreement relating to the funding of an Advance by a
Lender.

          "Rating Agency" means each of Moody's and S&P.
           -------------                                

          "Receivable" means:
           ----------        

               (a)  indebtedness of an Obligor (whether constituting an account,
     chattel paper, instrument or general intangible) arising in connection with
     a Contract, including the right to payment of any interest or finance
     charges and other obligations of such Obligor with respect thereto;

               (b)  all security interests or liens and property subject thereto
     from time to time securing or purporting to secure payment by the Obligor;

               (c)  all guarantees, indemnities and warranties and proceeds
     thereof, proceeds of insurance policies, financing statements and other
     agreements or arrangements of whatever character from time to time
     supporting or securing payment of such Receivable;

               (d)  all Collections with respect to any of the foregoing;

               (e)  all Records and Obligor Documents with respect to any of the
     foregoing; and

                                      -17-
<PAGE>
 
               (f)  all Proceeds of any of the foregoing.

          "Receivable Yield" means, for any Contract, the internal rate of
           ----------------                                               
return for such Contract after taking into account the Unearned Discount Amount
in respect thereof.

          "Receivables Transfer Agreement" means the Receivables Transfer
           ------------------------------                                
Agreement, dated November 24, 1997, between the Parent and the Borrower,
providing for the purchase by, or the contribution to, the Borrower from the
Parent of Receivables from time to time,

          "Records" means all Contracts and other documents, books, records and
           -------                                                             
other information (including, without limitation, computer programs, tapes,
disks, data processing software and related property and rights) prepared and
maintained by the Parent, the Servicer or the Borrower with respect to
Receivables and the related Obligors.

          "Reference Banks" means three major banks in the London interbank
           ---------------                                                 
market selected by the Deal Agent.

          "Register" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01A.
           --------                                              

          "Regulatory Change" shall mean any change after the Effective Date in
           -----------------                                                   
federal, state or foreign law or regulations (including, without limitation,
Regulation D of the Federal Reserve Board) or the adoption or making after such
date of any interpretation, directive or request applying to any Affected Party
of or under any federal, state or foreign law or regulations (whether or not
having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority charged with the
interpretation or administration thereof.

          "Rejected Amount" means, with respect to the Borrower, the amount of
           ---------------                                                    
the capital contribution which the Parent is required to make to the Borrower
(as determined by the Deal Agent) as a result of breaches of representations and
warranties with respect to Receivables sold or contributed to the Borrower by
the Parent pursuant to Section 4.04(iii) of the Receivables Transfer Agreement.

          "Remaining Receivables" means, with respect to any Settlement Period,
           ---------------------                                               
all Transferred Receivables remaining immediately after any Disposition
occurring in such Settlement Period, or if none, the preceding Disposition,
provided that, there shall be no Remaining Receivables until a Disposition
- -------------                                                             
occurs after the date hereof.

          "Report Date" means, with respect to any Report Period, the first
           -----------                                                     
Business Day of such Report Period.

          "Report Period" means with respect to any Settlement Period, the
           -------------                                                  
period from and including the fifth (5th) Business Day in such Settlement
Period, to but excluding the fifth (5th) Business Day of the next succeeding
Settlement Period.

          "Request Notice" has the meaning set out in the Receivables Transfer
           --------------                                                     
Agreement.

          "Required Information" means, with respect to a Receivable, (a) the
           --------------------                                              
Obligor, (b) the Obligor's address, (c) the Amount Financed, (d) the Gross
Contract Balance, (e) the Contract Principal Balance, (f) any discounts, and (g)
whether or not such Receivable is an Eligible Receivable.

          "Required Investors" means at a particular time, Investors with
           ------------------                                            
Commitments in excess of 50% of the Facility Limit.

          "Required Obligor Insurance" means the casualty insurance that the
           --------------------------                                       
Obligor is required to obtain pursuant to the terms of the Contract.

                                      -18-
<PAGE>
 
          "Required Reserve Account Amount" means, with respect to any
           -------------------------------                            
Settlement Date following the date on which a financial covenant set forth in
Section 7.06 is not met, 0.10% of the average daily Maximum Facility Amount
during the immediately preceding Settlement Period or such lesser amount as the
Deal Agent may agree to in writing.

          "Reserve Account Deposit Amount" means with respect to any Settlement
           ------------------------------                                      
Date, the excess as of such Settlement Date (prior to giving effect to
distributions or deposits to the Successor Servicer Reserve Account on such
Settlement Date) of (i) the Required Reserve Account Amount over (ii) the
balance of funds on deposit in the Successor Servicer Reserve Account.

          "Reset Date" means, with respect to any Report Period, first Business
           ----------                                                          
Day of such Report Period, provided, however, that the first Reset Date under
                           --------  -------                                 
this Agreement shall be the Reset Date occurring in January 1997.

          "Restrictions on Transferability" means any material condition to, or
           -------------------------------                                     
restriction on, the ability of the holder or an assignee of the holder of any
right, title or interest to sell, assign, transfer or otherwise liquidate such
right, title or interest in a commercially reasonable time and manner or which
would otherwise materially deprive the holder or any assignee of the holder of
the benefits thereof.

          "Revolving Period" means the period commencing on the Effective Date
           ----------------                                                   
of this Agreement and ending on the day immediately prior to the Commitment
Termination Date.

          "Samco" means Samco Acceptance Corp., a Delaware corporation, the
           -----                                                           
chief executive office of which is set forth in Schedule 1 hereto.

          "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, a division of McGraw-
           ---                                                             
Hill, Inc.

          "Sale Assignment" means the assignment entered into between the Parent
           ---------------                                                      
and the Borrower on any Transfer Date substantially in the form of Exhibit 1 to
the Receivables Transfer Agreement.

          "Sale Date" has the meaning given to that term in the Receivables
           ---------                                                       
Transfer Agreement.

          "Sale Price" has the meaning given to that term in the Receivables
           ----------                                                       
Transfer Agreement.

          "Schedule of Payments" means, for any Contract, the schedule of
           --------------------                                          
payments disclosed in such Contract.

          "Scheduled Payment" means, for any Contract, the periodic installment
           -----------------                                                   
payment amount disclosed in the Schedule of Payments for such Contract.

          "Secured Parties" means, collectively, the Lenders.
           ---------------                                   

          "Securitization" means a disposition of Receivables in one or a series
           --------------                                                       
of structured-finance securitization transactions.

          "Servicer" means the Parent, or any Person designated as Successor
           --------                                                         
Servicer, and its successors and assigns from time to time hereunder.

          "Servicer Termination Notice" means a notice by the Deal Agent to the
           ---------------------------                                         
Servicer that an Event of Servicer Termination has occurred and that the
Servicer's appointment hereunder has been terminated.

          "Servicing Fee" means the monthly Servicing Fee set forth in the Fee
           -------------                                                      
Letter.

                                      -19-
<PAGE>
 
          "Servicing Records" means all documents, books, records and other
           -----------------                                               
information (including, without limitation, computer programs, tapes, disks,
data processing software and related property and rights) prepared and
maintained by the Servicer with respect to the Transferred Receivables and the
related Obligors.

          "Settlement Date" means, with respect to a Settlement Period, the
           ---------------                                                 
seventh (7th) Business Day of the next succeeding Settlement Period, provided,
                                                                     -------- 
however, that the first Settlement Date under this Agreement shall be the
- -------                                                                  
Settlement Date occurring in January 1997.

          "Settlement Period" means in the case of the initial Settlement
           -----------------                                             
Period, the period beginning with the Effective Date to and including the last
day of the calendar month in which such Effective Date occurs; with respect to
the final Settlement Period, the period ending on the Final Maturity Date and
beginning with the first day of the calendar month in which the Final Maturity
Date occurs; and with respect to all other Settlement Periods, each calendar
month.

          "Subgroup" means, with respect to any Settlement Period, the Remaining
           --------                                                             
Receivables or the Added Receivables, as the case may be.

          "Subordinated Debt" means any Debt which is subordinated in right of
           -----------------                                                  
payment to the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

          "Sub-Servicer" means any Person with whom the Servicer enters into a
           ------------                                                       
Sub-Servicing Agreement.

          "Sub-Servicing Agreement" means any written contract between the
           -----------------------                                        
Servicer and any Sub-Servicer, relating to servicing, administration or
collection of Transferred Receivables as provided in Section 7.01, in such form
as has been approved in writing by the Servicer and the Deal Agent.

          "Subsidiary" means, as to any Person, any corporation or other entity
           ----------                                                          
of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to
elect a majority of the Board of Directors or other Persons performing similar
functions are at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such
Person.

          "Successor Servicer" has the meaning specified in Section 11.02.
           ------------------                                             

          "Successor Servicer Reserve Account" has the meaning specified in
           ----------------------------------                              
Section 6.01(c).

          "Successor Servicing Fees and Expenses" means the fees and expenses
           -------------------------------------                             
payable by the Borrower to Successor Servicer, as agreed to by the Borrower, the
Lenders, the Deal Agent and the Liquidity Agent.

          "Taxes" has the meaning specified in Section 2.12.
           -----                                            

          "Telerate" means, when used in connection with any designated page and
           --------                                                             
rate, the display page so designated on the Dow Jones Telerate Service (or such
other page as may replace that page on that service, or such other service as
may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates
comparable to such designated rate).

          "Termination Event" has the meaning specified in Section 9.01.
           -----------------                                            

          "Transfer Date" means each date on which a Transferred Receivable is
           -------------                                                      
sold or contributed to the Borrower by the Parent under the Receivables Transfer
Agreement.

          "Transferred Receivable" means any Receivable which has been purchased
           ----------------------                                               
by the Borrower or contributed as capital by the Parent to the Borrower, under
the Receivables Transfer Agreement and not subsequently disposed of in a
Disposition.

                                      -20-
<PAGE>
 
          "Truth-in-Lending Act" means the federal Act cited as 15 U.S.C.
           --------------------                                          
(S)1601 et seq., as amended.

          "Transfer Request" has the meaning specified in Section 8.07(a).
           ----------------                                               

          "UCC" means, for any jurisdiction, the Uniform Commercial Code as from
           ---                                                                  
time to time in effect in such jurisdiction.

          "Unearned Discount Amount" means, with respect to any Contract, the
           ------------------------                                          
product of (i) the original dollar discount at which the Contract was purchased
from the Vehicle Dealer or other cash fees paid by the Vehicle Dealer and (ii)
the ratio of which the numerator is the Contract Principal Balance and the
denominator is the original Amount Financed with respect to such Contract.

          "Unearned Interest Amount" means, with respect to any Contract, that
           ------------------------                                           
portion of the total finance charge to be paid with respect to such Contract
which the Obligor would not be required to pay in the event of a total
prepayment, for which the exact computation to be made is based on the Rule of
78s, or such other method as provided for in such Contract.

          "Vehicle Dealer" means the seller of the Financed Vehicle to the
           --------------                                                 
Obligor.

          "Vehicle Dealer Invoice" means (i) as to new Financed Vehicles, the
           ----------------------                                            
invoice prepared by the manufacturer and (ii) as to used Financed Vehicles, the
KELLEY WHOLESALE BLUE BOOK value or NADA USED CAR GUIDE TRADER wholesale value,
as typically used in the applicable market.

          "Weighted Average Advance Rate" means, as of any date of
           -----------------------------                          
determination, the weighted average (weighted on the basis of relative aggregate
Contract Principal Balances) of the most recent Advance Rates for each Subgroup.

          "Weighted Average Base Rate" means for any date of determination the
           --------------------------                                         
average of Base Rates as of such dates for all Advances to which Base Rates
apply, weighted by the outstanding principal balance of Advances to which each
such Base Rate applies.

          "Weighted Average CP Rate" means for any date of determination the
           ------------------------                                         
average of CP Rates as of such dates for all tranches of outstanding Commercial
Paper, weighted by the outstanding Commercial Paper in each tranche.

          "Weighted Average Liquidity Rate" means for any date of determination
           -------------------------------                                     
the average of the Adjusted Eurodollar Rates as of such dates for all Advances
to which Adjusted Eurodollar Rates apply, weighted by the outstanding principal
balance of Advances to which each such Adjusted Eurodollar Rate applies.

          "Whole Loan Sale" means a disposition of Receivables pursuant to a
           ---------------                                                  
whole-loan sale.

          "Yield Rate"  For any Fixed Period for all principal amounts of
           ----------                                                    
Advances allocated to such Fixed Period:

               (a)  to the extent the relevant Lender will be funding the
     applicable Advance on the first day of such Fixed Period through the
     issuance of commercial paper, a rate equal to the CP Rate for such Fixed
     Period, and

               (b)  to the extent the relevant Lender will not be funding the
     applicable Advance on the first day of such Fixed period through the
     issuance of commercial paper, a rate equal to the Alternative Rate for such
     Fixed Period or such other rate as the Deal Agent and the Borrower shall
     agree to in writing.

                                      -21-
<PAGE>
 
          Section 1.02.  Other Terms.  All accounting terms not specially
                         -----------                                       
defined herein shall be construed in accordance with GAAP.  All terms used in
Article 9 of the UCC of the State of New York, and not specifically defined
herein, are used herein as defined in such Article 9.  All hourly references
herein shall refer to New York City time.

          Section 1.03.  Interpretation.  Except as otherwise indicated, all
                         --------------                                       
agreements defined in this Agreement refer to the same as from time to time
amended or supplemented or as the terms of such agreements are waived or
modified in accordance with their terms.

                                  ARTICLE II

                                   ADVANCES

          Section 2.01.  Advances.
                         --------   

               (a)  On the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, the
     Borrower may for any Funding Date, at its option, request that the Lenders
     make advances (each, an "Advance") to the Borrower in an amount not to
                              -------                                      
     exceed the Availability less Advances Outstanding.  VFCC may, in its sole
     discretion, fund, or if VFCC shall decline to fund, the Liquidity Agent
     shall fund on behalf of the Investors, Advances from time to time during
     the Revolving Period.  Under no circumstances shall any Lender make any
     Advance if, after giving effect to such Advance, the aggregate principal
     amount of Advances outstanding hereunder would exceed the Availability
     (calculated after giving effect to any purchase of additional Eligible
     Receivables with the proceeds of such Advance).  In addition, no Advance
     shall be made if an event described in Section 9.01(c) has occurred and is
     continuing on such day with respect to either of the Borrower or the
     Parent.

               (b)  The Borrower may, within 60 days, but no later than 45 days,
     prior to the then Final Maturity Date, by written notice to the Deal Agent,
     make written request for VFCC and the Investors to extend the Commitment
     Termination Date for an additional period of 364 days.  The Deal Agent will
     give prompt notice to VFCC and each of the Investors of its receipt of such
     request for extension of the Final Maturity Date.  VFCC and each Investor
     shall make a determination, in their sole discretion and after a full
     credit review, not less than 15 days prior to the then applicable Final
     Maturity Date as to whether or not they will agree to extend the Final
     Maturity Date; provided, however, that the failure of VFCC or any Investor
                    --------  -------                                          
     to make a timely response to the Borrower's request for extension of the
     Final Maturity Date shall be deemed to constitute a refusal by VFCC or the
     Investor, as the case may be, to extend the Final Maturity Date.  The Final
     Maturity Date shall only be extended upon the consent of both (i) VFCC and
     (ii) 100% of the Investors and upon payment to the Deal Agent of the
     facility renewal fee specified in the Fee Letter.  Any date to which the
     Commitment Termination Date is extended is referred to herein as the
     "Extension Date."
      --------------  

               (c)  At any time after the Effective Date, the Borrower may, by
     written notice to the Deal Agent as agent for the Lenders delivered at
     least ten Business Days prior to a Funding Date, request an increase in the
     Maximum Facility Amount; provided that (i) any such increase must be in a
                              --------                                        
     minimum amount of $25,000,000 and in integral multiples of $1,000,000 in
     excess thereof and (ii) no Termination Event or Potential Termination Event
     has occurred and is continuing.  VFCC and each Investor, in their sole
     discretion and after full credit review and subject to receipt from S&P and
     Moody's that such proposed increase will not cause the rating maintained by
     such Rating Agency with respect to any Lender's short-term Commercial Paper
     notes to be reduced, may approve such request for an increase in the
     Maximum Facility Amount, which increase shall become effective only upon
     receipt by the Borrower of written consent of both (i) VFCC and (ii) 100%
     of the Investors to such increase.

          Section 2.02.  Procedures for Advances.  Subject to the conditions
                         -----------------------                              
described in Section 2.01, each Advance shall be made in accordance with the
procedures described in Section 2.02(b).

                                      -22-
<PAGE>
 
          (a)   (i) On each day of requested Advance, the Borrower shall file by
5:00 p.m. Eastern time on the day before such Advance, a Borrowing Base
Certificate and copies of any Request Notices delivered under the Receivables
Transfer Agreement with the Deal Agent.  Availability will be calculated based
on the most recent Borrowing Base Certificate delivered to the Deal Agent.  The
Borrower may request additional Advances up to the Advances Available, if any.
If there is a Borrowing Excess, the Borrower must repay, in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Sections 6.02(a)(iii) and 6.04(a)(iii)(E), Advances
Outstanding to the level of the new Availability.

          (ii)  The Borrower shall give the Deal Agent written notice of each
borrowing, repayment of each Advance, or termination or reduction of the Maximum
Facility Amount and Optional Prepayments of Advances (in each case, a "Borrower
                                                                       --------
Notice"). Each such Borrower Notice shall specify the amount (subject to Section
- ------                                                                          
2.01 hereof) of Advances to be borrowed or repaid and the Funding Date or
repayment date (which shall be a Business Day).

          (iii) Each Borrower Notice requesting an Advance shall include a
representation by the Borrower that the Advance requested shall not on the
Funding Date exceed the Advances Available, based upon the most recent Borrowing
Base Certificate.

          (b)   Each Advance shall be made on at least one Business Day's notice
from the Borrower by 5:00 p.m. Eastern time to the Deal Agent or, if the Daily
Yield to accrue with respect to such Advance is computed by reference to the
Adjusted Eurodollar Rate, on at least three Business Days' notice from the
Borrower to the Deal Agent. Each Borrower Notice shall specify (i) the aggregate
amount of such Advance, which shall be in an amount equal to $2,000,000 or
integral multiples of $100,000 in excess thereof, and (ii) the Funding Date.
Following receipt of such Borrower Notice, the Deal Agent will determine whether
VFCC will make the Advance. If VFCC declines to make a proposed Advance, the
Advance shall be made by the Investors; the Deal Agent shall promptly notify the
Liquidity Agent and the Investors in writing of any declination by VFCC to make
an Advance. On the date of such Advance, VFCC or the Liquidity Agent upon
receipt of funds from the Investors shall, upon satisfaction of the applicable
conditions set forth in Article III, make available an amount equal to the
principal amount of such Advance to the Borrower; provided, however, that such
                                                  --------  -------
amount shall not exceed the Availability or their respective Commitments.

          With respect to any Advance to be made by the Investors hereunder,
each Investor shall promptly pay to the Liquidity Agent at an account designated
by the Liquidity Agent, for the benefit of the Borrower, its Acquisition Amount.
The Liquidity Agent shall promptly deposit the aggregate Acquisition Amounts
received in the Agent's Account; provided, however, that the Borrower and each
                                 --------  -------                            
Investor agree that the Liquidity Agent shall not be required to deposit any
amount in respect of the Acquisition Amounts in excess of the aggregate of the
Acquisition Amounts actually received by the Liquidity Agent.  All payments in
respect of the principal amount of any Advance shall be made by each of the
Investors to the Liquidity Agent and by the Liquidity Agent to the Deal Agent on
the Business Day such Investor and the Liquidity Agent receive a notice from the
Deal Agent for the funding of an Advance; provided, however, if any such notice
                                          --------                             
is delivered to the Liquidity Agent or an Investor after 4:00 p.m. (New York
City time) on a Business Day, payments in respect of the related Advance shall
be made by 9:30 a.m. (New York City time) on the next Business Day.

          Section 2.03.  Reduction of the Facility Limit; Repayment.
                         ------------------------------------------   

               (a)  The Borrower may, upon at least five Business Days' notice
     to the Deal Agent, terminate in whole or reduce in part the portion of the
     Maximum Facility Amount that exceeds the sum of the aggregate principal
     amount of Advances Outstanding, and the Commitments of the Investors shall
     be reduced proportionately; provided, however, that each partial reduction
                                 --------  -------                             
     of the Maximum Facility Amount shall be in an aggregate amount equal to
     $1,000,000 or an integral multiple thereof.  Each notice of reduction or
     termination pursuant to this Section 2.03(a) shall be irrevocable.

                                      -23-
<PAGE>
 
               (b)  The Borrower may, at any time prior to the occurrence of the
     Commitment Termination Date, repay all or a portion of any Advances
     Outstanding at a price sufficient to repay in full (i) the amount of the
     outstanding principal amount to be repaid in respect of such Advances, (ii)
     all Daily Yield accrued thereon and (iii) any and all Breakage Costs
     payable under Section 2.11.  In addition, on such repayment date, as a
     condition to such repayment, all fees, expenses and other amounts payable
     to any Lender or other Person under this Agreement or any other Basic
     Document through the latest ending Fixed Period shall be paid in full in
     cash.

          Section 2.04.  Selection of Fixed Periods.
                         --------------------------   

          Each Advance shall at all times have an associated amount of
principal, a Yield Rate and a Fixed Period applicable to it.  The Deal Agent
shall, in consultation with the Borrower, select (a) each Fixed Period and (b)
Yield Rates to apply to such Advance for such Fixed Periods and shall allocate a
portion of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Advance to each
selected Fixed Period, so that all of the outstanding principal amount of the
Advance is at all times allocated to one or more Fixed Periods, provided that,
                                                                ------------- 
on or after the Commitment Termination Date, the Deal Agent shall, in its sole
discretion, select each such Fixed Period and such Yield Rates to apply to such
Advance for such Fixed Periods.  Each Fixed Period (other than the initial Fixed
Period for an Advance) shall commence on the last day of the immediately
preceding Fixed Period.  Any Fixed Period that would otherwise end on a day that
is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day;
provided, however, that if Daily Yield in respect of such Fixed Period is
- --------  -------                                                        
computed by reference to the Adjusted Eurodollar Rate, and such next succeeding
Business Day is in the next calendar month, then such Fixed Period shall end on
the next preceding Business Day.  In addition, whenever any Fixed Period as to
which Daily Yield accrues at the Adjusted Eurodollar Rate commences on the last
Business Day in a month or on a day for which there is no numerically
corresponding day in the month in which such Fixed Period ends, the last day of
such Fixed Period shall occur on the last Business Day of the month in which
such Fixed Period ends.  Furthermore, if a CP Disruption Event shall have
occurred and be continuing, the relevant Lender, or the Deal Agent on its
behalf, may, upon notice to the Borrower, terminate any Fixed Period then in
effect if such Lender has funded the principal amount of the Advance allocated
to such Fixed Period by issuing its commercial paper notes.  Any Fixed Period
that commences before the Commitment Termination Date and that would otherwise
end on a date occurring after the Termination Date shall end on the Commitment
Termination Date.

          Section 2.05.  Notes.
                         -----   

               (a)  The Advances made by each Lender hereunder shall be
     evidenced by a duly executed promissory note of the Borrower to each
     applicable Lender in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto (each, a
                                                    ---------
     "Note"). Each Note shall be dated the initial Funding Date, shall be
      ----
     payable to the applicable Lender in a principal amount equal to the Maximum
     Facility Amount as originally in effect, and shall otherwise be duly
     completed. The Advances evidenced by the Notes shall be payable as provided
     in Article VI hereof.

               (b)  The Deal Agent as agent for the Lenders shall enter on a
     schedule attached to each Note a notation (which may be computer generated)
     with respect to each Advance made hereunder of:  (i) the date and principal
     amount thereof and (ii) each payment and repayment of principal thereof.
     The failure of the Deal Agent to make any such notation on the schedule to
     any such Note shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the
     Borrower to repay the Advances in accordance with their respective terms as
     set forth herein.

          Section 2.06.  Principal Repayments.    The Advances (a) shall be
                         --------------------                              
repaid as and when necessary, as set forth in Sections 2.03(b) 6.03, 6.04 and
6.05, to cause the aggregate principal amount of the Advances Outstanding not to
exceed the Availability, and (b) may be repaid at any time and from time to
time, in whole or in part, upon prior written notice to the Deal Agent as
provided in Section 2.03(b) hereof and any amount so repaid may, subject to the
terms and conditions hereof, be reborrowed hereunder during the Revolving
Period; provided, however, that all repayments of Advances or any portion
thereof shall be made together with 

                                      -24-
<PAGE>
 
payment of (i) all interest accrued on the amount repaid to (but excluding) the
date of such repayment and (ii) except in the case of an Optional Prepayment of
Advances pursuant to Section 2.10(d), any and all Breakage Costs payable
pursuant to Section 2.11.

          Section 2.07.  Interest.
                         -------- 

          (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Lender, as set forth in Sections
6.04 and 6.05, Daily Yield on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance for
the period commencing on and including the Funding Date of such Advance until
but excluding the date such Advance shall be paid in full.

          (b)  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall pay interest on
unpaid Daily Yield, on any Advance or any installment thereof, and on any other
amount payable by the Borrower hereunder (to the extent permitted by law) that
shall not be paid in full when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration
or otherwise) for the period commencing on the due date thereof to (but
excluding) the date the same is paid in full at the applicable Daily Yield.

          (c)  Anything in the Basic Documents to the contrary notwithstanding,
if at any time the rate of interest payable by any Person under the Basic
Documents exceeds the highest rate of interest permissible under any applicable
law (the "Maximum Lawful Rate"), then, so long as the Maximum Lawful Rate would
          -------------------                                                  
be exceeded, the rate of interest under such Basic Document shall be equal to
the Maximum Lawful Rate.  If at any time thereafter the rate of interest payable
under such Basic Document is less than the Maximum Lawful Rate, such Person
shall continue to pay interest under such Basic Document at the Maximum Lawful
Rate until such time as the total Daily Yield received from such Person is equal
to the total interest that would have been received had the applicable law not
limited the interest rate payable under such Basic Document.  In no event shall
the total interest received by any Lender and the Collateral Agent under the
Basic Documents exceed the amount which the Lender and the Collateral Agent
could lawfully have received, had the interest due under such Basic Documents
been calculated since the Effective Date at the Maximum Lawful Rate.

          Section 2.08.  Fees.  (a)  On each Settlement Date, the Borrower
                         ----                                               
shall pay to the Servicer, the Servicing Fee, or to the Successor Servicer, the
Successor Servicing Fees and Expenses.

          (b)  On each Settlement Date, the Borrower shall pay to the Lender the
Facility Fee.

          Section 2.09.  Time and Method of Payments. Subject to the provisions
                         ---------------------------                   
of Sections 6.03, 6.04 and 6.05, all payments of principal, Daily Yield, fees
and other amounts (including indemnities) payable by the Borrower hereunder
shall be made in Dollars, in immediately available funds, to the Deal Agent not
later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date on which such payment
shall become due. Any such payment made on such date but after such time shall,
if the amount paid bears interest, be deemed to have been made on, and interest
shall continue to accrue and be payable thereon until, the next succeeding
Business Day. If any payment of principal or Daily Yield becomes due on a day
other than a Business Day, such payment may be made on the next succeeding
Business Day and such extension shall be included in computing interest in
connection with such payment. All payments hereunder and under the Notes shall
be made without setoff or counterclaim and in such amounts as may be necessary
in order that all such payments shall not be less than the amounts otherwise
specified to be paid under this Agreement and the Notes. Upon payment in full of
the applicable Note, following the Commitment Termination Date, the Deal Agent
as agent for the applicable Lender shall mark each Note "Paid" and return them
to the Borrower.

          Section 2.10.  Additional Costs; Capital Requirements.  (a)  In the
                         --------------------------------------                
event that any existing or future law, regulation or guideline, or
interpretation thereof, by any court or administrative or governmental authority
charged with the administration thereof, or compliance by any Affected Party
with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any
such authority shall impose, modify or deem applicable or result in the
application of, any capital maintenance, capital ratio or similar requirement
against Loan commitments made by any Affected Party under this Agreement or a
Program Document, and the result of any event referred to above is to impose
upon any Affected Party or increase any capital requirement applicable as a

                                      -25-
<PAGE>
 
result of the making or maintenance of, such Affected Party's loan commitment
(which imposition of capital requirements may be determined by each Affected
Party's reasonable allocation of the aggregate of such capital increases or
impositions), then, upon demand made by the Deal Agent on behalf of such
Affected Party as promptly as practicable after it obtains knowledge that such
law, regulation, guideline, interpretation, request or directive exists and
determines to make such demand, the Borrower shall immediately pay to the
Collateral Agent on behalf of such Affected Party from time to time as specified
by the Deal Agent additional amounts which shall be sufficient to compensate
such Affected Party for the Borrower's Share of such imposition of or increase
in capital requirements together with interest on each such amount from the date
demanded until payment in full thereof at the Daily Borrowing Rate. A
certificate setting forth in reasonable detail the amount necessary to
compensate such Affected Party as a result of an imposition of or increase in
capital requirements submitted by the Deal Agent to the Borrower shall be
conclusive, absent manifest error, as to the amount thereof.

          (b)  In the event that any Regulatory Change shall:  (i) change the
 basis of taxation of any amounts payable to any Affected Party in respect of
 any Loans (other than taxes imposed on the overall net income of such Affected
 Party for any such Loans by the United States of America or the jurisdiction in
 which such Affected Party has its principal office); (ii) impose or modify any
 reserve, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premium or assessment, special
 deposit or similar requirements relating to any extensions of credit or other
 assets of, or any deposits with or other liabilities of, such Affected Party;
 or (iii) impose any other conditions affecting this Agreement in respect of
 Loans (or any of such extensions of credit, assets, deposits or liabilities);
 and the result of any event referred to in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above
 shall be to increase such Affected Party's costs of making or maintaining any
 Loans or its commitment under a Program Document, or to reduce any amount
 receivable by such Affected Party hereunder in respect of any of its Loans or
 its commitment (such increases in costs and reductions in amounts receivable
 are hereinafter referred to as "Additional Costs") then, upon demand made by
                                 ----------------                            
 the Deal Agent on behalf of such Affected Party, as promptly as practicable
 after it obtains knowledge that such a Regulatory Change exists and determines
 to make such demand, the Borrower shall pay to the Collateral Agent on behalf
 of such Affected Party, from time to time as specified by the Deal Agent,
 additional commitment fees or other amounts which shall be sufficient to
 compensate such Affected Party for the Borrower's Share of such increased cost
 or reduction in amounts receivable by such Affected Party from the date of such
 change, together with interest on each such amount from the date demanded until
 payment in full thereof at the Daily Borrowing Rate.

          (c)  Determinations by any Affected Party for purposes of this Section
 2.10 of the effect of any Regulatory Change on its costs of making or
 maintaining Loans or on amounts receivable by it in respect of Loans, and of
 the additional amounts required to compensate such Affected Party in respect of
 any Additional Costs, shall be set forth in a written notice to the Borrower in
 reasonable detail and shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.

          (d)  If the Borrower is required to pay any additional amounts
 pursuant to a Regulatory Change, then the Borrower may terminate the Maximum
 Facility Amount prior to any such Regulatory Change pursuant to Section 2.03(a)
 and make an Optional Prepayment of Advances without incurring any amounts
 payable pursuant to Section 2.11 resulting solely from such Optional Prepayment
 of Advances.

          Section 2.11.  Breakage Costs.  The Borrower shall pay to the
                         --------------                                  
Liquidity Agent for the account of each Lender, upon the request of the
Liquidity Agent or the Deal Agent, such amount or amounts as shall compensate
the Lenders for any loss (including loss of profit), cost or expense incurred by
the Lenders (as reasonably determined by the Liquidity Agent or the Deal Agent)
as a result of any repayment of an Advance (and interest thereon) other than on
the maturity date of the Commercial Paper funding such Advance, such
compensation to include, without limitation, an amount equal to any loss or
expense suffered by the Lenders during the period from the date of receipt of
such repayment to (but excluding) the maturity date of such Commercial Paper, if
the rate of interest obtainable by the Lenders upon the redeployment of an
amount of funds equal to the amount of such repayment (including for such
purpose reinvestment income on such amount in the Collection Account) is less
than the Daily Yield applicable to such Commercial Paper (such expense to be
referred to as "Breakage Costs").  The determination by any Lender of the amount
                --------------                                                  
of any such loss or expense shall be set forth in a written notice to the
Borrower in reasonable detail and shall be conclusive, absent manifest error. No

                                      -26-
<PAGE>
 
Breakage Costs will be payable by the Borrower under this Section 2.11 if (i)
the Borrower gives the Deal Agent advance notice of a Securitization, including
the date thereof, (ii) the Lender subsequently issues Commercial Paper with a
maturity date after the date of such Securitization, and (iii) the Lender incurs
Breakage Costs in connection with a repayment of an Advance funded by the
issuance of such post-notice Commercial Paper.

          Section 2.12.  Taxes.
                         -----   

               (a)  Any and all payments by the Borrower or the Servicer
     hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any and
     all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or
     withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, excluding, in the
                                                             ---------        
     case of the Lenders and the Deal Agent, Income Taxes that are imposed on a
     Lender or the Deal Agent by the state or foreign jurisdiction under the
     laws of which such Lender or the Deal Agent (as the case may be) is
     organized or conducts business or any political subdivision thereof (all
     such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings
     and liabilities being hereinafter referred to as "Taxes").  If the Borrower
                                                       -----                    
     or the Servicer shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in
     respect of any sum payable hereunder to a Lender or the Deal Agent, (i) the
     Borrower shall make an additional payment to such Lender or the Deal Agent,
     as the case may be, in an amount sufficient so that, after making all
     required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums
     payable under this section), such Lender or the Deal Agent (as the case may
     be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such
     deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower or the Servicer, as the case may
     be, shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower or the Servicer, as
     the case may be, shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant
     taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.

               (b)  The Borrower will indemnify each Lender and the Deal Agent
     for the full amount of Taxes (including, without limitation, any Taxes
     imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this section) paid by
     such Lender or the Deal Agent (as the case may be) and any liability
     (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with
     respect thereto; provided that such Lender or the Deal Agent, as
                      --------                                       
     appropriate, making a demand for indemnity payment shall provide the
     Borrower with a certificate from the relevant taxing authority or from a
     responsible officer of such Lender or the Deal Agent stating or otherwise
     evidencing that such Lender or the Deal Agent has made payment of such
     Taxes and will provide a copy of or extract from documentation, if
     available, furnished by such taxing authority evidencing assertion or
     payment of such Taxes.  This indemnification shall be made within ten days
     from the date the Lender or the Deal Agent (as the case may be) makes
     written demand therefor.

               (c)  Within thirty (30) days after the date of any payment by the
     Borrower of any Taxes, the Borrower will furnish to the Deal Agent
     appropriate evidence of payment thereof.

               (d)  If a Lender is not created or organized under the laws of
     the United States or a political subdivision thereof, such Lender shall, to
     the extent that it may then do so under applicable laws and regulations,
     deliver to the Borrower (with, in the case of a Lender, a copy to the Deal
     Agent) (i) within 15 days after the date hereof, or, if later, the date on
     which such Lender becomes a Lender pursuant to this Agreement two (or such
     other number as may from time to time be prescribed by applicable laws or
     regulations) duly completed copies of IRS Form 4224 or Form 1001 (or any
     successor forms or other certificates or statements which may be required
     from time to time by the relevant United States taxing authorities or
     applicable laws or regulations), as appropriate, to permit the Borrower to
     make payments hereunder for the account of such Lender, as the case may be,
     without deduction or withholding of Income Taxes and (ii) upon the
     obsolescence of or after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in,
     any form or certificate previously delivered pursuant to this Section
     2.12(d), copies (in such numbers as may from time to time be prescribed by
     applicable laws or regulations) of such additional, amended or successor
     forms, certificates or statements as may be required under applicable laws
     or regulations to permit the Borrower to make payments hereunder for the
     account of such Lender, without deduction or withholding of Income Taxes.

                                      -27-
<PAGE>
 
               (e)  For any period with respect to which a Lender or the Deal
     Agent has failed to provide the Borrower with the appropriate form,
     certificate or statement described in clause (d) of this section (other
                                                                       -----
     than if such failure is due to a change in law occurring after the date of
     ----                                                                      
     this Agreement), the Deal Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, shall
     not be entitled to indemnification under clauses (a) or (b) of this section
     with respect to any Taxes.

               (f)  Within thirty (30) days of the written request of the
     Borrower therefor, the Deal Agent and such Lender, as appropriate, shall
     execute and deliver to the Borrower such certificates, forms or other
     documents which can be furnished consistent with the facts and which are
     reasonably necessary to assist the Borrower in applying for refunds of
     taxes remitted hereunder.

               (g)  If, in connection with an agreement or other document
     providing liquidity support, credit enhancement or other similar support to
     the Lenders in connection with this Agreement or the funding or maintenance
     of Advances hereunder, the Lenders are required to compensate a bank or
     other financial institution in respect of taxes under circumstances similar
     to those described in this section then within ten days after demand by the
     Lenders, the Borrower shall pay to the Lenders such additional amount or
     amounts as may be necessary to reimburse the Lenders for any amounts paid
     by them.

               (h)  Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of
     the Borrower hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrower
     contained in this section shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

                                  ARTICLE III

                             CONDITIONS TO LENDING

          Section 3.01.  Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Agreement.
                         --------------------------------------------------    
The effectiveness of this Agreement is subject to the condition precedent that
the Deal Agent shall have received on or before the Effective Date the
following, in form and substance satisfactory to the Deal Agent:

          (a)  An executed copy of each Basic Document, each in a form approved
 by the Deal Agent and evidence to the effect that all conditions precedent to
 the effectiveness thereof shall have been satisfied;

          (b)  A certificate from an officer of the Parent in the form of
 Exhibit D to the effect that the performance of the Receivables Transfer
 Agreement will not render the Borrower insolvent and the Borrower will be able
 to remain economically viable without further investments by the Parent for the
 foreseeable future;

          (c)  With respect to the Borrower:

               (i)   the certificate or articles of incorporation of the
          Borrower certified, as of a date no more than ten (10) days prior to
          the Effective Date, by the Secretary of State of its state of
          incorporation;

               (ii)  a good standing certificate, dated no more than ten (10)
          days prior to the Effective Date, from the respective Secretary of
          State of its state of incorporation and each state in which the
          Borrower is required to qualify, or represents that it is qualified,
          to do business;

               (iii) a certificate of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of
          the Borrower certifying as of the Effective Date:  (A) the names and
          true signatures of the officers authorized on its behalf to sign this
          Agreement, (B) a copy of the Borrower's by-laws, and (C) a copy of the
          resolutions of the board of directors of the Borrower approving the
          Basic Documents to which it is a party and the transactions
          contemplated hereby and thereby;

                                      -28-
<PAGE>
 
               (iv)  an Officer's Certificate in the form of Exhibit E hereto;
          and

               (v)   the Notes shall have been duly executed and delivered by
          the Borrower to the Deal Agent and shall be in full force and effect.

          (d)  With respect to the Servicer:

               (i)   the certificate or articles of incorporation of the
          Servicer certified, as of a date no more than ten (10) days prior to
          the Effective Date, by the Secretary of State of its state of
          incorporation;

               (ii)  a good standing certificate, dated no more than ten (10)
          days prior to the Effective Date, from the respective Secretary of
          State of its state of incorporation and each state in which the
          Servicer is required to qualify, or represents that it is qualified,
          to do business;

               (iii) a certificate of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of
          the Servicer certifying as of the Effective Date:  (A) the names and
          true signatures of the officers authorized on its behalf to sign this
          Agreement, (B) a copy of the Servicer's by-laws, and (C) a copy of the
          resolutions of the board of directors of the Servicer approving the
          Basic Documents to which it is a party and the transactions
          contemplated thereby and hereby; and

               (iv)  an Officer's Certificate in the form of Exhibit F hereto;

          (e)  Certified copies of requests for information or copies on form
UCC-11 (or a similar search report certified by a party acceptable to the Deal
Agent), dated a date no more than fourteen (14) days prior to the Effective Date
listing all effective financing statements and other similar instruments and
documents which name the Parent (under its present name and any previous name)
as debtor, together with copies of such financing statements;

          (f)  Executed financing statements (form UCC-3), if any, necessary to
release all security interests and other rights of any Person in Transferred
Receivables previously granted by the Parent including, without limitation, all
such releases specified by the Parent prior to the date hereof;

          (g)  Any necessary third party including any Governmental Authority)
consents to the closing of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower or Servicer hereby, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Deal Agent;

          (h)  Executed financing statements (form UCC-1), in respect of
Transferred Receivables, (i) pursuant to the Receivables Transfer Agreement,
naming the Parent as the assignor and the Borrower as the assignee, and (ii)
pursuant to Article VIII, naming the Borrower as the debtor, the Collateral
Agent on behalf of the Lenders as secured parties, or other, similar instruments
or documents, as may be necessary or, in the opinion of the Deal Agent,
desirable under the UCC of all appropriate jurisdictions or any other applicable
law (including the Assignment of Claims Act) to perfect the Collateral Agent's
interests in all Transferred Receivables in which an interest may be assigned
hereunder;

          (i)  The opinion of counsel to the Borrower and the Parent in form and
 substance satisfactory to Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent;

          (j)  The favorable opinion of co-counsel to the Borrower and the
Parent, as to the true sale of the Transferred Receivables from the Parent to
the Borrower, the nonconsolidation of the Borrower's assets into the bankruptcy
estate of the Parent and such other matters as the Deal Agent may require;

          (k)  Payment of the Lenders' estimated legal fees and other fees and
costs as specified in the Fee Letter;

                                      -29-
<PAGE>
 
          (l)  Consolidated and consolidating balance sheets and statements of
income and changes in financing position of the Parent and its Subsidiaries for
each of the years in the three year period ended the Balance Sheet Date, audited
by a nationally recognized accounting firm except with respect to consolidating
statements;

          (m)  The Borrower's pro-forma balance sheet, dated as of the calendar
quarter preceding the Effective Date and certified by the chief financial
officer of the Parent;

          (n)  Confirmation of the ratings of the Commercial Paper as A-1 by S&P
and P-1 by Moody's;

          (o)  A copy of the Parent's Credit and Collection Policies;

          (p)  Establishment of a cash management system acceptable to the
Lender and the Deal Agent;

          (q)  The Borrower shall have executed an Assignment of Insurance
Interests;

          (r)  Fully executed copies of the Lockbox Agreement; and

          (s)  Such other approvals, consents, opinions, documents and
instruments, as the Deal Agent may reasonably request.

          Section 3.02.  Conditions Precedent to All Advances.    Each Advance
                         ------------------------------------                 
(including the initial Advance) shall be subject to the further conditions
precedent that:

          (a)  On the related Funding Date, the Borrower shall have certified in
the related Borrowing Base Certificate that, except as specifically disclosed in
the related Borrower Notice (or specifically disclosed in a prior instance to
the Deal Agent in writing), and specifically consented to by the Deal Agent in
its sole discretion:

               (i)   The representations and warranties of the Borrower, the
     Parent and the Servicer set forth in Sections 4.01, 4.02 and 4.03 are true
     and correct on and as of such date, before and after giving effect to such
     borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made
     on and as of such date;

               (ii)  No event has occurred, or would result from such Advance or
     from the application of the proceeds therefrom, which constitutes a
     Termination Event or would constitute a Termination Event but for the
     requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both;

               (iii) The Borrower is in compliance with each of its covenants
     set forth herein; and

               (iv)  No event has occurred which constitutes an Event of
     Servicer Termination or would constitute an Event of Servicer Termination
     but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both;

          (b)  The Commitment Termination Date shall not have occurred;

          (c)  Before and after giving effect to such borrowing and to the
application of proceeds therefrom, there exists no Borrowing Excess;

          (d)  Each Transferred Receivable submitted by the Borrower for
computation of the Borrowing Base is an Eligible Receivable; and

                                      -30-
<PAGE>
 
          (e)  No claim has been asserted or proceeding commenced challenging
the Basic Documents;

          (f)  The Deal Agent has not obtained or been provided with material
adverse credit information about the Parent, which information has not been
disproved by the Parent to the satisfaction of the Deal Agent;

          (g)  There shall have been no material adverse change in the condition
(financial or otherwise), business, operations, results of operations, or
properties of the Borrower since the preceding Advance.

          (h)  The Deal Agent shall have received evidence that the Custodian
has received the related Obligor Delivery Documents.

          (i)  The Parent and Borrower shall have taken such other action,
including delivery of approvals, consents, opinions, documents and instruments
to the Lender and the Deal Agent, as the Deal Agent may reasonably request.

                                  ARTICLE IV

                        REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

          Section 4.01.  Representations and Warranties of the Borrower.  The
                         ----------------------------------------------         
Borrower represents and warrants to the Deal Agent and the Lenders as of the
date hereof, as of the Effective Date and on each subsequent Funding Date as
follows:

          (a)  The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing
and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and is
duly qualified to do business, and is in good standing, in each jurisdiction in
which the nature of its business requires it to be so qualified.

          (b)  The Borrower has the power and authority to own, pledge,
mortgage, operate and convey all of its properties, to conduct its business as
now or proposed to be conducted and to execute and deliver the Basic Documents
and to perform the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.

          (c)  The Borrower is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Parent.

          (d)  The Borrower is operated in such a manner that it would not be
substantively consolidated in the trust estate of the Parent (that is, such that
the separate corporate existence of the Borrower and the Parent would be
disregarded), in the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency of the Parent and in
such regard:

               (i)   the Borrower is a limited purpose corporation whose
     activities are restricted in its certificate or articles of incorporation;

               (ii)  neither the Parent nor any Affiliate of the Parent is
     involved in the day-to-day management of the Borrower.

               (iii) other than the purchase and contribution of Receivables
     and other transactions contemplated by the Receivables Transfer Agreement,
     transactions contemplated by other securitizations and the underlying
     facilities thereto, the payment of dividends and the return of capital, any
     lease or sublease of office space or equipment, and the payment of
     Servicing Fees to the Servicer under this Agreement, the Borrower engages
     in no intercorporate transactions with the Parent or any Affiliate of the
     Parent;

                                      -31-
<PAGE>
 
               (iv)   the Borrower maintains separate corporate records and
     books of account from the Parent, holds regular corporate meetings, and
     otherwise observes corporate formalities and has a separate business office
     from the Parent, which office may be a clearly identifiable, separately
     allocated space on the premises of the Parent;

               (v)    the financial statements and books and records of the
     Borrower and the Parent prepared after the Effective Date reflect the
     separate corporate existence of the Borrower;

               (vi)   the Borrower maintains its assets separately from the
     assets of the Parent and any other Affiliate of the Parent (including
     through the maintenance of separate bank accounts), the Borrower's funds
     and assets, and records relating thereto, have not been and are not
     commingled with those of the Parent or any other Affiliate of the Parent
     and the separate creditors of the Borrower will be entitled to be satisfied
     out of the Borrower's assets prior to any value in the Borrower becoming
     available to the Borrower's equity holders;

               (vii)  neither the Parent nor any Affiliate of the Parent (A)
     pays the Borrower's expenses; (B) guarantees the Borrower's obligations, or
     (C) advances funds to the Borrower for the payment of expenses or
     otherwise;

               (viii) all business correspondence of the Borrower and other
     communications are conducted in the Borrower's own name, on its own
     stationery and through a separately-listed telephone number;

               (ix)   the Borrower does not act as agent for the Parent or any
     of its Affiliates, but instead presents itself to the public as a
     corporation separate from the Parent, independently engaged in the business
     of purchasing and financing Receivables;

               (x)    the Borrower maintains at least one independent director
     who at all times shall not be a shareholder, director, officer, employee or
     associate of the Parent or any Affiliate of the Parent (other than the
     Borrower and except that such independent director may be a director of one
     or more other limited purpose subsidiaries of the Parent) as provided in
     its certificate or articles of incorporation;

               (xi)   the Borrower is solvent and will not be rendered insolvent
     by the transactions contemplated by the Basic Documents and, after giving
     effect to such transactions, the Borrower will not be left with an
     unreasonably small amount of capital with which to engage in its business
     nor will the Borrower have intended to incur, or believe that it has
     incurred, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature, and
     the Borrower does not contemplate the commencement of insolvency,
     bankruptcy, liquidation or consolidation proceedings or the appointment of
     a receiver, liquidator, conservator trustee or similar official in respect
     of the Borrower or any of its assets; and

               (xii)  the bylaws or Articles of Incorporation of the Borrower
     require it to maintain (A) correct and complete books and records of
     account, and (B) minutes of the meetings and other proceedings of its
     shareholders and board of directors.

          (e)  Except as permitted by the Receivables Transfer Agreement and
this Agreement, the Borrower has not engaged, and does not presently engage, in
any activity other than the activities undertaken pursuant to the Basic
Documents, nor has the Borrower entered into any agreement other than the Basic
Documents and any agreement necessary to undertake any activity pursuant to the
Basic Documents.

          (f)  The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the
Basic Documents and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby (i) have
been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action on the part of
the Borrower, (ii) do not contravene or cause the Borrower to be in default
under (A) the Borrower's certificate or articles of incorporation or by-laws,
(B) any contractual restriction contained in any indenture, loan or credit
agreement, lease, mortgage, security agreement, bond, note, or other agreement
or 

                                      -32-
<PAGE>
 
instrument binding on or affecting the Borrower or its property or the Parent
or its property, or (C) any law, rule, regulation, order, license requirement,
writ, judgment, award, injunction, or decree applicable to, binding on or
affecting the Borrower or its property or the Parent or its property, and (iii)
do not result in or require the creation of any Adverse Claim upon or with
respect to any of the property of the Borrower or the Parent (other than in
favor of the Lenders and the Collateral Agent as contemplated hereunder).

          (g)  The Basic Documents have each been duly executed and delivered by
the Borrower.

          (h)  No consent of, notice to, filing with or permits, qualifications
or other action by any Governmental Authority or any other party is required (i)
for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Basic
Documents, (ii) for the perfection of or the exercise by each of the Lenders,
the Deal Agent or the Collateral Agent of any of its rights or remedies
hereunder or thereunder, (iii) for the grant by the Borrower of the security
interests granted under Section 8.01 of this Agreement, (iv) for the perfection
of or the exercise by each of the Lenders or the Collateral Agent of its rights
and remedies provided for in this Agreement, or (v) to ensure the legality,
validity, enforceability or admissibility into evidence of this Agreement in any
jurisdiction in which any of the Collateral is located, in each case other than
consents, notices, filings and other actions which have been obtained or made
and complete copies of which have been provided to the Deal Agent.

          (i)  No transaction contemplated by this Agreement requires compliance
with any bulk sales act or similar law.

          (j)  Each Basic Document is the legal, valid and binding obligation of
 the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its respective
 terms.  Each of the Borrower Assigned Agreements to which the Parent or the
 Borrower is a party constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of such
 Person, enforceable against such Person in accordance with its terms, subject
 to any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other
 similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to or affecting the
 enforceability of creditors' rights generally and general equitable principles,
 whether applied in a proceeding at law or in equity.

          (k)  There is no pending or threatened, nor any reasonable basis for
any, action, suit or proceeding against or affecting the Borrower, its officers
or directors, or the property of the Borrower, in any court or tribunal, before
any arbitrator of any kind or before or by any Governmental Authority.

          (l)  No injunction, writ, restraining order or other order of any
nature adverse to the Borrower or the conduct of its business or which is
inconsistent with the due consummation of the transactions contemplated by the
Basic Documents has been issued by a Governmental Authority nor been sought by
any Person.

          (m)  The principal place of business and chief executive office of the
 Borrower, and the office where the Borrower keeps its Records and the original
 copies of the Borrower Assigned Agreements are located at the address of the
 Borrower for notices under Section 14.01 and as set forth on Schedule 1, and
 there are currently no, and during the past four months (or such shorter time
 as the Borrower has been in existence) there have not been any, other locations
 where the Borrower is located (as that term is used in the UCC of the
 jurisdiction where such principal place of business is located) or keeps
 Records.

          (n)  The Borrower does not have and has never conducted business using
 tradenames, fictitious names, assumed names or "doing business as" names.

          (o)  The Borrower does not have any Subsidiaries.

          (p)  The Borrower is solvent and will not become insolvent after
giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Basic Documents. The
Borrower has no Debts to any Person other than pursuant to the Basic Documents.
The Borrower, after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Basic
Documents, will have an adequate amount of capital to conduct its business in
the foreseeable future.

                                      -33-
<PAGE>
 
          (q)  For federal income tax, reporting and accounting purposes, the
Borrower will treat the purchase or absolute assignment of each Transferred
Receivable pursuant to the Receivables Transfer Agreement as a purchase or
absolute assignment of the Parent's full right, title, and ownership interest in
such Transferred Receivable to the Borrower (and those Receivables contributed
to the Borrower by the Parent pursuant to the Receivables Transfer Agreement
shall be accounted for as an increase in the stated capital of the Borrower) and
the Borrower has not in any other manner accounted for or treated the transfers
of Transferred Receivables contemplated in this Agreement or the other Basic
Documents.

          (r)  The Borrower has complied and will comply in all respects with
all applicable laws, rules, regulations, judgments, agreements, decrees and
orders with respect to its business and properties and all Collateral.

          (s)  The Borrower has filed on a timely basis all tax returns
(including, without limitation, foreign, federal, state, local and otherwise)
required to be filed, is not liable for taxes payable by any other Person and
has paid or made adequate provisions for the payment of all taxes, assessments
and other governmental charges due from the Borrower.  No tax lien or similar
Adverse Claim has been filed, and no claim is being asserted, with respect to
any such tax, assessment or other governmental charge.  Any taxes, fees and
other governmental charges payable by the Parent in connection with the
execution and delivery of the Basic Documents and the transactions contemplated
hereby or thereby have been paid or shall have been paid if and when due at or
prior to such Sale Date.

          (t)  Each Borrowing Base Certificate and Request Notice is accurate in
all material respects.

          (u)  The Collateral and each part thereof is owned by the Borrower
free and clear of any Adverse Claim or Restrictions on Transferability and the
Borrower has the full right, corporate power and lawful authority to assign,
transfer and pledge the same and interests therein and all substitutions
therefor and additions thereto pursuant to Section 8.01, and upon making each
Advance, the Collateral Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties will have
acquired a perfected, first priority and valid security interest in such
Collateral, free and clear of any Adverse Claim or Restrictions on
Transferability. No effective financing statement or other instrument similar in
effect covering all or any part of the Collateral is on file in any recording
office, except such as may have been filed in favor of the Collateral Agent as
"Secured Party" pursuant to Article VIII of this Agreement or, with respect to
 -------------                                                                
the Transferred Receivables, in favor of the Borrower pursuant to the
Receivables Transfer Agreement.

          (v)  Each Transferred Receivable was purchased by or contributed to
the Borrower on the relevant Sale Date pursuant to the Receivables Transfer
Agreement.

          (w)  Each purchase of Receivables under the Receivables Transfer
Agreement will constitute (i) a "current transaction" within the meaning of
Section 3(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and (ii) a purchase
or other acquisition of notes, drafts, acceptances, open accounts receivable or
other obligations representing part or all of the sales price of merchandise,
insurance or services within the meaning of Section 3(c)(5) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940, as amended.

          (x)  All information heretofore or hereafter furnished by or on behalf
of the Borrower to the Collateral Agent, the Deal Agent or any Lender in
connection with this Agreement or any transaction contemplated hereby is and
will be true and complete in all material respects and does not and will not
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements contained therein
not misleading.

          (y)  The Borrower is in compliance with ERISA and has not incurred and
does not expect to incur any liabilities (except for premium payments arising in
the ordinary course  of business) to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
("PBGC") (or any successor thereto) under ERISA.
  ----                                          

                                      -34-
<PAGE>
 
          (z)  (i)  The Borrower is not a party to any indenture, loan or credit
agreement or any lease or other agreement or instrument or subject to any
charter or corporation restriction that could have, and no provision of
applicable law or governmental regulation is reasonably likely to have, a
material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), business,
operations, results of operations or properties of the Borrower, or could have
such an effect on the ability of the Borrower to carry out its obligations under
the Basic Documents to which the Borrower is a party and (ii) the Borrower is
not in default under or with respect to any contract, agreement, lease or other
instrument to which the Borrower is a party and which is material to the
Borrower's condition (financial or otherwise), business, operations or
properties, and the Borrower has not delivered or received any notice of default
thereunder.

          (aa) There has been no material adverse change in the condition
(financial or otherwise), business, operations, results of operations, or
properties of the Borrower.

          (bb) The Borrower is not an "investment company" or an "affiliated
person" of, or "promoter" or "principal underwriter" for, an "investment
company," as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as
amended.  The making of the Advances by the Lenders, the application of the
proceeds and repayment thereof by the Borrower and the consummation of the
transactions contemplated by the Basic Documents to which the Borrower is a
party will not violate any provision of such Act or any rule, regulation or
order issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder.

          (cc) There is not now, nor will there be at any time in the future,
any agreement or understanding between the Parent and the Borrower (other than
as expressly set forth herein) providing for the allocation or sharing of
obligations to make payments or otherwise in respect of any taxes, fees,
assessments or other governmental charges.

          (dd) Each of the representations and warranties of the Borrower
contained in the Basic Documents is true and correct in all material respects
and the Borrower hereby makes each such representation and warranty to, and for
the benefit of, the Collateral Agent, the Deal Agent and the Lenders as if the
same were set forth in full herein.

          (ee) Schedule 2 lists all Lockboxes and the Lockbox Account maintained
by the Borrower or otherwise in respect of the Transferred Receivables.

          Section 4.02.  Representations and Warranties of the Borrower With
                         ---------------------------------------------------
Respect to the Parent and the Transferred Receivables. The Borrower represents
- -----------------------------------------------------                 
and warrants to the Lender, the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent that on the
Effective Date it has entered into the Receivables Transfer Agreement with the
Parent and that, as of each Funding Date, the Parent has made the following
representations and warranties pursuant to such Receivables Transfer Agreement
as of each Sale Date, which representations and warranties are or will be true
and correct as of such Sale Date:

          (a)  With respect to the Parent:

               (i)   the Parent is a corporation duly organized, validly
     existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of
     incorporation and is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing
     in every jurisdiction in which the nature of its business requires it to be
     so qualified;

               (ii)  the Parent has the power and authority to own, pledge,
     mortgage, operate and convey all of its properties and assets, to execute
     and deliver the Basic Documents and to perform the transactions
     contemplated hereby and thereby;

               (iii) the Parent is operated in such a manner that the Borrower
     would not be substantively consolidated in the trust estate of the Parent
     (that is, such that the separate corporate existence of the Borrower and
     the Parent would be disregarded in the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency
     of the Parent);

                                      -35-
<PAGE>
 
               (iv)  the execution, delivery and performance by the Parent of
     the Basic Documents and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby
     (A) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action on
     the part of the Parent, (B) do not contravene or cause the Parent to be in
     default under (1) the Parent's certificate or articles of incorporation or
     by-laws, (2) any contractual restriction with respect to any Debt of the
     Parent or its Affiliates, contained in any indenture, loan or credit
     agreement, lease, mortgage, security agreement, bond, note, or other
     agreement or instrument binding on or affecting the Parent or its property,
     or (3) any law, rule, regulation, order, writ, judgment, award, injunction
     or decree applicable to, binding on or affecting the Parent or its
     property, and (C) do not result in or require the creation of any Adverse
     Claim or Restrictions on Transferability upon or with respect to any of its
     properties (other than in favor of the Borrower with respect to the
     Receivables Transfer Agreement and the Lender and the Collateral Agent
     under Article VIII of this Agreement);

               (v)   the Basic Documents have each been duly executed and
     delivered by the Parent;

               (vi)   no approval or consent of, notice to, filing with or
     licenses, permits, qualifications or other action by any Governmental
     Authority or any other party, is required or necessary for the conduct of
     the Parent's business as currently conducted and for the due execution,
     delivery and performance by the Parent of the Basic Documents or for the
     perfection of or the exercise by the Borrower, the Lenders, the Deal Agent
     or the Collateral Agent of any of their rights or remedies hereunder or
     thereunder, other than consents, notices, filings and other actions which
     have been obtained or made and complete copies of which have been provided
     to the Lenders, the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent;

               (vii)  each Basic Document delivered by the Parent is (or upon
     execution and delivery will be if not executed and delivered as of the date
     hereof) the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Parent enforceable
     against the Parent in accordance with its respective terms subject to (i)
     any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other
     similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to or affecting the
     enforceability of creditors' rights generally and (ii) general equitable
     principles, whether applied in a proceeding at law or in equity;

               (viii) there is no pending or threatened, nor any reasonable
     basis for any, action, suit or proceeding, against or affecting the Parent,
     its officers or directors, or the property of the Parent, in any court or
     tribunal, before any arbitrator of any kind or before or by any
     Governmental Authority (A) asserting the invalidity of the Basic Documents,
     (B) seeking to prevent the transfer, sale, contribution, or pledge of any
     Receivable or the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated
     hereby or thereby, (C) seeking any determination or ruling that might
     materially and adversely affect (1) the performance by the Borrower or the
     Parent of its obligations under the Basic Documents, (2) the validity or
     enforceability of the Basic Documents, (3) the Transferred Receivables, the
     Contracts or the interests or the Borrower or the Lender therein, or (4)
     the federal income tax attributes of the contribution, sale or pledge of
     the Transferred Receivables, or (D) asserting a claim for payment of money
     in excess of $500,000 (other than such judgments or orders in respect of
     which adequate insurance is maintained by the Parent for the payment
     thereof);

               (ix)  no injunction, writ, restraining order or other order of
     any nature adverse to the Parent or the conduct of its business or which is
     inconsistent with the due consummation of the transactions contemplated by
     the Basic Documents has been issued by a Governmental Authority nor been
     sought by any Person;

               (x)   the principal place of business and chief executive office
     of the Parent are located at the address of the Parent referred to in the
     Receivables Transfer Agreement and there are now no, and during the past
     four months there have not been any, other locations where the Parent is
     located (as that term is used in the UCC of the jurisdiction where such
     principal place of business is located) or keeps Records;

                                      -36-
<PAGE>
 
               (xi)   the legal name of the Parent is as set forth at the
     beginning of this Agreement and the Parent has not changed its name in the
     last six (6) years, and during such period the Parent did not use, nor does
     the Parent now use, any tradenames, fictitious names, assumed names or
     "doing business as" names;

               (xii)  the Parent is solvent and will not become insolvent after
     giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Basic Documents, the
     Parent is paying its Debts as they mature; the Parent has not incurred
     Debts beyond its ability to pay as they mature; and the Parent, after
     giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Basic Documents, will
     have an adequate amount of capital to conduct its business in the
     foreseeable future;

               (xiii) for federal income tax, reporting and accounting purposes,
     the Parent will treat the sale of each Receivable sold or assigned pursuant
     to the Receivables Transfer Agreement as a sale of, or absolute assignment
     of, its full right title and ownership interest in such Receivable to the
     Borrower (and those Receivables contributed to the Borrower by the Parent
     pursuant to the Receivables Transfer Agreement shall be accounted for as an
     increase in the stated capital of the Borrower), and the Parent has not in
     any other respect accounted for or treated the transactions contemplated by
     the Basic Documents;

               (xiv)  the Parent has complied in all material respects with all
     applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders with respect to it, its
     business and properties and all Receivables and related Contracts
     (including, without limitation, all applicable environmental, health and
     safety requirements) and all restrictions contained in any indenture, loan
     or credit agreement, mortgage, security agreement, bond, note or other
     agreement or instrument binding on or affecting the Parent or its property,
     and has and maintains all permits, licenses, authorizations, registrations,
     approvals and consents of Governmental Authorities for (A) the activities
     and business of the Parent and each of its Subsidiaries as currently
     conducted and as proposed to be conducted, (B) the ownership, use,
     operation and maintenance by each of them of its properties, facilities and
     assets, and (C) the performance by the Parent and the Borrower of the Basic
     Documents (hereinafter referred to collectively as "Governmental
                                                         ------------
     Consents"), with respect to which any noncompliance or failure to maintain
     --------
     such items would, separately or in the aggregate, have a material adverse
     effect;

               (xv)   no practice, procedure or policy employed or proposed to
     be employed by the Parent in the conduct of its business violates any law,
     regulation, Judgment, agreement, order or decree applicable to the Parent
     which, if enforced, would have a material adverse effect on (1) the
     performance by the Borrower or the Parent of its obligations under the
     Basic Documents to which it is a party, (2) the validity or enforceability
     of the Basic Documents, (3) the Transferred Receivables or the Contracts or
     the interests of the Borrower or the Lender therein, or (4) the federal
     income tax attributes of the contribution, sale or pledge of the
     Transferred Receivables;

               (xvi)  without limiting the generality of the prior
     representation, no condition exists or event has occurred which, in itself
     or with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would result in the
     suspension, revocation, impairment, forfeiture or non-renewal of any
     Governmental Consent applicable to the Parent or any Subsidiary except
     where such events or conditions would not, separately or in the aggregate,
     have a material adverse effect on (1) the performance by the Borrower or
     the Parent of its obligations under the Basic Documents to which it is a
     party, (2) the validity or enforceability of the Basic Documents, (3) the
     Transferred Receivables or the Contracts or the interests of the Borrower
     or Lenders therein, or (4) the federal income tax attributes of the
     contribution, sale or pledge of the Transferred Receivables;

               (xvii) the Parent has filed on a timely basis all tax returns,
     (including, without limitation, foreign, federal, state, local and
     otherwise) required to be filed and has paid or made adequate provisions
     for the payment of all taxes, fees, assessments and other governmental
     charges due from the Parent; no tax lien or similar Adverse Claim has been
     filed, and no claim is being asserted, with respect to any such tax, fees,
     assessment or other governmental charge.  Any taxes, fees, assessments and
     other 

                                      -37-
<PAGE>
 
     governmental charges payable by the Parent in connection with the execution
     and delivery of the Basic Documents and the transactions contemplated
     hereby or thereby have been paid or shall have been paid if and when due at
     or prior to such Sale Date;

               (xviii) with respect to the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries,
     there has occurred no event which has or is reasonably likely to have a
     material adverse affect on the Parent's operations, including its ability
     to perform its obligations under the Basic Documents as Parent, Servicer or
     otherwise;

               (xix)   the Parent is licensed or otherwise has the lawful right
     to use all patents, trademarks, servicemarks, tradenames, copyrights,
     technology, know-how and processes used in or necessary for the conduct of
     its business as currently conducted that are material to its financial
     condition, business, operations, results of operations and assets,
     individually or taken as a whole;

               (xx)    (i) (A) the consolidated balance sheets of the Parent and
     its consolidated Subsidiaries for each of the last three fiscal years in
     the period ending prior to the Balance Sheet Date as delivered prior to
     such Sale Date and the related statements of income and shareholders'
     equity of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries for such fiscal
     years then ended, certified without qualification by independent certified
     public accountants, copies of which have been furnished to the Deal Agent,
     are complete and correct, fairly present the consolidated financial
     condition, business, operations and results of operations of the Parent and
     its consolidated Subsidiaries as at such date and the consolidated results
     of the operations of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the
     periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with GAAP and (B) the
     unaudited consolidated balance sheets and the related statements of income
     and shareholders' equity of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries
     for each fiscal quarter in the period since the most recent consolidated
     balance sheet and related statement of income and shareholders' equity
     referred to in clause (A) above and ended at least 45 days prior to such
     Sale Date, copies of which have been furnished to the Deal Agent are
     complete and correct and fairly present the consolidated financial
     condition, business and operations of the Parent and its consolidated
     Subsidiaries as of the last day of such fiscal quarters and the
     consolidated results of the operations of the Parent and its consolidated
     Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with
     GAAP, and (ii) since the last date for which a balance sheet of the Parent
     and its consolidated Subsidiaries has been delivered to the Lender and the
     Deal Agent, except as disclosed to the Deal Agent, there has been no
     material adverse change in any such condition, business, operations or
     results of operations;

               (xxi)   since the last unaudited quarterly financial statements
     of the Company, except as otherwise disclosed to the Deal Agent, there have
     been no material adverse changes in the financial condition or results of
     operation and there have been no material increases in the liabilities
     (liquidated or contingent) and no material decreases in the assets of the
     Parent or the Borrower other than normal recurring seasonal changes
     consistent with prior years' experience;

               (xxii)  each Request Notice contains a complete and accurate list
     of all Transferred Receivables sold or contributed by the Parent to the
     Borrower as of its date;

               (xxiii) there has been no material adverse change in the
     condition (financial or otherwise), business, operations, results of
     operations or properties of the Parent since the Balance Sheet Date;

               (xxiv)  no Obligor of an Eligible Receivable being sold on any
     Sale Date has any claim of a material nature against or affecting the
     Parent or the property of the Parent;

               (xxv)   each pension plan or profit sharing plan to which the
     Parent or any Affiliate is a party has been administered and fully funded
     in accordance with the obligations of the Parent under law 

                                      -38-
<PAGE>
 
     and as set forth in such plan, and the Parent has complied with the
     applicable provisions of ERISA in effect as of such Sale Date;

               (xxvi)   each Obligor of a Transferred Receivable (excluding
     Allotment Obligors) has been directed, and is required to, remit or wire
     all payments with respect to such Receivable for deposit in a Lockbox or
     the Lockbox Account;

               (xxvii)  the Parent has valid business reasons for selling or
     contributing its interests in the Transferred Receivables rather than
     obtaining a loan with the Transferred Receivables as collateral;

               (xxviii) the Parent has not agreed to pay any fee or commission
     to any agent, broker, finder or other person for or on account of services
     rendered as a broker or finder in connection with the Basic Documents or
     the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby which would give rise to
     any valid claim against the Borrower for any brokerage commission, finder's
     fee or like payment;

               (xxix)   all information heretofore or hereafter furnished by the
     Parent or any Affiliate of the Parent with respect to the Parent to the
     Borrower, Lenders, Deal Agent or Collateral Agent in connection with any
     transaction contemplated by the Basic Documents is and will be true and
     complete in all material respects and does not and will not omit to state a
     material fact necessary to make the statements contained herein or therein
     not misleading. With respect to the Parent, there has occurred no event
     which has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect
     thereon;

               (xxx)    no part of the proceeds received by the Parent or any
     Affiliate from the Sale Price will be used directly or indirectly for the
     purpose of purchasing or carrying, or for payment in full or in part of,
     Debt that was incurred for the purposes of purchasing or carrying, any
     "margin stock," as such term is defined in (S) 221.3 of Regulation U of the
     Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;

               (xxxi)   there is not now, nor will there be at any time in the
     future, any agreement or understanding between the Parent and the Borrower
     (other than as expressly set forth herein) providing for the allocation or
     sharing of obligations to make payments or otherwise in respect of any
     taxes, fees, assessments or other governmental charges;

               (xxxii)  no transaction contemplated by the Basic Documents
     requires compliance with any bulk sales act or similar law;

               (xxxiii) each purchase of Receivables under the Receivables
     Transfer Agreement will constitute (A) a "current transaction" within the
     meaning of Section 3(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
     (B) a purchase or other acquisition of notes, drafts, acceptances, open
     accounts receivable or other obligations representing part or all of the
     sales price of merchandise, insurance or services within the meaning of
     Section 3(c)(5) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended;

               (xxxiv)  (A) the Parent is not a party to any indenture, loan or
     credit agreement or any lease or other agreement or instrument or subject
     to any charter or corporation restriction that is reasonably likely to
     have, and no provision of applicable law or governmental regulation is
     reasonably likely to have, a material adverse effect on the condition
     (financial or otherwise), business, operations, results of operations, or
     properties of the Parent, or could, have such an effect on the ability of
     the Parent to carry out its obligations under the Basic Documents to which
     the Parent is a party and (B) the Parent is not in default under or with
     respect to any contract, agreement, lease or other instrument to which the
     Parent is a party and which is material to the Parent's condition
     (financial or otherwise), business, operations, results of operations, or
     properties, and the Parent has not delivered or received any notice of
     default thereunder;

                                      -39-
<PAGE>
 
               (xxxv)   the Parent is not an "investment company" or an
     "affiliated person" of, or "promoter" or "principal underwriter" for, an
     "investment company," as such terms are defined in the investment Company
     Act of 1940 as amended. The purchase or acquisition of the Transferred
     Receivables by the Borrower, the application of the proceeds and the
     consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Basic Documents to
     which the Parent is a party will not violate any provision of such Act or
     any rule, regulation or order issued by the Securities and Exchange
     Commission thereunder;

               (xxxvi)  the bylaws or the articles of incorporation of the
     Parent require it to maintain (A) books and records of account, and (B)
     minutes of the meetings and other proceedings of its shareholders and board
     of directors; and

               (xxxvii) each of the representations and warranties of the Parent
     contained in the Basic Documents is true and correct in all material
     respects and the Parent hereby makes each such representation and warranty
     to, and for the benefit of, the Collateral Agent, the Deal Agent and the
     Lenders as if the same were set forth in full herein.

          (b)  With respect to each Transferred Receivable:

               (i)     the Required Information contained in the Request Notice
     and the Sale Assignment is true and correct;

               (ii)    such Receivable is an Eligible Receivable, and is a
     receivable arising in connection with a Contract in the ordinary course of
     the Parent's business in a current transaction;

               (iii)   such Receivable was created in accordance with the
     requirements of (A)  a Contract and (B) the Credit and Collection Policies;

               (iv)    a copy of any related Contract to which the Parent is a
     party has been delivered to the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent;

               (v)     such Receivable represents the genuine, legal, valid and
     binding obligation in writing of the Obligor enforceable by the holder
     thereof in accordance with its terms subject to (A) any applicable
     bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws
     now or hereafter in effect relating to or affecting the enforceability of
     creditors' rights generally and (B) general equitable principles, whether
     applied in a proceeding at law or in equity, and neither the Receivable nor
     the related Contract has been satisfied, subordinated, rescinded or amended
     in any manner;

               (vi)    neither the Receivable nor the related Contract is or
     will be subject to any exercise of any right of rescission, set-off,
     recoupment, counterclaim or defense, whether arising out of transactions
     concerning the Contract or otherwise;

               (vii)   prior to its sale or contribution to the Borrower such
     Receivable was owned by the Parent free and clear of any Adverse Claim or
     Restrictions on Transferability, and the Parent had the right to
     contribute, sell, assign and transfer the same and interests therein as
     contemplated under the Receivables Transfer Agreement and, upon such sale
     or contribution, the Borrower acquired a valid ownership interest in such
     Receivable, free and clear of any Adverse Claim and any other Restriction
     on Transferability;

               (viii)  this Agreement and the Sale Assignment related to such
     Receivable constitute a valid sale, contribution, transfer, assignment,
     set-over and conveyance to the Borrower of all right, title and interest of
     the Parent in and to such Receivable;

               (ix)    such Receivable was purchased or contributed under the
     Receivables Transfer Agreement, and the Receivables Transfer Agreement and
     the related Sale Assignment constitutes a valid 

                                      -40-
<PAGE>
 
     transfer, assignment, set-over and conveyance to the Borrower of all right,
     title and interest of the Parent in and to such Receivable sold or
     contributed thereunder;

               (x)     such Receivable is entitled to be paid pursuant to the
     terms of the related Contract, has not been paid in full or been
     compromised, adjusted, extended, satisfied, subordinated, rescinded or
     modified, and is not subject to compromise, adjustment, extension,
     satisfaction, subordination, rescission or modification by the Parent;

               (xi)    the Parent has submitted to the Obligor all necessary
     documentation (including an invoice) for payment of such Receivable and has
     fulfilled all its other obligations in respect thereof;

               (xii)   any stated term of such Receivable is not greater than 60
     months;

               (xiii)  such Receivable is an "account" or "chattel paper" within
     the meaning of the UCC of the jurisdiction where the Parent's chief
     executive office is located;

               (xiv)   neither such Receivable nor the related Contract
     contravenes in any material respect any laws, rules or regulations
     applicable thereto (including, without limitations, laws, rules and
     regulations relating to usury, consumer protection, truth in lending, fair
     credit billing, fair credit reporting, equal credit opportunity, fair debt
     collection practices and privacy) and no party to such related Contract is
     in violation of any such law, rule or regulation in any material respect;

               (xv)    such Receivable does not arise from a transaction for
     which any additional performance by Borrower or acceptance or other act of
     the Obligor remains to be performed as a condition to payments on such
     Receivable;

               (xvi)   there are no proceedings or investigations pending or
     threatened before any Governmental Authority (A) asserting the invalidity
     of such Receivable or such Contract, (B) asserting the bankruptcy or
     insolvency of the related Obligor, (C) seeking the payment of such
     Receivable or payment and performance of such Contract, or (D) seeking any
     determination or ruling that might materially and adversely affect the
     validity or enforceability of such Receivable or such Contract;

               (xvii)  as of the applicable date of transfer thereunder, no
     Obligor on such Receivable is bankrupt, is insolvent, is unable to make
     payment of its obligations when due, is the debtor in a voluntary or
     involuntary bankruptcy proceeding, or is the subject of a comparable
     receivership or insolvency proceeding, other than Obligors under the
     protection of a bankruptcy court or receivership which has approved payment
     by any such Obligor of such Receivable; and

               (xviii) the Parent has no knowledge of any fact (including any
     defaults by the Obligor on any other accounts) which should have led it to
     expect at the time of transfer of such Receivable that any Scheduled
     Payment of such Receivable would not be paid in full when due or to expect
     any other material adverse effect on (A) the performance by the Parent or
     the Borrower of its obligations under the Basic Documents, (B) the validity
     or enforceability of any of the Basic Documents to which it is a party, (C)
     the Transferred Receivables or the Contracts or the interests of the
     Borrower or Lender therein or (D) the federal income tax attributes of the
     contribution, sale or pledge of the Transferred Receivables; and

               (xix)   the Military Assistance Command or, if applicable, each
     financial institution making payments on behalf of any Allotment Obligor
     has been directed, and is required to, remit all payments with respect to
     the Transferred Receivables for deposit in the lockbox account maintained
     by the Servicer for receipt of such funds;

The Borrower hereby certifies that (A) the benefits of such representations and
warranties of the Parent have been assigned to the Lenders and the Collateral
Agent; (B) the rights of the Borrower under the Receivables Transfer 

                                      -41-
<PAGE>
 
Agreement to require a capital contribution or payment of a Rejected Amount from
its Parent may be enforced by the Lenders and the Collateral Agent; and (C) the
Receivables Transfer Agreement provides that the representations, warranties and
covenants described in Sections 4.01, 4.02 and 4.03 shall survive the sale of
the Transferred Receivables and the termination of the Receivables Transfer
Agreement and this Agreement.

          Section 4.03.  Representations and Warranties of the Servicer.  The
                         ----------------------------------------------         
Servicer represents and warrants to the Lenders, the Deal Agent and the
Collateral Agent as follows as of the date hereof:

          (a)  The Servicer is a corporation duty organized, validly existing
and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and is
duly qualified to do business, and is in good standing, in every jurisdiction in
which the nature of its business requires it to be so qualified.

          (b)  The Servicer has the power and authority to execute and deliver
this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby.

          (c)  The execution, delivery and performance by the Servicer of each
Basic Document to which it is a party and all other agreements, instruments and
documents which may be delivered by it pursuant hereto and thereto and the
transactions contemplated hereby and thereby (i) have been duly authorized by
all necessary corporate or other action on the part of the Servicer, (ii) do not
contravene or cause the Servicer to be in default under (A) its charter or by-
laws, (B) any contractual restriction with respect to any Debt of the Servicer
or contained in any indenture, loan or credit agreement, lease, mortgage,
security agreement, bond, note or other agreement or instrument binding on or
affecting it or its property, or (C) any law, rule, regulation, order, writ,
judgment, award, injunction or decree binding on or affecting it or its
property, and (iii) do not result in or require the creation of any Adverse
Claim upon or with respect to any of its properties.

          (d)  Each Basic Document to which it is a party has been duly executed
and delivered by the Servicer.

          (e)  No consent of, notice to, filing with or permits, qualifications
or other action by any Governmental Authority or any other party is required for
the due execution, delivery and performance by the Servicer of any Basic
Document to which it is a party or any other agreement, document or instrument
to be delivered hereunder other than any consents, notices, permits,
qualifications, filings or other actions which have been obtained or made and
complete copies of which have been provided to the Deal Agent and the Collateral
Agent.

          (f)  Each Basic Document to which it is a party is the legal, valid
and binding obligation of the Servicer enforceable against the Servicer in
accordance with its terms subject to any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect
relating to or affecting the enforceability of creditors' rights generally and
general equitable principles, whether applied in a proceeding at law or in
equity.

          (g)  There is no pending or threatened, nor any reasonable basis for
any, action, suit, investigation or proceeding of a material nature against or
affecting the Servicer, its officers or directors, or the property of the
Servicer, in any court or tribunal, before any arbitrator of any kind or before
or by any Governmental Authority (i) asserting the invalidity of any Basic
Document or any document to be delivered by the Servicer hereunder or
thereunder, or (ii) seeking any determination or ruling that might materially
and adversely affect (A) the performance by the Servicer of its obligations
under any Basic Document, or (B) the validity or enforceability of any Basic
Document or any document to be delivered by the Servicer hereunder or
thereunder.

          (h)  No injunction, writ, restraining order or other order of any
material nature adverse to the Servicer or the conduct of its business or which
is inconsistent with the due consummation of the transactions contemplated by
the Basic Documents has been issued by a Governmental Authority or, to the
knowledge of the Servicer, has been sought by any other Person.

                                      -42-
<PAGE>
 
          (i)  The Servicer has filed all tax returns (including, without
limitation, foreign, federal, state, local and otherwise) required to be filed
by it and has paid or has made adequate provision for the payment of all taxes,
fees, assessments and other governmental charges due from the Servicer, no tax
lien or other similar Adverse Claim has been filed, and no claim has been filed,
and no claim is being asserted, with respect to any such tax, fee, assessment or
other governmental charge. Any taxes, fees and other governmental charges
payable by the Servicer in connection with the transactions contemplated by the
Basic Documents and the execution and delivery of the Basic Documents have been
paid or shall have been paid at or prior to the earlier of the Effective Date
and the date the Policy is issued as specified therein.

          (j)  The Servicer is not required to be registered as an "investment
company" under the Investment Company Act.

          (k)  Each of the representations and warranties of the Servicer
contained in the Basic Documents is true and correct in all material respects
and the Servicer hereby makes each such representation and warranty contained in
the Basic Documents to, and for the benefit of, the Lenders, the Deal Agent and
the Collateral Agent.

          (l)  The Servicer is in compliance with ERISA and has not incurred and
does not expect to incur any liabilities (except for premium payments arising in
the ordinary course of business) to the PBGC (or any successor thereof) under
ERISA.

          (m)  There has been no material adverse change in the condition
(financial or otherwise), business, operations, results of operations or
properties of the Servicer since the Balance Sheet Date.

                                   ARTICLE V

                       GENERAL COVENANTS OF THE BORROWER

          Section 5.01.  Affirmative Covenants of the Borrower.    The Borrower
                         -------------------------------------                 
shall, unless the Deal Agent shall otherwise consent in writing:

          (a)  perform each of its obligations under the Basic Documents and
comply in all respects with all of its obligations under the Basic Documents and
comply with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders with respect to
the Basic Documents, to its business and properties and all Transferred
Receivables, related Contracts and Collections with respect thereto;

          (b)  preserve and maintain its corporate existence, rights, franchises
and privileges in the jurisdiction of its incorporation and shall conduct its
business in accordance with the terms of its certificate of incorporation and
bylaws;

          (c)  engage exclusively in the activities contemplated by the Basic
Documents;

          (d)  continue to operate its business in the manner set forth in
Sections 4.01 (d) and (e);

          (e)  cause to be delivered to Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent on
or before 90 days after the end of each year,(i) an Officer's Certificate of the
Borrower, dated the date of such delivery, bringing down to such date the
matters set forth in the Officer's Certificate in the form of Exhibit E
delivered pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(iv), and (ii) an Officer's Certificate of
the Servicer, dated the date of such delivery, bringing down to such date the
matters set forth in the Officer's Certificate in the form of Exhibit F
delivered pursuant to Section 3.01(d)(iv);

                                      -43-
<PAGE>
 
          (f)  deposit all Collections it may receive (i) in respect of
Transferred Receivables into the Lockbox Account within one Business Day of
receipt and (ii) in respect of Receivables transferred or sold to a third party
in connection with any securitization into the Collection Account within two
Business Days of receipt;

          (g)  use the proceeds of the Advances made hereunder solely for (i)
the purchase of Receivables from the Parent, (ii) payment of dividends to its
shareholder, and (iii) payment of administrative fees or Servicing Fees or
expenses to the Parent or routine administrative expenses;

          (h)  have or maintain a positive Consolidated Net Worth Percentage;

          (i)  cooperate fully with all requests of the Deal Agent and the
Collateral Agent regarding the information any documents necessary or desirable
to allow each of the Lenders, the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent to carry
out its responsibilities hereunder;

          (j)  permit the Lender, the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent to
make or cause to be made (and, after the occurrence of and during the
continuance of a Termination Event, at the Borrower's expense) inspections and
audits of any books, records and papers of the Borrower and the Servicer and to
make extracts therefrom and copies thereof, or to make inspections and
examinations of any properties and facilities of the Borrower and the Servicer,
on reasonable notice, at all such reasonable times and as often as required in
order to assure that the Borrower is and will be in compliance with its
obligations under the Basic Documents or to evaluate the Lenders' investment in
the then outstanding Notes;

          (k)  pay, perform and discharge all of its obligations and
liabilities, including, without limitation, all taxes, assessments and
governmental charges upon its income and properties when due, unless and to the
extent only that such obligations, liabilities, taxes, assessments and
governmental charges shall be contested in good faith and by appropriate
proceedings and that, to the extent required by GAAP, proper and adequate book
reserves relating thereto are established by the Borrower and then only to the
extent that a bond is filed in cases where the filing of a bond is necessary to
avoid the creation of an Adverse Claim against any of its properties;

          (l)  upon request of the Collateral Agent or the Deal Agent, mark all
of its Records to show the interests of the Lenders and Collateral Agent;

          (m)  promptly notify the Deal Agent in writing of any litigation,
legal proceeding or dispute, whether or not in the ordinary course of business,
adversely affecting the Borrower, whether or not fully covered by insurance, and
regardless of the subject matter thereof; and

          Section 5.02.  Reporting Requirements of the Borrower. The Borrower
                         --------------------------------------                 
shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Deal Agent and the Collateral
Agent:

          (a)  (i) before 5:00 p.m. Eastern time on the date of each Requested
Advance, a Borrowing Base Certificate; and (ii) monthly, as soon as available,
and in any event, not later than the Report Date, a Monthly Report in the form
of Exhibit G;

          (b)  as soon as available and in any event within 90 days (or the next
succeeding Business Day if the last day of such period is not a Business Day)
after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of the annual 10-K report and audited
consolidated financial statements for such year for the Parent and its
consolidated Subsidiaries, certified, in a manner acceptable to the Deal Agent
and the Collateral Agent, by independent public accountants acceptable to the
Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent and each other report or statement sent to
shareholders or publicly filed by the Parent or the Borrower;

          (c)  as soon as available and in any event within 45 days (or next
succeeding Business Day if the last day of such period is not a Business Day)
after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the
Parent, a consolidated balance sheet of the Parent and its consolidated
Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and including the prior comparable
period, and consolidated statements of income and retained 

                                      -44-
<PAGE>
 
earnings, and of cash flow, of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries for
such quarter and for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal
year and ending with the end of such quarter, certified by the chief financial
officer or chief accounting officer of the Parent identifying such documents as
being the documents described in this paragraph (c) and stating the information
set forth therein fairly presents the financial condition of the Parent and its
consolidated Subsidiaries as of and for the periods then ended, subject to year-
end adjustments consisting only of normal, recurring accruals and confirming
that the Parent is in compliance with all financial covenants in this Agreement;

          (d)  as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the
occurrence of a Termination Event (including without limitation a material
adverse change in the financial condition of the Borrower as determined by the
Deal Agent and notified in writing to the Borrower) or a Potential Termination
Event, the statement of the chief executive officer of the Borrower setting
forth complete details of such Termination Event or Potential Termination Event
and the action which the Borrower has taken, is taking and proposes to take with
respect thereto;

          (e)  as soon as available and in any event within 90 days after the
end of each fiscal year, a letter from a firm of independent public accountants
acceptable to the Deal Agent (and upon which the Deal Agent and the Collateral
Agent may rely) to the effect that such firm has examined the Monthly Reports
and issued its report therefor and that such examination (1) was made in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included
such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as such
firm consisted necessary in the circumstances; (2) included tests relating to
auto loans serviced for others in accordance with the requirements of the
Uniform Single Audit Program for Mortgage Bankers (the "Program"), to the extent
                                                        -------                 
the procedures in the Program are applicable to the servicing obligations set
forth in this Agreement; (3) included an examination of the delinquency and loss
statistics relating to the Borrower's portfolio of automobile and light truck
installment sales contracts; and (4) except as described in the report,
disclosed no exceptions or errors in the records relating to automobile and
light truck loans serviced for others that, in the firm's opinion, paragraph
four of the Program requires such firm to report.  The accountant's report shall
further state that (1) a review in accordance with agreed upon procedures was
made of three randomly selected Borrower certificates; (2) except as disclosed
in the report, no exceptions or errors in the Borrower certificates were found;
(3) the delinquency and loss information, relating to the Receivables contained
in the Borrower certificates were found to be accurate and (4) except for (i)
such exceptions as such firm shall believe to be immaterial, and (ii) such other
exceptions as shall be set forth in such statement; such firm has examined the
Monthly Reports delivered during the previous calendar year (including the
Borrowing Base Certificates attached thereto) and such Records relating to the
Transferred Receivables as such firm deems necessary as a basis for the report
contemplated by this Section 5.02(e);

          (f)  not later than each Report Date, such reports determined by the
Deal Agent to be necessary for the Parent to track and monitor the Contracts,
Collections, Financed Vehicles and insurance, which reports shall include,
without limitation, the reports set out in Exhibit H accompanied by such other
information and certifications as set out in Exhibit H; and

          (g)  promptly, from time to time, such other information, documents,
records or reports respecting the Transferred Receivables or the Contracts or
the condition or operations, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower, or the
Parent or any of its Subsidiaries, as the Deal Agent or the Collateral Agent
may, from time to time, reasonably request.

          Section 5.03.  Negative Covenants of the Borrower. The Borrower shall
                         ----------------------------------                 
not, without the written consent of the Required Investors, the Deal Agent and
the Collateral Agent:

          (a)  sell, assign (by operation of law or otherwise) or otherwise
dispose of, or create or suffer to exist or consent to, cause or permit in the
future (upon the happening of a contingency or otherwise) the creation,
incurrence or existence of, any Adverse Claim or Restriction on Transferability
(and any such purported disposition shall be null and void), upon or with
respect to any Transferred Receivable or related Contract with respect thereto,
or upon or with respect to the Lockbox Account, the Lockboxes, the Collection
Account, the 

                                      -45-
<PAGE>
 
Successor Servicer Reserve Account or any other account to which any Collections
of any Receivable are deposited or any other Collateral or any of the Borrower's
property, or assign any right to receive income, in respect thereof;

          (b)  extend, amend, forgive, discharge, compromise, waive, cancel or
otherwise modify the terms of the any Basic Document, the Credit and Collection
Policies or of any Transferred Receivable, or amend, modify or waive any term or
condition of any Contract related thereto;

          (c)  make any change in its instructions (i) to Obligors regarding
payments to the Lockbox Account or Lockboxes (other than to a new Lockbox
Account pursuant to Section 6.01(a)(iii)) or (ii) with respect to Allotment
Obligors regarding payments to be made to the Borrower or to be deposited to the
lockbox account maintained by the Servicer for the receipt of such funds;

          (d)  amend its articles or certificate of incorporation, its by-laws
or any Basic Document;

          (e)  except as otherwise provided herein or in the Receivables
Transfer Agreement, merge with or into, consolidate with or into, convey,
transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets
(whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to, or acquire all or substantially
all of the assets or capital stock or other ownership interest of, any Person
(whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions), or own any
Subsidiary;

          (f)  prepare any financial statements which shall account for the
transactions contemplated by the Receivables Transfer Agreement in any manner
other than as a purchase or absolute assignment of the Transferred Receivables
to the Borrower from the Parent, or in any other respect account for or treat
the transactions contemplated hereby (including but not limited to, for
accounting, tax and reporting purposes) in any manner other than as a purchase
or absolute assignment of the Transferred Receivables to the Borrower from the
Parent;

          (g)  at any time (i) advance credit to any Person, or (ii) declare any
dividends, or return any capital, if after giving effect to such distribution,
there would be a Borrowing Excess;

          (h)  create, incur, permit to exist or have outstanding any Debt,
except:

               (i)    Debt of the Borrower to the Lenders, any Affected Party or
     any Indemnified Party under this Agreement and the Notes;

               (ii)   taxes, assessments and governmental charges, non-interest
     bearing accounts payable and accrued liabilities, in any case not more than
     90 days past due from the original due date thereof, and non-interest
     bearing deferred liabilities other than for borrowed money (e.g., deferred
     taxes), in each case incurred and continuing in the ordinary course of
     business; and

               (iii)  the endorsement of negotiable instruments for deposit or
     collection in the ordinary course of business;

          (i)  issue any additional shares or any right or option to acquire any
shares, or any security convertible into any shares, of the capital stock of the
Borrower;

          (j)  except as otherwise provided herein or in the Receivables
Transfer Agreement, enter into, or be a party to, any transaction with any
Person, other than pursuant to this Agreement or the Receivables Transfer
Agreement; or

          (k)  make or suffer to exist any purchases of assets or investments in
any Person, including, without limitation, any shareholder, director, officer or
employee of the Borrower or any of the Parent's other Subsidiaries, except
Transferred Receivables and Permitted Investments.

                                      -46-
<PAGE>
 
          Section 5.04.  Borrower Hedging Instruments.
                         ---------------------------- 

          (a)  If, as of any date of determination greater than six (6) months
after the Effective Date of this Agreement, the Parent or its Affiliates have
not entered into a Securitization within the past six (6) months, the Borrower
shall obtain a Hedging Instrument in form and substance satisfactory to the Deal
Agent with a Hedging Counterparty with an aggregate notional amount equal to 60%
or more of the aggregate Contract Principal Balance of Transferred Receivables;
provided, however, if the Termination Event described Section 9.01(r) hereof has
- --------  -------                                                               
previously occurred, such aggregate notional amount shall equal 80% of the
aggregate Contract Principal Balance of Transferred Receivables.

          (b)  All Hedging Instruments shall be obligations of VFCC, provided,
                                                                     -------- 
that in the event of a purchase under the Liquidity Purchase Agreement, a pro-
rata interest of the related obligations of VFCC shall be assumed (and a
corresponding pro-rata interest of VFCC's rights shall be taken) by the related
Investor on and after the date of such purchase.

          (c)  Each Hedging Instrument that provides for any payment obligation
of the VFCC must (i) be nonrecourse to VFCC, (ii) contain a non-petition
covenant provision in the form of Section 14.05 hereof, (iii) contain a
provision limiting any payments due under the Hedging Instrument solely to funds
available therefor pursuant to Article VI hereof, and (iv) provide for the
termination or assumption of the Hedging Instrument upon the transfer of the
Receivables from VFCC.

                                  ARTICLE VI

                      COLLECTIONS AND DISBURSEMENTS; FEES

                   Section 6.01.  Establishment of Accounts.
                                  ------------------------- 

          (a)  Lockbox Account.
               --------------- 

               (i)    The Deal Agent and Servicer have jointly established and
     shall maintain in the name of the Borrower in trust for the Collateral
     Agent a segregated account with a Lockbox Account Bank and controlled by
     the Collateral Agent titled "CPS Warehouse Corp. in trust for First Union
                                  --------------------------------------------
     National Bank, secured party--Lockbox Account".  The Borrower agrees that
     ---------------------------------------------                            
     the Collateral Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control of the
     Lockbox Account and all monies, instruments and other property from time to
     time in the Lockbox Account.

               (ii)   The Borrower and the Servicer and the Parent, as the case
     may be, shall instruct all Obligors (other than Allotment Obligors) to make
     or wire all payments on the Receivables to the Lockbox Account or Lockbox,
     as the case may be, and all Collections on Receivables, will, pending
     remittance to the Collection Account, be held for the benefit of the
     Collateral Agent and immediately after such proceeds have cleared and
     become available in accordance with the policies of the Lockbox Account
     Bank, shall be deposited directly into the Collection Account.

               (iii)  in the event that the Lockbox Agreement terminates for any
     reason or the Lockbox Account Bank fails to comply with its obligations
     under the Lockbox Agreement for any reason, then the Borrower shall
     promptly notify all Obligors to make all future payments to a new Lockbox
     Account established in accordance with the next succeeding sentence with
     the Lockbox Account Bank or another depositary institution.  The Borrower
     shall not close such existing Lockbox Account unless it shall have (1)
     received the prior written consent of the Deal Agent and the Collateral
     Agent, (2) established a new account with the Lockbox Account Bank or with
     a new depositary institution satisfactory to the Deal Agent and the
     Collateral Agent, (3) entered into an agreement covering such new account
     with the Lockbox Account Bank or with such new depositary institution
     substantially in the form of such Lockbox Agreement which is satisfactory
     in all respects to the Deal Agent and the Collateral 

                                      -47-
<PAGE>
 
     Agent (whereupon, for all purposes of the Basic Documents, such new account
     shall become such Lockbox Account, such new agreement shall become such
     Lockbox Agreement and any new depositary institution shall become the
     Lockbox Account Bank), and (4) taken all such action as the Collateral
     Agent shall require to grant and perfect a first priority security interest
     in such new Lockbox Account to the Collateral Agent under Section 8.01 of
     this Agreement.

          (b)  Collection Account.  (i) The Deal Agent, as agent for the
               ------------------                                       
Collateral Agent, has established and shall maintain a segregated deposit
account with the Depositary titled "Variable Funding Capital Corporation--
                                    -------------------------------------
Collection Account (CPS Warehouse Corp.)". The Borrower agrees that the Deal
- ----------------------------------------                                    
Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control of the Collection Account and
all monies, instruments and other property from time to time in the Collection
Account.

               (ii)   Pursuant to Section 6.02, the Collateral Agent shall
     instruct the Lockbox Account Bank to transfer, on each Business Day in same
     day funds, all available funds deposited in the Lockbox Account before such
     Business Day to the Collection Account. In addition to the amount deposited
     into the Lockbox Account, the Borrower and Servicer will deposit or cause
     to be deposited in the Collection Account all cash, checks, money orders,
     wire transfers or moneygrams or other Proceeds received in respect of
     Transferred Receivables immediately upon the receipt thereof in the
     original form received (if other than cash). Moreover, the Servicer shall,
     within one Business Day of receipt, transfer all Collections on behalf of
     Allotment Obligors, in respect of Transferred Receivables directly to the
     Collection Account. Until so deposited, all such Proceeds shall be held in
     trust for the Collateral Agent by the Borrower or Servicer, as the case may
     be. The Lenders, the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent may deposit into
     the Collection Account from time to time all monies, instruments and other
     property received by any of them as Proceeds of the Transferred
     Receivables. On each Settlement Date before the Commitment Termination
     Date, so long as no Termination Event shall have occurred and be
     continuing, the Deal Agent shall (or shall permit the Servicer to) instruct
     and cause the Depositary to release funds on deposit in the Collection
     Account in the order of priority set forth in Section 6.04. On each
     Business Day on and after the Commitment Termination Date and on each
     Business Day during any period while a Termination Event has occurred and
     is continuing, the Collateral Agent may and the Deal Agent shall apply all
     amounts when received in the Collection Account in the order of priority
     set forth in Section 6.05.

               (iii)  In the event that the Depositary wishes to resign as
     depositary of the Collection Account for any reason or fails to carry out
     the instructions of the Deal Agent or the Collateral Agent for any reason,
     then VFCC or the Deal Agent shall promptly notify all Secured Parties.  The
     Deal Agent shall not close the Collection Account unless it shall have (A)
     received the prior written consent of the Deal Agent and the Collateral
     Agent, (B) established a new account with the Depositary or with a new
     depositary institution satisfactory to the Deal Agent and the Collateral
     Agent, (C) entered into an agreement covering such new account with such
     new depositary institution satisfactory in all respects to the Deal Agent
     and the Collateral Agent (whereupon such new account shall become the
     Collection Account for all purposes of the Basic Documents), and (D) taken
     all such action as the Collateral Agent shall require to grant and perfect
     a first priority security interest in such new Collection Account to the
     Collateral Agent under this Agreement.

          (c)  Successor Servicer Reserve Account.  If at any time the financial
               ----------------------------------                               
covenants in Section 7.06 are not met, the Borrower, for the benefit of the
Collateral Agent, shall cause to be established and maintained a deposit account
with the Depositary (the "Successor Servicer Reserve Account") which shall be
                          ----------------------------------                 
identified as the "Successor Servicer Reserve Account in trust for First Union
                   -----------------------------------------------------------
National Bank, as Collateral Agent" and shall bear a designation clearly
- ----------------------------------                                      
indicating that the funds deposited therein are held for the benefit of the
Lenders.

                                      -48-
<PAGE>
 
          (d)  Application of Successor Servicer Reserve Account.
               ------------------------------------------------- 

               (i)    If the fees and expenses payable in connection with
     setting up the Successor Servicer remain unpaid on any Settlement Date,
     such unpaid amount shall be withdrawn from the Successor Servicer Reserve
     Account on such Settlement Date and deposited into the Collection Account
     for application under Section 6.04(a)(ii) and Section 6.05(b).

               (ii)   If, after giving effect to the allocations of,
     distributions from, and deposits in, the Successor Servicer Reserve Account
     on any Settlement Date, the amount in the Successor Servicer Reserve
     Account is greater than the Required Reserve Account Amount for such
     Settlement Date, the Deal Agent may withdraw from the Successor Servicer
     Reserve Account such excess amount and deposit such amounts into the
     Collection Account. On the first Business Day after the Commitment
     Termination Date, following the payment in full of all amounts owing to the
     Lenders, the Deal Agent and the Liquidity Agent, any funds remaining on
     deposit in the Successor Servicer Reserve Account shall be paid to the
     Borrower.

          Section 6.02.  Funding of Collection Account.
                         ----------------------------- 

          (a)  No later than 11:30 a.m. Pacific time on each Business Day:

               (i)    The Borrower shall instruct each Lockbox Account Bank to
     transfer all Collections deposited in the Lockbox Account prior to such
     Business Day to the Collection Account immediately after such funds have
     cleared and become available in accordance with the policies of the Lockbox
     Account Bank;

               (ii)   the Servicer shall transfer all Collections received by it
     or on its behalf with respect to Transferred Receivables prior to such
     Business Day to the Collection Account;

               (iii)  if, on the prior Business Day, the Deal Agent has notified
     the Borrower of any Borrowing Excess pursuant to Section 6.03, the Borrower
     shall deposit cash in the amount of such Borrowing Excess in the Collection
     Account;

               (iv)   if, pursuant to a Borrower Notice, the Borrower has
     requested to make an Optional Prepayment of Advances on such Business Day,
     the Borrower shall deposit cash into the Collection Account in an amount
     equal to such Optional Repayment Amount;

               (v)    if on such Business Day the Borrower is required to make
     other payments under this Agreement not previously retained out of
     Collections (including Indemnified Amounts not previously paid), the
     Borrower shall deposit an amount equal to such payments in the Collection
     Account;

               (vi)   if, on the prior Business Day, the Parent made a capital
     contribution or payment of a Rejected Amount, repurchased Ineligible
     Receivables, or substituted Ineligible Receivables with Eligible
     Receivables pursuant to the Receivables Transfer Agreement, the Borrower
     shall deposit cash in the amount received from the Parent for such
     repurchase in the Collection Account;

               (vii)  the Servicer shall deposit into the Collection Account the
     Gross Contract Balance of any Transferred Receivable it elects to pay
     pursuant to Section 7.03; and

               (viii) pursuant to Section 8.07, the Borrower shall deposit, or
     shall cause to be deposited, all proceeds in connection with any
     securitization with a third party trustee, conduit or similar entity in the
     Collection Account.

                                      -49-
<PAGE>
 
          (b)  If, two Business Days prior to any Settlement Date, the Deal
Agent notifies the Borrower of any Collection Account Deficiency pursuant to
Section 6.04(b), the Borrower shall deposit cash in the amount of such
deficiency into the Collection Account no later than 11:30 a.m. on such
Settlement Date.

          Section 6.03.  Borrowing Excess--Revolving Period.
                         --------------------------- ------ 

          If on any Business Day, the Deal Agent shall notify the Borrower of
any Borrowing Excess, the Borrower shall deposit the amount of such Borrowing
Excess in the Collection Account by 11:30 a.m. on the following Business Day.

          Section 6.04.  Disbursements From the Collection Account-Settlement
                         ----------------------------------------------------
Date Procedures-Revolving Period
- ---- ---------------------------

          (a)  No later than 11:00 a.m. on each Settlement Date during the
Revolving Period, the amounts held in the Collection Account shall be disbursed
by the Servicer acting under a revocable power of attorney from the Deal Agent,
or otherwise the Deal Agent in the following priority:

               (i)    to each Hedging Counterparty, if there are any amounts
     owing to such Hedging Counterparty under the related Hedging Instruments;

               (ii)   if an Event of Servicer Termination has occurred and a
     Successor Servicer has been appointed, to the Successor Servicer in an
     amount equal to its accrued and unpaid Servicing Fees and any other amounts
     owed to the Successor Servicer (including unpaid costs associated with the
     transfer of servicing to such Successor Servicer);

               (iii)  to the Deal Agent for distribution to the Lenders (or, if
     applicable, any Indemnified Party), the following amounts in the following
     priority:

                      (A) an amount equal to the accrued and unpaid Daily Yield
               to the end of the preceding Settlement Period;

                      (B) all Facility Fees accrued and unpaid to the end of the
               preceding Settlement Period;

                      (C) all Additional Amounts incurred and payable to any
               Affected Party through the end of the preceding Settlement
               Period;

                      (D) all other amounts accrued and payable under this
               Agreement other than principal payments on Advances (including
               Indemnified Amounts incurred and payable to any Indemnified
               Party) through the end of the preceding Settlement Period;

                      (E) if there is a Borrowing Excess, an amount equal to
               such excess, in reduction of Advances Outstanding; and

                      (F) if a Successor Servicer Reserve Account is required to
               be established pursuant to Section 7.06, to the Successor
               Servicer Reserve Account until the Required Reserve Account
               Amount is met;

               (iv)   to the Servicer on behalf of the Borrower, in an amount
     equal to its accrued and unpaid Servicing Fee to the end of the preceding
     Settlement Period;

               (v)    retained in the Collection Account, the Accrued Monthly
     Yield and Accrued Servicing Fee as of that date;

                                      -50-
<PAGE>
 
               (vi)   to the extent that the balance in the Collection Account
     exceeds the amount to be retained or disbursed under Sections 6.04(a)(v),
     that excess to an account previously designated by the Borrower.

          (b)  Two Business Days prior to each Settlement Date, the Deal Agent
shall determine and notify the Borrower of any Collection Account Deficiency for
the preceding Settlement Period, and the Borrower shall deposit cash in the
amount of such Collection Account Deficiency to the Collection Account pursuant
to Section 6.02(b).

          Section 6.05.  Liquidation Settlement Procedures.  On each Business
                         ---------------------------------                     
Day on and after the Commitment Termination Date, the Deal Agent shall transfer
all amounts from the Collection Account in the following priority:

          (a)  other than from amounts on deposit in the Collection Account
representing payments under any Hedging Instrument, to the related Hedging
Counterparty, if there are any amounts owing to such Hedging Counterparty under
the related Hedging Instrument, such amounts;

          (b)  if an Event of Servicer Termination has occurred and a Successor
Servicer has been appointed, to the Successor Servicer in an amount equal to its
accrued and unpaid Servicing Fees and any other amounts owed to the Successor
Servicer (including unpaid costs associated with the transfer of servicing to
such Successor Servicer);

          (c)  to the Deal Agent for distribution to the Lenders, in an amount
equal to:

               (i)    on any such Business Day on which there are Advances
     Outstanding, accrued and unpaid Daily Yield and Daily Facility Fees through
     and including such date;

               (ii)   on any such Business Day on which there are Advances
     Outstanding, the principal of all Advances Outstanding;

          (d)  to the Deal Agent for distribution to the Lenders or Indemnified
Parties, as the case may be:

               (i)    all Additional Amounts Incurred and payable to any
     Affected Party; and

               (ii)   all Indemnified Amounts incurred and payable to any
     Indemnified Party.

          (e)  if a Successor Servicer Reserve Account is required to be
established pursuant to Section 7.06, to the Successor Servicer Reserve Account
until the Required Reserve Account Amount is met;

          (f)  if an Event of Servicer Termination has not occurred, to the
Servicer in an amount equal to its accrued and unpaid Servicing Fee; and

          (g)  to an account previously designated by the Borrower, the balance,
if any.

          Section 6.06.  Notification by Servicer.  The Servicer shall notify
                         ------------------------                              
the Borrower, the Deal Agent and the Liquidity Agent of the determinations and
disbursements made pursuant to Sections 6.04, 6.05 and 6.08.

          Section 6.07.  Investment of Accounts.  During the Revolving Period,
                          ---------------------                                 
to the extent there are uninvested amounts deposited in the Collection Account
or the Successor Servicer Reserve Account, the Deal Agent shall invest all such
amounts in Permitted Investments selected by the Deal Agent that mature no later
than the immediately succeeding Business Day the immediately succeeding
Settlement Date.  Any earnings thereon 

                                      -51-
<PAGE>
 
shall be deposited into the related account on or after the Commitment
Termination Date, any investment of such amounts shall be solely at the
discretion of the Deal Agent subject to the restrictions described above.

          Section 6.08.  Termination Procedure.
                         ---------------------   

          (a) On the earlier of (i) the first Business Day after the Commitment
Termination Date on which current Advances Outstanding have been reduced to zero
or (ii) the Final Maturity Date, if the payments required to be made pursuant to
Sections 6.05(a) and (b) have not been made in full, the Borrower shall
immediately deposit into the Collection Account an amount sufficient to make
such payments in full.

          (b) On the first Business Day after the Commitment Termination Date on
which the payments required pursuant to Subsections 6.05(a) and (b) and (c) have
been made in full, all amounts held in the Collection Account or the Successor
Servicer Reserve Account, if any, shall be disbursed to the Borrower and all
security interests of the Lender and the Collateral Agent in all Transferred
Receivables owned by the Borrower shall be released by the Lender and the
Collateral Agent.  Such disbursement shall constitute the final payment to which
the Borrower is entitled pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.

                                  ARTICLE VII

                          APPOINTMENT OF THE SERVICER

          Section 7.01.  Appointment of the Servicer.  The Borrower hereby
                         ---------------------------                        
appoints the Servicer as its agent to service the Transferred Receivables and
enforce its respective rights and interests in and under each Transferred
Receivable and each related Contract and to serve in such capacity until the
termination of its responsibilities pursuant to Sections 7.10, 9.02 or 11.01.
The Servicer hereby agrees to perform the duties and obligations with respect
thereto set forth herein.  The Servicer may, with the prior consent of the
Borrower, the Lender, the Deal Agent, and the Collateral Agent subcontract with
a Sub-Servicer for collection, servicing or administration of the Transferred
Receivables, provided, that (a) the Servicer shall remain liable for the
             --------                                                   
performance of the duties and obligations of the Sub-Servicer pursuant to the
terms hereof, and (b) any Sub-Servicing Agreement that may be entered into and
any other transactions or services relating to the Transferred Receivables
involving a Sub-Servicer shall be deemed to be between the Sub-Servicer and the
Servicer alone and the Borrower, the Lender, Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent
shall not be deemed parties thereto and shall have no obligations, duties or
liabilities with respect to the Sub-Servicer.

          Section 7.02.  Duties and Responsibilities of the Servicer.
                         -------------------------------------------   

          (a) The Servicer shall conduct the servicing, administration and
collection of the Transferred Receivables and shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such actions as may be necessary or advisable to service, administer and
collect Transferred Receivable from firms to time.

          (b) The duties of the Servicer shall include, without limitation:

               (i)    preparing and submitting of claims to, and post-billing
     liaison with, Obligors on Transferred Receivables;

               (ii)   arranging for the direct remittance of all Collections
     with respect to each Allotment Obligor to the Collection Account;

               (iii)  using its best efforts, consistent with its customary
     servicing procedures, to repossess or otherwise convert the ownership of
     the Financed Vehicle securing any Receivable as to which the Servicer shall
     have determined eventual payment in full is unlikely.  The Servicer shall
     follow such customary and usual practices and procedures as it shall become
     necessary or advisable in its servicing of automotive receivables, which
     may include reasonable efforts to realize upon any recourse to 

                                      -52-
<PAGE>
 
     Vehicle Dealers and selling the Financed Vehicle at public or private sale.
     The foregoing shall be subject to the provision that, in any case in which
     the Financed Vehicle shall have suffered damage, the Servicer shall not
     expend funds in connection with the repair or the repossession of such
     Financed Vehicle unless it shall determine in its discretion that such
     repair and/or repossession will increase the Proceeds by an amount greater
     than the amount of such expenses;

               (iv)    maintaining all necessary Servicing Records with respect
     to the Transferred Receivables and providing such reports to the Liquidity
     Agent and the Deal Agent in respect of the servicing of the Transferred
     Receivables (including information relating to its performance under this
     Agreement) as may be required hereunder or as the Liquidity Agent or the
     Deal Agent may reasonably request;

               (v)     maintaining and implementing administrative and operating
     procedures (including, without limitation, an ability to recreate Servicing
     Records evidencing the Transferred Receivables in the event of the
     destruction of the originals thereof) and keeping and maintaining all
     documents, books, records and other information reasonably necessary or
     advisable for the collection of the Transferred Receivables (including,
     without limitation, records adequate to permit the identification of each
     new Transferred Receivable and all Collections of and adjustments to each
     existing Transferred Receivable);

               (vi)    promptly delivering to the Deal Agent or the Collateral
     Agent, from time to time, such information and Servicing Records (including
     information relating to its performance under this Agreement) as the Deal
     Agent or the Collateral Agent may from time to time reasonably request;

               (vii)   identifying each Transferred Receivable clearly and
     unambiguously in its Servicing Records to reflect that such Transferred
     Receivable is owned by the Borrower and pledged to the Collateral Agent;

               (viii)  complying in all material respects with the Credit and
     Collection Policies in regard to each Transferred Receivable and the
     related Contracts;

               (ix)    complying in all material respects with all applicable
     laws, rules, regulations and orders with respect to it, its business and
     properties and all Transferred Receivables, related Contracts and
     Collections with respect thereto;

               (x)     preserving and maintaining its corporate existence,
     rights, franchises and privileges in the jurisdiction of its incorporation,
     and qualifying and remaining qualified in good standing as a foreign
     corporation and qualifying to and remaining authorized to perform
     obligations as Servicer (including enforcement of collection of Transferred
     Receivables on behalf of the Lenders and the Collateral Agent) in each
     jurisdiction where the failure to preserve and maintain such existence,
     rights, franchises, privileges and qualification would materially adversely
     affect (A) the rights or interests of the Lenders and the Collateral Agent
     in the Transferred Receivables, (B) the collectibility of any Transferred
     Receivable, (C) the ability of the Servicer to perform its obligations
     hereunder, or (D) the ability of the Parent to perform its obligations
     under this Agreement or under the Contracts;

               (xi)    immediately notifying the Liquidity Agent and the Deal
     Agent of the occurrence of a Termination Event (including, without
     limitation, a material adverse change in the financial condition of the
     Parent) or a Potential Termination Event;

               (xii)   notifying the Liquidity Agent and the Deal Agent of any
     material action, suit, proceeding, dispute, offset deduction, defense or
     counterclaim that is or may be (1) asserted by an Obligor with respect to
     any Transferred Receivable; or (2) reasonably expected to have a material
     adverse effect on the Contracts as a whole or on the ability of the
     Servicer or the Originator to perform 

                                      -53-
<PAGE>
 
     its obligations under the Basic Documents or on the Servicer or the
     Borrower or any of their respective property;

               (xiii) arranging for the direct remittance of all Collections
     with respect to each Transferred Receivable to the Lockbox Account or
     Lockbox, as the case may be; and

               (xiv)  immediately notifying the Deal Agent and the Collateral
     Agent of (A) any proposed change in the Credit and Collection Policies or
     (B) any change in procedures in connection with the Collections with
     respect to Allotment Obligors which would permit the Servicer to cause such
     financial institutions making payments on behalf of the Allotment Obligors
     to make payments in respect of Transferred Receivables directly to the
     Collection Account.

          (c) The Lenders, the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent shall not
have any obligation or liability with respect to any Transferred Receivables or
related Contracts, nor shall any of them be obligated to perform any of the
obligations of the Servicer hereunder.

          Section 7.03.  Authorization of the Servicer.  Each of the Borrower
                         -----------------------------                         
and the Deal Agent on behalf of the Lenders hereby authorizes the Servicer
(including any successor thereto) to take any and all reasonable steps in its
name and on its behalf necessary or desirable and not inconsistent with the
pledge of the Transferred Receivables to the Lender and the Collateral Agent, in
the determination of the Servicer, to collect all amounts due under any and all
Transferred Receivables, including, without limitation, endorsing any of their
names on checks and other instruments representing Collections, executing and
delivering any and all instruments of satisfaction or cancellation, or of
partial or full release or discharge, and all other comparable instruments, with
respect to the Transferred Receivables and, after the delinquency of any
Transferred Receivable and to the extent permitted under and in compliance with
applicable law and regulations, to commence proceedings with respect to
enforcing payment of such Transferred Receivables and the related Contracts, and
adjusting, settling or compromising the account or payment thereof, to the same
extent as the Parent could have done if it had continued to own such Receivable.
The Parent, the Borrower and the Deal Agent on behalf of the Lenders shall
furnish the Servicer (and any successors thereto) with any powers of attorney
and other documents necessary or appropriate to enable the Servicer to carry out
its servicing and administrative duties hereunder, and shall cooperate with the
Servicer to the fullest extent in order to ensure the collectibility of the
Transferred Receivables.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
herein, Deal Agent on behalf of the Lenders shall have the absolute and
unlimited right to direct the Servicer (whether the Servicer is the Parent or
otherwise) to commence or settle any legal action to enforce collection of any
Transferred Receivable or to foreclose upon, repossess or take any other action
which the Collateral Agent or the Deal Agent deems necessary or advisable with
respect thereto; provided, that the Servicer may, rather than commencing such
action or taking other enforcement action, at its option elect to pay the
Borrower the Contract Principal Balance of such Transferred Receivable.  In no
event shall the Servicer be entitled to make any Lender, the Collateral Agent or
the Deal Agent a party to any litigation without such party's express prior
written consent, or to make the Borrower a party to any litigation without the
Deal Agent's consent.

          Section 7.04.  Servicing Fees.  As compensation for its servicing
                         --------------                                      
activities and as reimbursement for its expenses in connection therewith, the
Servicer shall be entitled to receive the Servicing Fees in the manner set forth
in Sections 6.04 and 6.05, payable monthly in arrears on each Settlement Date
with respect to the preceding Settlement Period.  The Servicer shall be required
to pay for all expenses incurred by the Servicer in connection with its
activities hereunder (including any payments to accountants, counsel or any
other Person) and shall not be entitled to any payment therefor other than the
Servicing Fees.

          Section 7.05.  Negative Covenants of the Servicer.  The Servicer
                         ----------------------------------                 
shall not, without the prior written consent of the Deal Agent and the
Collateral Agent:

          (a) sell, assign (by operation of law or otherwise) or otherwise
dispose of, or create or suffer to exist any Adverse Claim upon or with respect
to (and any such purported disposition shall be null and void) any Transferred
Receivable or related Contract with respect thereto, or upon or with respect to
the 

                                      -54-
<PAGE>
 
Collection Account or any other account to which any Collections of any
Receivable are deposited, or assign any right to receive income in respect
thereof;

          (b) extend, amend or otherwise modify the terms of any Transferred
Receivable (other than adjusting, settling or compromising the account or
payment of a Transferred Receivable pursuant to Section 7.03 and except for
deferments in the ordinary course of business which are consistent with the
Credit and Collection Policies), or amend, modify or waive any term or condition
of any Contract related thereto;

          (c) make any material change in the character of its business;

          (d) merge with or into, consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer,
lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets (whether
now owned or hereafter acquired) to, or acquire all or substantially all of the
assets or capital stock or other ownership interest of, any Person (whether in
one transaction or in a series of transactions), provided, however, that the
                                                 --------  -------          
Servicer may, without the consent of the Deal Agent, invest not more than 25% of
its Net Worth to acquire all or substantially all of the assets or capital stock
or other ownership interest of another Person;

          (e) make any change to its corporate name or use any trade names,
fictitious names, assumed names or "doing business as" names;

          (f) make any change in its instructions to Allotment Obligors to make
payments to the Collection Account;

          (g) assign or otherwise dispose of any shares of the Borrower; or

          (h) agree or consent to or otherwise permit to occur any amendment,
modification, change, supplement, or rescission of the Credit and Collection
Policies in whole or in part in any manner that could have a material adverse
effect upon the Receivables or interests of the Lenders or the Deal Agent.

          Section 7.06.  Financial Covenants.  The Servicer shall have or
                         -------------------                               
maintain:

          (a) Net Worth of not less than the sum of (i) $55 million and (ii) one
half of the net income of the Servicer and its consolidated subsidiaries as set
forth in its most recent annual consolidated financial statement;

          (b) Interest Coverage Ratio equal to or greater than 1.5 to 1; and

          (c) a Debt Ratio of less than 5.0 to 1.0.

          If at any time the financial covenants set forth in this Section 7.06
are not met, in addition to, and without limiting, any other right or remedy
contained herein, the Deal Agent may require the Borrower to establish a
Successor Servicer Reserve Account pursuant to Section 6.01(c) hereof.

          Section 7.07.  Reporting  .  During the term of this Agreement, the
                         ---------                                           
Servicer shall keep or cause to be kept in reasonable detail books and records
of the account of the Servicer's assets and business, including, but not limited
to, books and records relating to the transactions contemplated in the Basic
Documents, which shall be furnished to the Deal Agent upon request.  The books
of the Servicer shall be kept on an accrual basis and the Servicer shall report
its operations for tax purposes on an accrual basis.  The fiscal year of the
Servicer shall end on March 31 of each year.  The Servicer shall furnish to the
Liquidity Agent and the Deal Agent:

          (a) as soon as available and in any event within ninety (90) days (or
the next succeeding Business Day if the last day of such period is not a
Business Day) after the and of each fiscal year of the Servicer a copy of the
consolidated financial statement of the Servicer and its consolidated
Subsidiaries as of the end of 

                                      -55-
<PAGE>
 
such year and the related consolidated statements of income and retained
earnings, and of cash flow, of the Servicer and its consolidated Subsidiaries
for such year, in each case reported on by a firm of nationally recognized
independent public accountants;

          (b) on or before the 45th day (or next succeeding Business Day if the
last day of such period is not a Business Day) after each fiscal quarter, an
Officer's Certificate stating, as to each signer thereof, that (i) a review of
the activities of the Servicer during the preceding fiscal quarter and of its
performance under this Agreement has been made under such officer's supervision,
(ii) to the best of such officer's knowledge, based on such review, the Servicer
has fulfilled all its obligations under this Agreement throughout such quarter,
or, if there has been a default in the fulfillment of any such obligation,
specifying each such default known to such officer and the nature and status
thereof; (iii) the Servicer has complied with the covenants set forth in
Sections 7.05 and 7.06 and (iv) the representations and warranties of the
Servicer in Section 4.03 are true and correct as if made on the date of such
Officer's Certificate;

          (c) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all
reports which the Servicer sends to its security holders, public filings with
any Governmental Authority and the annual report of the Servicer; and

          (d) such other periodic, special or other reports or information as
the Liquidity Agent and the Deal Agent may reasonably require.

          Section 7.08.  Annual Statement as to Compliance.  The Servicer
                         ---------------------------------                 
shall deliver to the Liquidity Agent and the Deal Agent on or before July 15 of
each year an Officer's Certificate stating, as to each signer thereof, that (a)
a review of the activities of the Servicer during the preceding fiscal year and
of its performance under this Agreement has been made under such officer's
supervision, (b) to the best of such officer's knowledge, based on such review,
the Servicer has fulfilled all its obligations under this Agreement throughout
such year or, if there has been a default in the fulfillment of any such
obligation, specifying each such default known to such officer and the nature
and status thereof, (c) the Servicer has complied with the covenants set forth
in Sections 7.05 and 7.06, and (d) the representations and warranties of the
Servicer in Section 4.03 are true and correct as if made on the date of such
Officer's Certificate.

          Section 7.09.  Annual Independent Public Accountants' Servicing and
                         ----------------------------------------------------
Compliance Report.  On or before June 15 of each year, the Servicer at its
- -----------------                                                            
expense shall cause a firm of nationally recognized independent public
accountants to furnish a statement to the Collateral Agent and the Deal Agent to
the effect that such firm has examined such Servicing Records relating to the
Transferred Receivables as such firm deems necessary as a basis for the report
contemplated by this Section 7.09 and has issued its report therefor and that
such examination (1) was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, and accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and
such other audit procedures as such firm considered necessary in the
circumstances; (2) included tests relating to auto loans serviced for others in
accordance with the requirements of the Uniform Single Audit Program for
Mortgage Bankers (the "Program"), to the extent the procedures in the Program
                       -------                                               
are applicable to the servicing obligations set forth in this Agreement (3)
included an examination of the delinquency and loss statistics relating to the
Servicer's portfolio of automobile and light truck installment sales contracts;
and (4) except as described in the report, disclosed no exceptions or errors in
the records relating to automobile and light truck loans serviced for others
that, in the firm's opinion, paragraph four of the Program requires such firm to
report.  The accountants' report shall further state that (1) a review in
accordance with agreed upon procedures was made of three randomly selected
Servicer certificates; (2) except as disclosed in the report, no exceptions or
errors in the Servicer certificates were found; (3) the delinquency and loss
information, relating to the Receivables contained in the Servicer certificates
were found to be accurate and (4) except for (i) such exceptions as such firm
shall believe to be immaterial, and (ii) such other exceptions as shall be set
forth in such statement, such firm has examined the financial statements for the
preceding year of the Servicer and the Servicer's financial covenants in this
Agreement and, on the basis of such examination, the Servicer has complied
during such year with such covenants, and (c) that the Lenders, the Deal Agent
and the Collateral Agent may rely on such report.

                                      -56-
<PAGE>
 
          Section 7.10.  Termination of Servicer.  With the prior written
                         -----------------------                           
consent of the Required Investors, the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent, the
Borrower may terminate the Servicer.

          Section 7.11.  Corporate Existence.  The Servicer shall maintain its
                         -------------------                                    
corporate existence and shall at all times continue to be duly organized under
the laws of the State of California and duly qualified and duly authorized and
shall conduct its business in accordance with the terms of its certificate of
incorporation and bylaws.

          Section 7.12.  Cooperation With Requests for Information or Documents.
                         ------------------------------------------------------ 
The Servicer will cooperate fully with all reasonable requests of the Borrower,
the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent regarding the provision of any
information or documents, necessary, including the provision of such information
or documents in electronic or machine-readable format, or desirable to allow
each of the Borrower, the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent to carry out its
responsibilities under the Basic Documents.

                                  ARTICLE VIII

                          GRANT OF SECURITY INTERESTS

          Section 8.01.  Borrower's Grant of Security Interest.  As security
                         -------------------------------------                 
for the prompt payment or performance in full when due, whether at stated
maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of all Borrower Secured Obligations, the
Borrower hereby assigns and pledges to the Collateral Agent, as agent for the
Lenders, and grants to the Collateral Agent, as agent for the Lenders, a
security interest in and lien upon, all of the Borrower's right, title and
Interest in and to the following, in each case whether now or hereafter existing
or in which Borrower now has or hereafter acquires an interest and wherever the
same may be located (collectively, the "Collateral"):
                                        ----------   

          (a) all Transferred Receivables, Contracts and Collections;

          (b) each Lockbox Agreement and all Basic Documents now or hereafter in
effect relating to the purchase, servicing or processing of Transferred
Receivables (the "Borrower Assigned Agreements"), including (i) all rights of
                  ----------------------------                               
the Borrower to receive moneys due and to become due under or pursuant to the
Borrower Assigned Agreements, (ii) all rights of the Borrower to receive
proceeds of any insurance, indemnity, warranty or guaranty with respect to the
Borrower Assigned Agreements, (iii) the Borrower's right of foreclosure as
lienholder of the vehicles underlying the Receivables; (iv) claims of the
Borrower for damages arising out of or for breach of or default under the
Borrower Assigned Agreements, and (v) the right of the Borrower to amend, waive
or terminate the Borrower Assigned Agreements, to perform under the Borrower
Assigned Agreements and to compel performance and otherwise exercise all
remedies and rights under the Borrower Assigned Agreements;

          (c)  all of the following (the "Borrower Account Collateral"):
                                         ---------------------------   

               (i)    each Lockbox Account, the Lockboxes and all funds held in
     each Lockbox Account and the Lockboxes and all certificates and
     instruments, if any, from time to time representing or evidencing each
     Lockbox Account, the Lockboxes or such funds,

               (ii)   the Collection Account and the Successor Servicer Reserve
     Account, all funds held in the Collection Account and the Successor
     Servicer Reserve Account, and all certificates and instruments, if any,
     from time to time representing or evidencing the Collection Account or such
     funds,

               (iii)  all Investments from time to time of amounts in each
     Lockbox Account, the Collection Account and the Successor Servicer Reserve
     Account, and all certificates and instruments, if any, from time to time
     representing or evidencing such Investments,

                                      -57-
<PAGE>
 
               (iv)   all notes, certificates of deposit and other instruments
     from time to time delivered to or otherwise possessed by any Lender or any
     assignee or agent on behalf of each Lender in substitution for or in
     addition to any of the then existing Borrower Account Collateral, and

               (v)    all interest, dividends, cash, instruments and other
     property from time to time received, receivable or otherwise distributed in
     respect of or in exchange for any and all of the then existing Borrower
     Account Collateral;

          (d) all additional property that may from time to time hereafter be
granted and pledged by the Borrower or by anyone on its behalf under this
Agreement, including the deposit with any Lender, the Deal Agent or the
Collateral Agent of additional moneys by the Borrower; and

          (e) all Proceeds, accessions, substitutions, rents and profits of any
and all of the foregoing Collateral (including Proceeds that constitute property
of the types described in Sections 8.01 (a) through (d) above) and, to the
extent not otherwise included, all payments under insurance (whether or not any
Lender or any assignee or agent on behalf of the Lender is the loss payee
thereof) or any indemnity, warranty or guaranty payable by reason of loss or
damage to or otherwise with respect to any of the foregoing Collateral.

          Section 8.02.  Reserved.
                         --------   

          Section 8.03.  Reserved.
                         --------   

          Section 8.04.  Delivery of Collateral.  All certificates or
                         ----------------------                        
instruments representing or evidencing Collateral shall be delivered to and held
by or on behalf of the Collateral Agent pursuant to this Agreement, and shall be
in suitable form for transfer by delivery or shall be accompanied by duly
executed instruments of transfer or assignment in blank, all in form and
substance satisfactory to the Collateral Agent and to the extent not
constituting an assignment shall be irrevocable powers of attorney coupled with
an interest.  The Collateral Agent shall have the right, at any time in its
discretion and without notice to the Borrower or the Lender, to transfer to or
to register in the name of the Collateral Agent or any of its nominees any or
all of the Collateral.  In addition, the Collateral Agent shall have the right
at any time to exchange certificates or instruments representing or evidencing
Collateral for certificates or instruments of smaller or larger denominations.

          Section 8.05.  Borrower Remains Liable.  Notwithstanding anything in
                         -----------------------                                
this Agreement, (a) each of the Borrower and the Parent shall remain liable
under the Transferred Receivables, Contracts, Borrower Assigned Agreements and
other agreements included in the Collateral to perform all of its duties and
obligations thereunder to the same extent as if this Agreement had not been
executed, (b) the exercise by the Deal Agent as agent of the Lenders or the
Collateral Agent of any of its rights under this Agreement shall not release the
Borrower or the Servicer from any of their respective duties or obligations
under the Transferred Receivables, Contracts, Borrower Assigned Agreements or
other agreements included in the Collateral, (c) the Deal Agent as agent of the
Lenders and the Collateral Agent shall not have any obligation or liability
under the Transferred Receivables, Contracts, Borrower Assigned Agreements or
other agreements included in the Collateral by reason of this Agreement, and (d)
neither the Collateral Agent nor any of the other Secured Parties shall be
obligated to perform any of the obligations or duties of the Borrower or the
Servicer under the Transferred Receivables, Contracts, Borrower Assigned
Agreements or other agreements included in the Collateral or to take any action
to collect or enforce any claim for payment assigned under this Agreement.

          Section 8.06.  Covenants of the Borrower and Servicer Regarding the
                         ----------------------------------------------------
Collateral.
- ----------   

          (a) Offices and Records.  The Borrower shall keep its chief place of
              -------------------                                             
business and chief executive offices and the office where it keeps its Records
at the respective locations specified in Schedule 1 or, upon thirty (30) days
prior written notice to the Collateral Agent, at such other location in a
jurisdiction where all action required by Section 8.06(f) shall have been taken
with respect to the Collateral.  The Borrower and the Servicer shall, for not
less than three years or for such longer period as may be required by law, from
the date on 

                                      -58-
<PAGE>
 
which any Transferred Receivable arose, maintain the Records with respect to
each Transferred Receivable, including records of all payments received, credits
granted and merchandise returned. The Borrower and the Servicer will permit
representatives of the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent at any time and from
time to time during normal business hours, and at such times outside of normal
business hours as the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent shall reasonably
request, (i) to inspect and make copies of and abstracts from such records, and
(ii) to visit the properties of the Borrower or the Servicer utilized in
connection with the collection, processing or servicing of the Transferred
Receivables for the purpose of examining such Records, and to discuss matters
relating to the Receivables or the Borrower's or Servicer's performance under
this Agreement with any officer or employee of !he Borrower or Servicer having
knowledge of such matters. In connection therewith, the Deal Agent or the
Collateral Agent may institute procedures to permit it to confirm the Obligor
balances in respect of any Transferred Receivables. Each of the Borrower and the
Servicer agrees to render to the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent such
clerical and other assistance as may be reasonably requested with regard to the
foregoing. If a Termination Event shall have Occurred and be continuing,
promptly upon request therefor, the Borrower or the Servicer shall deliver to
the Collateral Agent records reflecting activity through the close of business
on the immediately preceding Business Day.

          (b) Collection of Transferred Receivables.  Except as otherwise
              -------------------------------------                      
provided in this Section 8.06(b), the Borrower shall continue to collect or
cause to be collected, at its own expense, all amounts due or to become due to
the Borrower under the Transferred Receivables, the Borrower Assigned Agreements
and any other Collateral.  In connection with such collections, the Borrower may
take (and at the Collateral Agent's direction after a Termination Event has
occurred and is continuing, shall take) such action as the Borrower or the
Collateral Agent may deem necessary or advisable to enforce collection of the
Transferred Receivables and the Borrower Assigned Agreements; provided, however,
that the Collateral Agent may, at any time that a Termination Event has occurred
and is continuing, notify any Obligor with respect to any Transferred
Receivables or obligors under the Borrower Assigned Agreements of the assignment
of such Transferred Receivables or Borrower Assigned Agreements, as the case may
be, to the Collateral Agent and direct that payments of all amounts due or to
become due to the Borrower thereunder be made directly to the Collateral Agent
or any servicer, collection agent or lockbox or other account designated by the
Collateral Agent and, upon such notification and at the expense of the Borrower,
the Collateral Agent may enforce collection of any such Transferred Receivables
or the Borrower Assigned Agreements and adjust, settle or compromise the amount
or payment thereof.

          (c) Maintain Records of Transferred Receivables.  The Borrower and the
              --------------------                                              
Servicer shall, at their own cost and expense, maintain satisfactory and
complete records of the Collateral, including a record of all payments received
and all credits granted with respect to the Collateral and all other dealings
with the Collateral.  Each of the Borrower and the Servicer will mark
conspicuously with a legend, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Collateral Agent, its records, computer tapes, computer disks and credit files
pertaining to the Collateral and the Related Contracts, and its file cabinets or
other storage facilities where it maintains information pertaining to the
Collateral, to evidence this Agreement and the assignment and security interest
granted by this Article VIII.  Upon the occurrence and during the continuation
                                                   ---                        
of a Termination Event, the Borrower and Servicer shall (1) deliver and turn
over to the Collateral Agent or to its representatives, or at the option of the
Collateral Agent shall provide the Collateral Agent or its representatives with
access to, after the occurrence of a Termination Event, at any time, and during
all other times, during ordinary business hours, on demand of the Collateral
Agent, all of the Borrower's and Servicer's facilities, personnel, books and
records pertaining to the Collateral, including all Records, and (ii) allow the
Collateral Agent to occupy the premises of the Borrower and the Servicer where
such books, records and Records are maintained, and utilize such premises, the
equipment thereon and any personnel of the Borrower or the Servicer that the
Collateral Agent may wish to employ to administer, service and collect the
Transferred Receivables.

          (d) Performance of Borrower Assigned Agreements.  The Borrower shall
              -------------------------------------------                     
(i) perform and observe all the terms and pro visions of the Borrower Assigned
Agreements to be performed or observed by it, maintain the Borrower Assigned
Agreements in full force and effect, enforce the Borrower Assigned Agreements in
accordance with their terms and take all such action to such end as may be from
time to time requested by the Collateral Agent, and (ii) upon request of the
Deal Agent or the Collateral Agent, make to any other party to the 

                                      -59-
<PAGE>
 
Borrower Assigned Agreements such demands and requests for information and
reports or for action as the Borrower is entitled to make under the Borrower
Assigned Agreements.

          (e) Notice of Adverse Claim.  Each of the Borrower and the Servicer
              -----------------------                                        
shall advise the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent promptly, in reasonable
detail, (i) of any Adverse Claim known to it made or asserted against any of the
Collateral, and (ii) of the occurrence of any event which would have a material
adverse effect on the aggregate value of the Collateral or on the assignments
and security interests granted by the Borrower in this Agreement.

          (f) Further Assurances; Financing Statements.
              ---------------------------------------- 

               (i)    Each of the Borrower and the Servicer severally agrees
     that at any time and from time to time, at its expense, it shall promptly
     execute and deliver all further instruments and documents, and take all
     further action, that may be necessary or desirable or that the Deal Agent
     or the Collateral Agent may request to perfect and protect the assignments
     and security interests granted or purported to be granted by this Article
     VIII or to enable the Lenders, the Deal Agent or the Collateral Agent to
     exercise and enforce its rights and remedies under this Agreement with
     respect to any Collateral. Without limiting the generality of the
     foregoing, the Borrower shall execute and file such financing or
     continuation statements, or amendments thereto, and such other instruments
     or notices as may be necessary or desirable or that the Deal Agent of the
     Collateral Agent may request to protect and preserve the assignments and
     security interests granted by this Agreement.

               (ii)   The Borrower and the Lenders hereby severally authorize
     the Collateral Agent to file one or more financing or continuation
     statements, and amendments thereto, relating to all or any part of the
     Collateral without the signature of the Borrower or the Lender where
     permitted by law. A photographic or other reproduction of this Agreement or
     any financing statement covering the Collateral or any part thereof shall
     be sufficient as a financing statement where permitted by law. The
     Collateral Agent will promptly send to the Borrower any financing or
     continuation statements thereto which it files without the signature of the
     Borrower and will promptly send to the Lenders any financing or
     continuation statements thereto which it files without the signature of the
     Lenders except in the case of filings of copies of this Agreement as
     financing statements, the Collateral Agent will promptly send the Borrower
     or the Lenders, as the case may be, the filing or recordation information
     with respect thereto.

               (iii)  Each of the Borrower and the Servicer shall furnish to the
     Collateral Agent from time to time such statements and schedules further
     identifying and describing the Collateral and such other reports in
     connection with the Collateral as the Collateral Agent may reasonably
     request, all in reasonable detail.

          Section 8.07.  Release of Collateral.
                         ---------------------   

          (a) Generally.  For purposes of effecting Dispositions or if the
              ---------                                                   
Borrowing Base is in excess of Advances Outstanding, so long as there is no
Potential Termination Event or Termination Event hereunder, the Borrower may
obtain releases of a Lender's security interest in all or any part of the
Collateral and from time to time, to the extent that (immediately after giving
effect to any requested release) there exists no Borrowing Excess and there is
no Potential Termination Event or Termination Event.  Each request for a partial
release of Collateral (a "Transfer Request") shall be addressed to the Deal
                          ----------------                                 
Agent, demonstrating compliance with the immediately preceding sentence and, if
applicable, acknowledging that the receipt of proceeds from such sale or
transfer to third parties shall be deposited into the Collection Account in
accordance with Section 6.02(a).

          (b) Transfers.  With respect to each Transfer Request that is received
              ---------                                                         
by the Deal Agent by 9:00 a.m. (Los Angeles, California time) on a Business Day,
the Deal Agent shall use due diligence and reasonable efforts to review such
Transfer Requests and prepare the files, identified in each Transfer Request,
for shipment by 9:00 a.m. on the second succeeding Business Day.  However,
requested transfers will not be made if the relevant conditions set forth in
Section 8.07(a) are not met.

                                      -60-
<PAGE>
 
          (c) Continuation of Lien.  Unless released in writing by the Lenders,
              --------------------                                             
as herein provided, the security interest in favor of the Collateral Agent, in
all Collateral transmitted pursuant to Section 3.4(b), shall continue in effect
                                       -----------                             
until such time as the Lenders shall have received payment in full of the
proceeds from the sale or transfer of such Collateral to third parties in
accordance with this Section 8.07.

          (d) Application of Proceeds; No Duty.  Neither of the Deal Agent, nor
              --------------------------------                                 
the Collateral Agent, nor any Lender shall be under any duty at any time to
credit Borrower for any amount due from any third party in respect of any
purchase of any Collateral contemplated above, until the Collateral Agent has
actually received such amount in immediately available funds for deposit to the
Collection Account.  Neither the Collateral Agent nor the Lenders, nor Deal
Agent shall be under any duty at any time to collect any amounts or otherwise
enforce any obligations due from any third party in respect of any such purchase
of Receivables covered by the release of such portion of Collateral or in
respect of a securitization thereof with a third party.

          (e) Representation in Connection with Releases, Sales and Transfers.
              ---------------------------------------------------------------  
The Borrower represents and warrants that each request for any release or
transfer pursuant to Section 8.07(a) shall automatically constitute a
representation and warranty to the Lenders, the Deal Agent and the Collateral
Agent to the effect that immediately before and after giving effect to such
release or Transfer Request, there is no Potential Termination Event or
Termination Event or Borrowing Excess.

          (f) Release of Security Interest.  Upon the Deal Agent's request, the
              ----------------------------                                  
Collateral Agent shall promptly release, at the Borrower's expense, all UCC
Financing Statements in connection with the release of such part of Collateral
covered in connection with the Transfer Request and shall deliver, at the
Borrower's expense, the documents and certificates (including the applicable
Obligor Delivery Documents) on the released portion of Collateral to the trustee
or such similar entity in connection with the third party securitization;
provided that the trustee or such similar entity in connection with the third
- --------                                                                     
party securitization acknowledges and agrees (i) that all proceeds thereof that
it receives, are held in trust for the Lenders and (ii) at such time that the
Lenders shall instruct such trustee to transfer such proceeds, the trustee shall
transfer such funds pursuant to such instructions.

                                   ARTICLE IX

                               TERMINATION EVENTS

          Section 9.01.  Termination Events.  If any of the following events
                         ------------------                                   
(each, a "Termination Event") shall occur and be continuing:
          -----------------                                 

          (a) (i) the Borrower shall default in the payment of any amount owed
by it hereunder and such failure shall remain unremedied for three Business
Days, or (ii) the Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any other term,
covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement and such failure shall remain
unremedied for five Business Days, in each case after written notice thereof
shall have been given by the Deal Agent or the Collateral Agent to the Borrower;
or

          (b) (i) a default (in the case of the Borrower only) or a material
default (in the case of the Parent only), has occurred and is continuing under
any instrument or agreement to which First Union or any of its Affiliates is a
party, evidencing, securing or providing for the issuance of Debt of the Parent
or the Borrower, or (ii) a default has occurred and is continuing entitling any
other party to accelerate any payment of Debt in excess of $500,000, in the
aggregate, under any Instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or providing
for the issuance of Debt of the Parent or the Borrower; or

          (c) the Parent or the Borrower shall generally not pay any of its
respective Debts as such Debts become due, or shall admit in writing its
inability to pay its Debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the
benefit of creditors, or any-proceeding shall be instituted by or against the
Parent or the Borrower seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or
seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment,
protection, relief or composition of it or any of its Debts under any law
relating to 

                                      -61-
<PAGE>
 
bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the
entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee,
custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its
property, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without
limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a
receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any
substantial part of its property) shall occur and, solely with respect to the
Parent, any such proceeding remains unremedied for 60 days, or the Parent or the
Borrower shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set
forth in this subsection; or

          (d) judgments or orders for the payment of money (other than such
judgments or orders  in respect of which adequate insurance is maintained for
the payment thereof) in excess of $500,000 in the aggregate against the Parent
or any of its Affiliates shall remain unpaid, unstayed on appeal, undischarged,
unbonded or undismissed for a period of thirty (30) days or more; or

          (e) a judgment or order for the payment of money in excess of $5,000
is rendered against the Borrower; or

          (f) there is a material breach of any of the representations and
warranties of the Borrower set forth in Section 4.01 or 4.02; or

          (g) any Governmental Authority (including the Internal Revenue Service
or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation), shall file notice of a lien with
regard to any assets of the Parent (other than a lien (i) limited by its terms
to assets other than Receivables and (ii) not materially adversely affecting the
financial condition at the Parent or the Parent's ability to perform as Servicer
hereunder); or

          (h) any Governmental Authority (including the Internal Revenue Service
or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation) shall file notice of a lien with
regard to any of the assets of the Borrower; or

          (i) as of any Settlement Date, the Default Rate has been greater than
9.5% for each of the three (3) preceding Settlement Periods; or

          (j)  as of any Settlement Date the Delinquency Rate has been greater
than 4.25% for each of the three (3) preceding Settlement Periods; or

          (k) the Deal Agent or the Collateral Agent has determined that any
event which materially adversely affects the collectibility of the Receivables
has occurred, or that any other event which materially adversely affects the
financial condition of the Parent or the Borrower, the ability of the Parent or
the Borrower to collect Receivables or the ability of the Borrower to perform
hereunder has occurred and such material adverse effect has not been eliminated
within thirty (30) days of Collateral Agent's written notice to Borrower and
Parent of such change; or

          (l) a material deterioration has taken place in the quality of the
Transferred Receivables or in the collectibility thereof which either the Deal
Agent or the Collateral Agent, in each of its sole discretion, determines to be
material and such material deterioration has not been eliminated within thirty
(30) days of Collateral Agent's written notice to Borrower and Parent of such
deterioration; or

          (m) there shall occur a failure of the Parent to make any payment,
repurchase Ineligible Receivables or substitute Ineligible Receivables with
Eligible Receivables as required under the Receivables Transfer Agreement and
such failure shall continue for three Business Days, or if the Receivables
Transfer Agreement shall for any reason cease to evidence the transfer to the
Borrower (or its assignees or transferees) of the legal and equitable title to,
and ownership of, the Transferred Receivables; or

          (n) the Receivables Transfer Agreement has been amended or terminated
without the written consent of the Lenders, the Deal Agent and the Collateral
Agent; or

                                      -62-
<PAGE>
 
          (o) an Event of Servicer Termination has occurred; or

          (p) the Deal Agent has determined that the funding of Receivables
hereunder is impracticable due to a drop in or withdrawal of any of the ratings
assigned to a Lender's Commercial Paper, the imposition of Additional Amounts,
restrictions on the amount of Transferred Receivables it may finance, the
inability of the Lender to issue Commercial Paper or for any other reason
whatsoever; or

          (q) the Lenders and the Collateral Agent cease to hold a first
priority, perfected security interest in the Transferred Receivables; or

          (r) the Net Portfolio Yield for the Settlement Period in which such
date of determination occurs shall not equal or exceed 10.5%, where the "Net
                                                                         ---
Portfolio Yield" is the weighted average of the Receivable Yields with respect
- ---------------                                                               
to all Transferred Receivables (weighted on the basis of the outstanding
principal balance of each Receivable as of the end of such Settlement Period)
less the Cost of Funds; or
- ----                      

          (s) the obligations of the Investors to purchase Pro Rata Shares of
Purchased Interests under the Liquidity Purchase Agreement (as defined therein)
or to make Advances under this Agreement have terminated; or

          (t) a breach of the covenants in Section 7.06 has occurred; or

          (u) a breach of a provision of any Basic Documents has occurred; or

          (v) the Eligible Receivables fail to meet the Portfolio Requirements
for a period of 30 days; or

          (w) any letter of credit, liquidity facility or similar facility with
respect to a Lender shall either (i) cease to be in full force and effect; or
(ii) the related provider shall have terminated its commitment thereunder; or

          (x) as of any Settlement Date, the weighted average (weighted by the
average aggregate Contract Principal Balance of each Subgroup of Receivables) of
the Net Loss Rates (computed separately for each Subgroup of Receivables) has
been greater than 3.25% for each of the three (3) preceding Settlement Periods;

          then, and in any such event, the Deal Agent shall, at the request, or
may with the consent, of the Required Investors, by notice to the Borrower
declare the Commitment Termination Date to have occurred, whereupon the
Commitment Termination Date shall forthwith occur, without demand, protest or
further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the
Borrower, provided, that in the event that any of the Termination Events
          --------                                                      
described in subsections (c), (i), (j), (r), (v) or (x) herein have occurred or
the Termination Event described in subsection (a)(i) has occurred and remained
unremedied for thirty days, the Commitment Termination Date shall automatically
occur, without demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are
hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.

          Section 9.02.  Events of Servicer Termination  .  If any of the
                         ------------------------------                  
following events (each, an "Event of Servicer Termination") shall occur and be
                            -----------------------------                     
continuing:

          (a) the Servicer shall fall to perform or observe any term, covenant
or agreement contained in this Agreement and such failure shall remain
unremedied for three (3) Business Days after written notice thereof shall have
been given by the Liquidity Agent, the Collateral Agent or the Deal Agent to the
Servicer; or

          (b) (i) a default has occurred and is continuing under any instrument
or agreement to which First Union or any of its Affiliates is a party,
evidencing, securing or providing for the Issuance of Debt of the Servicer, or
(ii) a default has occurred and is continuing entitling a party to accelerate
any payment of Debt under any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or
providing for the issuance of Debt of the Servicer; or

                                      -63-
<PAGE>
 
          (c) the Servicer shall generally not pay any of its Debts as such
Debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its Debts
generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or
any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Servicer seeking to
adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up,
reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief or composition of it
or any of its Debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief
or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official
for it or for any substantial part of its property, or any of the actions sought
in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for
relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other
similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall
occur and any such proceeding remains undismissed for 60 days, or the Servicer
shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth in
this subsection; or

          (d) judgments or orders for the payment of money (other than such
judgments or orders in respect of which adequate insurance is maintained for the
payment thereof) in excess of $500,000 in the aggregate against the Servicer or
any of its Affiliates shall remain unpaid, unstayed on appeal, undischarged,
unbonded or undismissed for a period of 30 days or more; or

          (e) there is a material breach of any of the representations and
warranties of the Servicer set forth in Section 4.03; or

          (f) the Deal Agent or the Collateral Agent shall have determined that
any event which materially adversely affects the ability of the Servicer to
collect Receivables or to otherwise perform hereunder has occurred, and such
material adverse effect has not been eliminated within thirty (30) days of the
Collateral Agent's written notice to Servicer of such event; or

          (g) a Termination Event shall have occurred or this agreement shall
have been terminated; or

          (h) the Servicer shall assign or purport to assign any of its
obligations hereunder or under the Receivables Transfer Agreement without the
prior written consent of the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent; or

          (i) a Change In Control has occurred;

          then, and in any such event, the Deal Agent shall (on behalf of the
Borrower), at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Investors or
the Collateral Agent, by delivery of a Servicer Termination Notice to the
Borrower and the Servicer, terminate the servicing responsibilities of the
Servicer hereunder, without demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all
of which are hereby waived by the Servicer.  Upon any such declaration, all
authority and power of the Servicer under this Agreement and the Receivables
Transfer Agreement shall pass to and be vested in the Successor Servicer
appointed pursuant to Section 11.02; provided, that notwithstanding anything to
                                     --------                                  
the contrary herein, the Borrower agrees that it will continue to follow the
procedures set forth in Section 7.02(b)(ii) with respect to Collections on
Transferred Receivables from Allotment Obligors.

                                      -64-
<PAGE>
 
          All related costs of replacing the Servicer and transferring the
servicing of the Receivables to a Successor Servicer, including but not limited
to all internal and external costs and reimbursable expenses of the Servicer,
shall be borne by the Servicer.

                                   ARTICLE X

                                   REMEDIES

          Section 10.01.    Actions Upon Termination Event.  If any
                            ------------------------------           
Termination Event shall have occurred and be continuing and the Deal Agent shall
have declared the Commitment Termination Date to have occurred or the Commitment
Termination Date shall have been deemed to have occurred pursuant to Section
9.01, then the Collateral Agent may exercise in respect of the Collateral, in
addition to any and all other rights and remedies otherwise available to it all
of the rights and remedies of a secured party upon default under the UCC (such
rights and remedies to be cumulative and nonexclusive), and, in addition, may
take the following remedial actions:

          (a) The Collateral Agent may, without notice to the Borrower except as
required by law and at any time or from time to time, charge, set-off and
otherwise apply all or any part of the Borrower Secured Obligations against
amounts payable to the Borrower from the Lockbox Account, the Lockboxes, the
Collection Account, the Successor Servicer Reserve Account or any part of such
accounts in accordance with the priorities required by Section 10.03.

          (b) The Collateral Agent may, without notice except as specified
below, solicit and accept bids for and sell the Collateral or any part of the
Collateral in one or more parcels at public or private sale, at any exchange,
broker's board or at any of the Lenders', Deal Agent's or Collateral Agent's
offices or elsewhere, for cash, on credit or for future delivery, and upon such
other terms as the Collateral Agent may deem commercially reasonable.  The
Borrower agrees that, to the extent notice of sale shall be required by law, at
least ten Business Days' notice to the Borrower of the time and place of any
public sale or the time after which any private sale is to be made shall
constitute reasonable notification.  The Collateral Agent shall not be obligated
to make any sale of Collateral regardless of notice of sale having been given.
The Collateral Agent may adjourn any public or private sale from time to time by
announcement at the time and place fixed for such sale, and such sale may,
without further notice, be made at the time and place to which it was so
adjourned.  Every such sale shall operate to divest all right, title, interest,
claim and demand whatsoever of the Borrower in and to the Collateral so sold,
and shall be a perpetual bar, both at law and in equity, against the Borrower,
the Parent, any Person claiming the Collateral sold through the Borrower, the
Parent and their respective successors or assigns.

          (c) Upon the completion of any sale under Section 10.01 (b), the
Borrower or the Servicer will deliver or cause to be delivered all of the
Collateral sold to the purchaser or purchasers at such sale on the date of sale,
or within a reasonable time thereafter if it shall be impractical to make
immediate delivery, but in any event full title and right of possession to such
property shall pass to such purchaser or purchasers forthwith upon the
completion of such sale.  Nevertheless, if so requested by the Collateral Agent
or by any purchaser, the Borrower shall confirm any such sale or transfer by
executing and delivering to such purchaser all proper instruments of conveyance
and transfer and releases as may be designated in any such request.

          (d) At any sale under Section 10.01 (b), the Lenders, any holder of a
Note (the identity of which, if other than the Collateral Agent, shall be
disclosed by the Borrower to each Rating Agency), the Collateral Agent or any
Secured Party may bid for and purchase the property offered for sale and, upon
compliance with the terms of sale, may hold, retain and dispose of such property
without further accountability therefor.  Any holder of a Note purchasing
property at a sale under Section 10.01 (b) may set off the purchase price of
such property against amounts outstanding under such Note in full payment of
such purchase price.

          (e) The Collateral Agent may exercise at the Borrower's expense any
and all rights and remedies of the Borrower under or in connection with the
Borrower Assigned Agreements or the other Collateral, 

                                      -65-
<PAGE>
 
including any and all rights of the Borrower to demand or otherwise require
payment of any amount under, or performance of any provisions of, the Borrower
Assigned Agreements.

          Section 10.02.    Receipt of Payments in Trust.  All payments
                            ----------------------------                 
received by the Borrower, the Parent, the Servicer, the Lenders or the Deal
Agent under or in connection with the Collateral shall be received in trust for
the benefit of the Collateral Agent, shall be segregated from other funds of
such party and shall be forthwith paid over to the Collateral Agent in the same
form as so received (with any necessary endorsement).

          Section 10.03.    Application of Proceeds.  Any cash held by or on
                            -----------------------                           
behalf or the Collateral Agent as Collateral, whether from Transferred
Receivables or otherwise, and all cash proceeds received by the Collateral Agent
in respect of any of, sale of, collection from or other realization upon all or
any part of the Collateral, shall be applied as set forth in Section 6.05.  Any
surplus of such cash or cash proceeds held by or on behalf of the Collateral
Agent shall be disposed of in accordance with Section 6.08.

          Section 10.04.    Exercise of Remedies.  No failure or delay on the
                            --------------------                               
part of the Collateral Agent to exercise any right, power or privilege under
this Agreement and no course of dealing between the Borrower, the Servicer, the
Lenders, the Liquidity Agent or the Deal Agent, on the one hand, and the
Collateral Agent, on the other hand, shall operate as a waiver of such right,
power or privilege, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, power
or privilege under this Agreement preclude any other or further exercise of such
right, power or privilege or the exercise of any other right, power or
privilege.  The rights and remedies expressly provided in this Agreement are
cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies which the Collateral
Agent or the Secured Parties would otherwise have pursuant to law or equity.  No
notice to or demand on any party in any case shall entitle such party to any
other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances, or
constitute a waiver of the right of the other party to any other or further
action in any circumstances without notice or demand.

          Section 10.05.  Severability of Remedies.  The invalidity of any
                          ------------------------                          
remedy in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate such remedy in any other
jurisdiction.  The invalidity or unenforceability of the remedies herein
provided in any jurisdiction shall not in any way affect the right of the
enforcement in such jurisdiction or elsewhere of any of the other remedies
herein provided.

          Section 10.06.  Waiver of Agreement.  Each of the Borrower and the
                          -------------------                                 
Servicer agrees, to the full extent that it may lawfully so agree, that neither
it nor anyone claiming through or under it will set up, claim or seek to take
advantage of any appraisement, valuation, stay, extension or redemption law now
or hereafter in force in any locality where any Collateral may be situated in
order to prevent hinder or delay the enforcement or foreclosure of this
Agreement, or the absolute sale of any of the Collateral or any part thereof, or
the final and absolute putting into possession thereof, immediately after such
sale, of the purchasers thereof, and each of the Borrower and the Servicer, for
itself and all who may at any time claim through or under it, hereby waives, to
the full extent that it may be lawful so to do, the benefit of all such laws,
and any and all right to have any of the properties or assets constituting the
Collateral marshalled upon any such sale, and agrees that the Collateral Agent
or any court having jurisdiction to foreclose the security interests granted in
this Agreement may sell the Collateral as an entirety or in such parcels as the
Collateral Agent or such court may determine.

          Section 10.07.  Power of Attorney.  Each of the Borrower and the
                          -----------------                                 
Servicer hereby irrevocably appoints the Collateral Agent its true and lawful
attorney (with full power of substitution) in its name, place and stead and at
its expense, in connection with the enforcement of the rights and remedies
provided for in this Article X, including with the following powers:  (a) to
give any necessary receipts or acquittance for amounts collected or received
hereunder, (b) to make all necessary transfers of the Collateral in connection
with any sale or other disposition made pursuant hereto, (c) to execute and
deliver for value all necessary or appropriate bills of sale, assignments and
other instruments in connection with any such sale or other disposition, the
Borrower and the Servicer hereby ratifying and confirming all that such attorney
(or any substitute) shall lawfully do hereunder and pursuant hereto, and (d) to
sign any agreements, orders or other documents in connection with or pursuant to
any Basic Document.  Nevertheless, if so requested by the Collateral Agent or 
a purchaser of Collateral, the Borrower shall ratify and confirm any such sale
or other disposition by executing and delivering to the Collateral Agent or 

                                      -66-
<PAGE>
 
such purchaser all proper bills of sale, assignments, releases and other
instruments as may be designated in any such request.

          Section 10.08.  Continuing Security Interest.  This Agreement shall
                          ----------------------------                         
create a continuing security interest in the Collateral until the satisfaction
of Section 6.08 of this Agreement.

                                  ARTICLE XI

                              SUCCESSOR SERVICER

          Section 11.01.  Servicer Not to Resign.  The Servicer shall not
                          ----------------------                           
resign from the obligations and duties hereby imposed on it except upon
determination that (a) the performance of its duties hereunder has become
impermissible under applicable law, and (b) there is no reasonable action which
the Servicer could take to make the performance of its duties hereunder
permissible under applicable law.  Any such determination permitting the
resignation of the Servicer shall be evidenced as to clause (a) above by an
opinion of counsel to such effect delivered to the Collateral Agent and the Deal
Agent.  No such resignation shall become effective until a successor servicer
shall have assumed the responsibilities and obligations of the Servicer in
accordance with Section 11.02.

          Section 11.02.  Appointment of the Successor Servicer.  In
                          -------------------------------------       
connection with the termination of the Servicer's responsibilities under this
Agreement pursuant to Section 9.02 or 11.01, the Deal Agent shall appoint a
successor Servicer to the Servicer which shall succeed to all rights and assume
all of the responsibilities, duties and liabilities of the Servicer under this
Agreement (such successor Servicer being referred to as the "Successor
                                                             ---------
Servicer"); provided, that the Successor Servicer shall have no responsibility
            --------                                                          
for any actions of the Servicer prior to the date of its appointment as
Successor Servicer.  In selecting a Successor Servicer, the Deal Agent may
obtain bids from any potential Successor Servicer and may agree to any bid it
deems appropriate.  The Successor Servicer shall accept its appointment by
executing, acknowledging and delivering to the Deal Agent and the Collateral
Agent an instrument in form and substance acceptable to the Deal Agent and the
Collateral Agent.

          Section 11.03.  Duties of the Servicer.  At any time following the
                          ----------------------                              
appointment of a Successor Servicer:

          (a) The Servicer agrees that it will terminate its activities as
Servicer hereunder in a manner acceptable to the Collateral Agent so as to
facilitate the transfer of servicing to the Successor Servicer including,
without limitation, timely delivery (i) to the Collateral Agent of any funds
that were required to be remitted to the Collateral Agent for deposit in the
Collection Account, and (ii) to the Successor Servicer, at a place selected by
the Successor Servicer, of all Servicing Records and other information with
respect to the Transferred Receivables.  The Servicer shall account for all
funds and shall execute and deliver such instruments and do such other things as
may reasonably be required to more fully and definitely vest and confirm in the
Successor Servicer all rights, powers, duties, responsibilities, obligations and
liabilities of the Servicer.

          (b) The Servicer shall terminate each Sub-Servicing Agreement that may
have been entered into and the Successor Servicer shall not be deemed to have
assumed any of the Servicer's interest therein or to have replaced the Servicer
as a party to any such Sub-Servicing Agreement.

          Section 11.04.  Effect of Termination or Resignation.  Any
                          ------------------------------------        
termination or resignation of the Servicer under this Agreement shall not affect
any claims that the Borrower, the Collateral Agent, any Lender, the Liquidity
Agent or the Deal Agent may have against the Servicer for events or actions
taken or not taken by the Servicer arising prior to any such termination or
resignation.

                                      -67-
<PAGE>
 
                                  ARTICLE XII

                                INDEMNIFICATION

          Section 12.01.  Indemnities by the Borrower.  (a) Without limiting
                          ---------------------------                         
any other rights that the Collateral Agent, the Lenders, the Deal Agent, the
Liquidity Agent, or any director, officer, employee or agent or incorporator of
such party (each an "Indemnified Party") may have hereunder or under applicable
                     -----------------                                         
law, the Borrower hereby agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Party from and
against any and all claims, losses, liabilities, obligations, damages,
penalties, actions, judgments, suits, and related costs and expenses of any
nature whatsoever, including reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements (all
of the foregoing being collectively referred to as "Indemnified Amounts"), which
                                                    -------------------         
may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against an Indemnified Party in any
way arising out of or relating to (i) any breach of the Borrower's obligations
under any Basic Document, (ii) the financing or the pledge of the Transferred
Receivables, or (iii) any Receivable or any Contract, excluding, however,
Indemnified Amounts to the extent resulting solely from gross negligence or
willful misconduct on the part of such Indemnified Party.  Without limiting or
being limited by the foregoing, the Borrower shall pay on demand to each
Indemnified Party any and all amounts necessary to indemnify such Indemnified
Party from and against any and all Indemnified Amounts relating to or resulting
from:

               (A) reliance on any representation or warranty made or deemed
     made by the Borrower (or any of its officers) under or in connection with
     any Basic Document or any report or other information delivered by the
     Borrower pursuant hereto which shall have been incorrect in any material
     respect when made or deemed made or delivered;

               (B) the failure by the Borrower to comply with any term,
     provision or covenant contained in any Basic Document or any agreement
     executed by it in connection with this Agreement or with any applicable
     law, rule or regulation with respect to any Transferred Receivable or its
     related Contract, or the nonconformity of any Transferred Receivable or its
     related Contract with any such applicable law, rule or regulation; or

               (C) the failure to vest and maintain vested in the Borrower legal
     and equitable title to and ownership of the Receivables that are, or are
     purported to be, Transferred Receivables, together with all Collections in
     respect thereof, free and clear of any Adverse Claim or Restrictions on
     Transferability (except as permitted hereunder) whether existing at the
     time of the purchase of such Receivable or at any time thereafter, and to
     maintain or transfer to the Collateral Agent a first priority, perfected
     security interest therein.

          (b) Any Indemnified Amounts subject to the indemnification provisions
of this Section 12.01 not paid in accordance with Article VI, to the extent that
funds are available therefor in accordance with the provisions of Article VI,
shall be paid to the Indemnified Party within five Business Days following
demand therefor.

          Section 12.02.  Indemnities by the Servicer.  (a) Without limiting
                          ---------------------------                         
any other rights that an Indemnified Party may have hereunder or under
applicable low, the Servicer hereby agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Party
from and against any and all Indemnified Amounts that may be imposed on,
incurred by or asserted against an Indemnified Party in any way arising out of
or relating to any breach of the Servicer's obligations under this Agreement
excluding, however, Indemnified Amounts to the extent resulting from gross
negligence or willful misconduct on the part of such Indemnified Party.  Without
limiting or being limited by the foregoing, the Servicer shall pay on demand to
each Indemnified Party any and all amounts necessary to indemnify such
Indemnified Party from and against any and all Indemnified Amounts relating to
or resulting from:

               (i) reliance on any representation or warranty made or deemed
     made by the Servicer (or any of its officers) under or in connection with
     any Basic Document or any report or other information delivered by the
     Servicer pursuant hereto which shall have been incorrect in any material
     respect when made or deemed made or delivered; or

                                      -68-
<PAGE>
 
               (ii) the failure by the Servicer to comply with any term,
     provision or covenant contained in any Basic Document or any agreement
     executed by it in connection with this Agreement or with any applicable
     law, rule or regulation with respect to any Transferred Receivable or its
     related Contract, or the imposition of any Adverse Claim (except as
     permitted hereunder) with respect to a Transferred Receivable as a result
     of the Servicer's actions hereunder.

          (b) Any Indemnified Amounts subject to the indemnification provisions
of this Section shall be paid to the Indemnified Party within five Business Days
following demand therefor.

                                 ARTICLE VIII

                    THE DEAL AGENT AND THE LIQUIDITY AGENT

          Section 13.01.  Authorization and Action.
                          ------------------------   

          (a) Each Lender hereby designates and appoints FCMC as Deal Agent
hereunder, and authorizes the Deal Agent to take such actions as agent on its
behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Deal Agent by the
terms of this Agreement together with such powers as are reasonably incidental
thereto.  The Deal Agent shall not have any duties or responsibilities, except
those expressly set forth herein, or any fiduciary relationship with any Lender,
and no implied covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, obligations or
liabilities on the part of the Deal Agent shall be read into this Agreement or
otherwise exist for the Deal Agent.  In performing its functions and duties
hereunder, the Deal Agent shall act solely as agent for the Lenders and does not
assume nor shall be deemed to have assumed any obligation or relationship of
trust or agency with or for the Borrower or any of its successors or assigns.
The Deal Agent shall not be required to take any action that exposes the Deal
Agent to personal liability or that is contrary to this Agreement or applicable
law.  The appointment and authority of the Deal Agent hereunder shall terminate
at the indefeasible payment in full of the Aggregate Unpaids or under any the
Fee Letter.

          (b) Each Investor hereby designates and appoints First Union as
Liquidity Agent hereunder, and authorizes the Liquidity Agent to take such
actions as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to
the Liquidity Agent by the terms of this Agreement together with such powers as
are reasonably incidental thereto.  The Liquidity Agent shall not have any
duties or responsibilities, except those expressly set forth herein, or any
fiduciary relationship with any Investor, and no implied covenants, functions,
responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities on the part of the
Liquidity Agent shall be read into this Agreement or otherwise exist for the
Liquidity Agent.  In performing its functions and duties hereunder, the
Liquidity Agent shall act solely as agent for the Investors and does not assume
nor shall be deemed to have assumed any obligation or relationship of trust or
agency with or for the Borrower or any of its successors or assigns.  The
Liquidity Agent shall not be required to take any action which exposes the
Liquidity Agent to personal liability or which is contrary to this Agreement or
applicable law.  The appointment and authority of the Liquidity Agent hereunder
shall terminate at the indefeasible payment in full of all outstanding principal
amounts of Advances, Daily Yield and any amount at any time due hereunder or
under the Fee Letter.

          Section 13.02.  Delegation of Duties.
                          --------------------   

          (a) The Deal Agent may execute any of its duties under this Agreement
by or through agents or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled to advice of
counsel concerning all matters pertaining to such duties.  The Deal Agent shall
not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agents or attorneys-
in-fact selected by it with reasonable care.

          (b) The Liquidity Agent may execute any of its duties under this
Agreement by or through agents or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled to
advice of counsel concerning all matters pertaining to such duties.  The
Liquidity Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any
agents or attorneys-in-fact selected by it with reasonable care.

                                      -69-
<PAGE>
 
          Section 13.03.  Exculpatory Provisions.
                          ----------------------   

          (a) Neither the Deal Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents
or employees shall be (i) liable for any action lawfully taken or omitted to be
taken by it or them under or in connection with this Agreement (except for its,
their or such Person's own gross negligence or willful misconduct), or (ii)
responsible in any manner to any of the Lenders for any recitals, statements,
representations or warranties made by the Borrower contained in this Agreement
or in any certificate, report, statement or other document referred to or
provided for in, or received under or in connection with, this Agreement or for
the value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency
of this Agreement or any other document furnished in connection herewith, or for
any failure of the Borrower to perform its obligations hereunder, or for the
satisfaction of any condition specified in Article III.  The Deal Agent shall
not be under any obligation to any Lender to ascertain or to inquire as to the
observance or performance of any of the agreements or covenants contained in, or
conditions of, this Agreement, or to inspect the properties, books or records of
the Borrower.  The Deal Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any
Termination Event unless the Deal Agent has received notice from the Borrower or
a Lender.

          (b) Neither the Liquidity Agent nor any of its directors, officers,
agents or employees shall be (i) liable for any action lawfully taken or omitted
to be taken by it or them under or in connection with this Agreement (except for
its, their or such Person's own gross negligence or willful misconduct), or (ii)
responsible in any manner to the Deal Agent or any of the Lenders for any
recitals, statements, representations or warranties made by the Borrower
contained in this Agreement or in any certificate, report, statement or other
document referred to or provided for in, or received under or in connection
with, this Agreement or for the value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness,
enforceability or sufficiency of this Agreement or any other document furnished
in connection herewith, or for any failure of the Borrower to perform its
obligations hereunder, or for the satisfaction of any condition specified in
Article III.  The Liquidity Agent shall not be under any obligation to the Deal
Agent or any Lender to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or
performance of any of the agreements or covenants contained in, or conditions
of, this Agreement, or to inspect the properties, books or records of the
Borrower.  The Liquidity Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any
Termination Event unless the Liquidity Agent has received notice from the
Borrower, the Deal Agent or a Lender.

          Section 13.04.  Reliance.
                          --------   

          (a) The Deal Agent shall in all cases be entitled to rely, and shall
be fully protected in relying, upon any document or conversation believed by it
to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper
Person or Persons and upon advice and statements of legal counsel (including,
without limitation, counsel to the Borrower), independent accountants and other
experts selected by the Deal Agent.  The Deal Agent shall in all cases be fully
justified in failing or refusing to take any action under this Agreement or any
other document furnished in connection herewith unless it shall first receive
such advice or concurrence of VFCC or the Required Investors or all of the
Lenders, as applicable, as it deems appropriate or it shall first be indemnified
to its satisfaction by the Lenders, provided that unless and until the Deal
                                    --------                               
Agent shall have received such advice, the Deal Agent may take or refrain from
taking any action, as the Deal Agent shall deem advisable and in the best
interests of the Lenders.  The Deal Agent shall in all cases be fully protected
in acting, or in refraining from acting, in accordance with a request of VFCC or
the Required Investors or all of the Lenders, as applicable, and such request
and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon
all the Lenders.

          (b) The Liquidity Agent shall in all cases be entitled to rely, and
shall be fully protected in relying, upon any document or conversation believed
by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the
proper Person or Persons and upon advice and statements of legal counsel
(including, without limitation, counsel to the Borrower), independent
accountants and other experts selected by the Liquidity Agent.  The Liquidity
Agent shall in all cases be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any
action under this Agreement or any other document furnished in connection
herewith unless it shall first receive such advice or concurrence of Required
Investors as it deems appropriate or it shall first be indemnified to its
satisfaction by the 

                                      -70-
<PAGE>
 
Investors, provided that unless and until the Liquidity Agent shall have
           --------                                    
received such advice, the Liquidity Agent may take or refrain from taking any
action, as the Liquidity Agent shall deem advisable and in the best interests of
the Investors. The Liquidity Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in
acting, or in refraining from acting, in accordance with a request of the
Required Investors and such request and any action taken or failure to act
pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all the Investors.

          Section 13.05.  Non-Reliance on Deal Agent, Liquidity Agent and Other
                          -----------------------------------------------------
Lenders.
- -------   

          Each Lender expressly acknowledges that neither the Deal Agent, the
Liquidity Agent nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents,
attorneys-in-fact or affiliates has made any representations or warranties to it
and that no act by the Deal Agent hereafter taken, including, without
limitation, any review of the affairs of the Borrower, shall be deemed to
constitute any representation or warranty by the Deal Agent or the Liquidity
Agent.  Each Lender represents and warrants to the Deal Agent and to the
Liquidity Agent that it has and will, independently and without reliance upon
the Deal Agent, the Liquidity Agent or any other Lender and based on such
documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal
of and investigation into the business, operations, property, prospects,
financial and other conditions and creditworthiness of the Borrower and made its
own decision to enter into this Agreement.

          Section 13.06.  Reimbursement and Indemnification.
                          ---------------------------------   

          The Investors agree to reimburse and indemnify VFCC, the Deal Agent,
the Liquidity Agent and each of their respective officers, directors, employees,
representatives and agents ratably according to their Pro-Rata Shares, to the
extent not paid or reimbursed by the Borrower (i) for any amounts for which
VFCC, the Liquidity Agent, acting in its capacity as Liquidity Agent, or the
Deal Agent, acting in its capacity as Deal Agent, is entitled to reimbursement
by the Borrower hereunder and (ii) for any other expenses incurred by VFCC, the
Liquidity Agent, acting in its capacity as Liquidity Agent, or the Deal Agent,
in its capacity as Deal Agent and acting on behalf of the Lenders, in connection
with the administration and enforcement of this Agreement.

          Section 13.07.  Deal Agent and Liquidity Agent in their Individual
                          --------------------------------------------------
Capacities.
- ----------   

          The Deal Agent, the Liquidity Agent and each of their respective
Affiliates may make loans to, accept deposits from and generally engage in any
kind of business with the Borrower or any Affiliate of the Borrower as though
the Deal Agent or the Liquidity Agent, as the case may be, were not the Deal
Agent or the Liquidity Agent, as the case may be, hereunder.  With respect to
the making of Advances pursuant to this Agreement, the Deal Agent, the Liquidity
Agent and each of their respective Affiliates shall have the same rights and
powers under this Agreement as any Lender and may exercise the same as though it
were not the Deal Agent or the Liquidity Agent, as the case may be, and the
terms "Investor," "Lender," "Investors" and "Lenders" shall include the Deal
       --------    ------    ---------       -------                        
Agent or the Liquidity Agent, as the case may be, in its individual capacity.

          Section 13.08.  Successor Deal Agent or Liquidity Agent.
                          ---------------------------------------   

          (a) The Deal Agent may, upon five (5) days' notice to the Borrower and
the Lenders, and the Deal Agent will, upon the direction of all of the Lenders
(other than the Deal Agent, in its individual capacity) resign as Deal Agent.
If the Deal Agent shall resign, then the Required Investors during such 5-day
period shall appoint from among the Lenders a successor agent.  If for any
reason no successor Deal Agent is appointed by the Required Investors during
such 5-day period, then effective upon the termination of such five day period,
the Lenders shall perform all of the duties of the Deal Agent hereunder and the
Borrower shall make all payments in respect of the Aggregate Unpaids or under
the Fee Letter directly to the applicable Lender and for all purposes shall deal
directly with the Lenders.  After any retiring Deal Agent's resignation
hereunder as Deal Agent, the provisions of Articles VII and VIII shall inure to
its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was
Deal Agent under this Agreement.

                                      -71-
<PAGE>
 
          (b) The Liquidity Agent may, upon five (5) days' notice to the
Borrower, the Deal Agent and the Investors, and the Liquidity Agent will, upon
the direction of all of the Investors (other than the Liquidity Agent, in its
individual capacity) resign as Liquidity Agent.  If the Liquidity Agent shall
resign, then the Required Investors during such 5-day period shall appoint from
among the Investors a successor Liquidity Agent.  If for any reason no successor
Liquidity Agent is appointed by the Required Investors during such 5-day period,
then effective upon the termination of such five day period, the Investors shall
perform all of the duties of the Liquidity Agent hereunder and the Borrower
shall make all payments in respect of principal amounts of Advances Outstanding,
Daily Yield and any amount due at any time hereunder or under the Fee Letter
directly to the applicable Investor and for all purposes shall deal directly
with the Investors.  After any retiring Liquidity Agent's resignation hereunder
as Liquidity Agent, the provisions of Articles VII and VIII shall inure to its
benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was
Liquidity Agent under this Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE XIVA

                          ASSIGNMENTS; PARTICIPATIONS

          Section 14.01A.  Assignments and Participations.
                           ------------------------------   

          (a) Each Investor may upon at least thirty (30) days' written notice
to VFCC, the Deal Agent, the Liquidity Agent and S&P and Moody's, assign to one
or more banks or other entities all or a portion of its rights and obligations
under this Agreement; provided however, that (i) each such assignment shall be
                      -------- -------                                        
of a constant, and not a varying percentage of all of the assigning Investor's
rights and obligations under this Agreement, (ii) the amount of the Commitment
of the assigning Investor being assigned pursuant to each such assignment
(determined as of the date of the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such
assignment) shall in no event be less than the lesser of (A) $10,000,000 or an
integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess of that amount and (B) the full amount
of the assigning Investor's Commitment, (iii) each such assignment shall be to
an Eligible Assignee, (iv) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and
deliver to the Deal Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register, an
Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of
$5,000 or such lesser amount as shall be approved by the Deal Agent, (v) the
parties to each such assignment shall have agreed to reimburse the Deal Agent,
the Liquidity Agent and VFCC for all fees, costs and expenses (including,
without limitation, the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel
for each of the Deal Agent, the Liquidity Agent and VFCC) incurred by the Deal
Agent, the Liquidity Agent and VFCC, respectively, in connection with such
assignment and (vi) the Borrower shall have consented to such assignment, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, and provided further that upon the
                                                -------- -------              
effective date of such assignment the provisions of Section 3.03(f) of the
Administration Agreement shall be satisfied.  Upon such execution, delivery and
acceptance by the Deal Agent and the Liquidity Agent and the recording by the
Deal Agent, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and
Acceptance, which effective date shall be the date of acceptance thereof by the
Deal Agent and the Liquidity Agent, unless a later date is specified therein,
(i) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent that
rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such
Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of an Investor
hereunder and (ii) the Investor assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that
rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such
Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its
obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and
Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Investor's
rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Investor shall cease to be a
party hereto).

          (b) By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the
Investor assignor thereunder and the assignee thereunder confirm to and agree
with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) other than as
provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, such assigning Investor makes no
representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any
statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this
Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness,
sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document
furnished pursuant hereto; (ii) such assigning Investor makes no representation
or warranty and assumes no responsibility with 

                                      -72-
<PAGE>
 
respect to the financial condition of VFCC or the performance or observance by
VFCC of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or
document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) such assignee confirms that it has
received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of such financial
statements and other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to
make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and
Acceptance; (iv) such assignee will, independently and without reliance upon the
Deal Agent or the Liquidity Agent, such assigning Investor or any other Investor
and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the
time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action
under this Agreement; (v) such assigning Investor and such assignee confirm that
such assignee is an Eligible Assignee; (vi) such assignee appoints and
authorizes each of the Deal Agent and the Liquidity Agent to take such action as
agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are
delegated to such agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are
reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will
perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms
of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as an Investor.

          (c) The Deal Agent shall maintain at its address referred to herein a
copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it and a
register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Investors and the
Commitment of, and the principal amount of, each Advance by each Investor from
time to time (the "Register").  The entries in the Register shall be conclusive
                   --------                                                    
and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and VFCC, the Borrower and
the Investors may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as an
Investor hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement.  The Register shall be
available for inspection by VFCC, the Liquidity Agent or any Investor at any
reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.

          (d) Subject to the provisions of Section 14.01(a), upon its receipt of
an Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Investor and an assignee,
the Deal Agent and the Liquidity Agent shall each, if such Assignment and
Acceptance has been completed and is in substantially the form of Exhibit A to
                                                                  ---------   
the Liquidity Purchase Agreement, accept such Assignment and Acceptance, and the
Deal Agent shall then (i) record the information contained therein in the
Register and (ii) give prompt notice thereof to VFCC.

          (e) Each Investor may sell participations to one or more banks or
other entities in or to all or a portion of its rights and obligations under
this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its
Commitment and each Advance made by it); provided, however, that (i) such
                                         --------  -------               
Investor's obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, its
Commitment hereunder) shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Investor shall remain
solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such
obligations and (iii) the Deal Agent and the other Investors shall continue to
deal solely and directly with such Investor in connection with such Investor's
rights and obligations under this Agreement, and provided further that the Deal
                                                 -------- -------              
Agent shall have confirmed that upon the effective date of such participation
the provisions of Section 3.3(f) of the Administration Agreement shall be
satisfied.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, each participant
shall have the rights of an Investor (including any right to receive payment)
under Sections 2.10 and 2.12; provided, however, that no participant shall be
                              --------  -------                              
entitled to receive payment under either such Section in excess of the amount
that would have been payable under such Section by the Borrower to the Investor
granting its participation had such participation not been granted, and no
Investor granting a participation shall be entitled to receive payment under
either such Section in an amount which exceeds the sum of (i) the amount to
which such Investor is entitled under such Section with respect to any portion
of any Advance made by such Investor which is not subject to any participation
plus (ii) the aggregate amount to which its participants are entitled under such
- ----                                                                            
Sections with respect to the amounts of their respective participations.  With
respect to any participation described in this Section 14.01A(e), the
participant's rights as set forth in the agreement between such participant and
the applicable Investor to agree to or to restrict such Investor's ability to
agree to any modification, waiver or release of any of the terms of this
Agreement or any other Deal Document or to exercise or refrain from exercising
any powers or rights which such Investor may have under or in respect of this
Agreement or any other Deal Document shall be limited to the right to consent to
any of the matters set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement.

          (f) Each Investor may, in connection with any assignment or
participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this Section
9.1, disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed 

                                      -73-
<PAGE>
 
assignee or participant any information relating to the Borrower or VFCC
furnished to such Investor by or on behalf of the Borrower or VFCC.

          (g) In the event (i) an Investor ceases to qualify as an Eligible
Assignee, or (ii) an Investor makes demand for compensation pursuant to Section
2.10 or Section 2.12, VFCC may, and, upon the direction of the Borrower and
prior to the occurrence of a Termination Event, shall, in any such case,
notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, replace such Investor with
an Eligible Assignee by giving three Business Days' prior written notice to the
such Investor.  In the event of the replacement of an Investor, such Investor
agrees (i) to assign all of its rights and obligations hereunder to an Eligible
Assignee selected by VFCC upon payment to such Investor of the amount of such
Investor's Advances together with any accrued and unpaid Daily Yield thereon,
all accrued and unpaid commitment fees owing to such Investor and all other
amounts owing to such Investor hereunder and (ii) to execute and deliver an
Assignment and Acceptance and such other documents evidencing such assignment as
shall be necessary or reasonably requested by VFCC or the Deal Agent.  In the
event that any Investor ceases to qualify as an Eligible Assignee, such affected
Investor agrees (1) to give the Deal Agent, the Borrower and VFCC prompt written
notice thereof and (2) subject to the following proviso, to reimburse the Deal
Agent, the Liquidity Agent, the Borrower, VFCC and the relevant assignee for all
fees, costs and expenses (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and
out-of-pocket expenses of counsel for each of the Deal Agent, the Liquidity
Agent, the Borrower and VFCC and such assignee) incurred by the Deal Agent, the
Liquidity Agent, the Borrower, VFCC and such assignee, respectively, in
connection with any assignment made pursuant to this Section 14.01(g) by such
affected Investor; provided, however, that such affected Investor's liability
                   --------  -------                                         
for such costs, fees and expenses shall be limited to the amount of any up-front
fees paid to such affected Investor at the time that it became a party to this
Agreement.

          (h) Nothing herein shall prohibit any Investor from pledging or
assigning as collateral any of its rights under this Agreement to any Federal
Reserve Bank in accordance with applicable law and any such pledge or collateral
assignment may be made without compliance with this Section.

                                  ARTICLE XIV

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

          Section 14.01.    Notices, etc.
                            -------------

          All notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall,
unless otherwise stated herein, be in writing (including telex communication and
communication by facsimile copy) and mailed, telexed, transmitted or delivered,
as to each party hereto, at its address set forth on Schedule 1 hereto or
specified in such party's Assignment and Acceptance or at such other address as
shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties
hereto.  All such notices and communications shall be effective upon receipt, or
in the case of (a) notice by mail, five days after being deposited in the United
States mails, first class postage prepaid, (b) notice by telex, when telexed
against receipt of answer back, or (c) notice by facsimile copy, when verbal
communication of receipt is obtained, provided, however, that no notice or
                                      --------  -------                   
communication sent pursuant to Article II shall be effective until received.

          Section 14.02.  Binding Effect; Assignability.  This Agreement shall
                          -----------------------------                         
be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Servicer, the
Lenders, the Deal Agent, the Liquidity Agent and their respective permitted
successors and assigns.  Neither the Borrower nor the Servicer may assign any of
their rights and obligations hereunder or any interest herein without the prior
written consent of the Collateral Agent and the Deal Agent, which consent shall
not be unreasonably withheld, and unless each Rating Agency shall have confirmed
in writing to the Deal Agent that such assignment would not result in a
withdrawal or reduction of the then current rating by such Rating Agency of the
Commercial Paper.  The Lenders, the Collateral Agent, the Liquidity Agent and
the Deal Agent may, at any time, with the consent of the Borrower, which consent
shall not be unreasonably withheld, assign any of their respective rights and
obligations hereunder or interest herein to any Person.  Any such assignee may
further assign at any time its rights and obligations hereunder or interests
herein without the 

                                      -74-
<PAGE>
 
consent of the Borrower, the Parent or the Servicer. This Agreement shall create
and constitute the continuing obligations of the parties hereto in accordance
with its terms, and shall remain in full force and effect until its termination;
provided, that the rights and remedies with respect to any breach of any
- --------                                    
representation and warranty made by the Borrower or the Servicer pursuant to
Article IV and the indemnification and payment provisions of Article XII shall
be continuing and shall survive any termination of this Agreement.

          Section 14.03.  Costs, Expenses and Taxes.  (a) In addition to the
                          -------------------------                           
rights of Indemnification under Article XII hereof, the Borrower agrees to pay
upon demand all reasonable costs and expenses and taxes (excluding Income Taxes)
incurred by the Lenders, the Deal Agents or the Collateral Agent ("Other Costs")
                                                                   -----------  
in connection with the administration (including periodic auditing, Rating
Agency requirements, modification and amendment) of the Basic Documents and the
other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, the
reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel for the Lender, the Deal
Agent and the Collateral Agent with respect thereto and with respect to advising
the Lenders, the Deal Agent or the Collateral Agent as to its rights and
remedies under the Basic Documents and the other agreements executed pursuant
hereto.  The Borrower further agrees to pay within five Business Days after
demand all reasonable costs, counsel fees and expenses in connection with the
enforcement (whether through negotiation, legal proceedings or otherwise) of the
Basic Documents and the other agreements and documents to be delivered
hereunder, including, without limitation, reasonable counsel fees and expenses
in connection with the enforcement of rights under this Section 14.03 in
accordance with the provisions of Article VI to the extent that funds are
available therefor in accordance therewith.

          (b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay on demand any and all stamp,
sales, excise and other taxes and fees (subject to Section 3.01(k)) payable or
determined to be payable in connection with the execution, delivery, filing or
recording of the Basic Documents or the other agreements and documents to be
delivered hereunder, and agrees to indemnify and save each Indemnified Party
from and against any and all liabilities with respect to or resulting from any
delay in paying or omission to pay such taxes and fees.

          (c) In the event that the Deal Agent determines that any of the costs
referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) above were in any part incurred on behalf
of, or are attributable to the actions of, borrowers or sellers under Other
Funding Agreements, the Borrower shall have no liability hereunder in excess of
the Borrower's Share of such costs.

          (d) If the Borrower or the Servicer fails to perform any agreement or
obligation contained herein, any Lender, the Collateral Agent or the Deal Agent
may (but shall not be required to) itself perform, or cause performance of, such
agreement or obligation, and the expenses of such party incurred in connection
therewith shall be payable by the party which has failed to so perform upon such
party's demand therefor.

          Section 14.04.  Confidentiality.  Except to the extent otherwise
                          ---------------                                   
required by applicable law or as required to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission or unless the Deal Agent shall otherwise consent in writing,
the Borrower and the Servicer agree to maintain the confidentiality of this
Agreement (and all drafts hereof and documents ancillary thereto) in its
communications with third parties and otherwise and not to disclose, deliver or
otherwise make available to any third party (other than its directors, officers,
employees, accountants or counsel) the original or any copy of all or any part
of this Agreement (or any draft hereof and documents ancillary thereto).

          Section 14.05.  No Proceedings.  Each of the Borrower, the Deal
                          --------------                                   
Agent, the Liquidity Agent, the Servicer and the Lenders hereby agrees that it
will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against VFCC
or the Borrower any proceedings of the type referred to in the definition of
"Event of Bankruptcy" hereunder until one year and one day shall have elapsed
- --------------------                                                         
since the last day on which any Commercial Paper remained outstanding.

          Section 14.06.  Amendments; Waivers; Consents.  No modification,
                          -----------------------------                     
amendment or waiver of or with respect to any provision of the Basic Documents
or any other agreements, instruments and documents delivered pursuant hereto,
nor consent to any departure by the Borrower or the Servicer from any of the
terms or 

                                      -75-
<PAGE>
 
conditions thereof, shall be effective unless it shall be in writing and signed
by each of the parties hereto. Any waiver or consent shall be effective only in
the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. No consent to or
demand on the Borrower, the Parent or the Servicer in any case shall, in itself,
entitle it to any other consent or further notice or demand in similar or other
circumstances. The Basic Documents and the documents referred to therein embody
the entire agreement among the Borrower, the Lenders, the Deal Agent, the
Liquidity Agent, the Collateral Agent and the Servicer and supersede all prior
agreements and understandings relating to the subject hereof.

          Section 14.07.  GOVERNING LAW; CONSENT TO JURISDICTION; WAIVER OF JURY
                          ------------------------------------------------------
TRIAL.    (a) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
- -----                                                                         
WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK (WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW
PROVISIONS THEREOF).

          (b) EACH OF THE PARTIES TO THIS AGREEMENT HEREBY SUBMITS TO THE NON-
EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND THE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT COURT LOCATED IN THE BOROUGH OF MANHATTAN IN NEW YORK CITY, AND
EACH WAIVES PERSONAL SERVICE OF ANY AND ALL PROCESS UPON IT AND CONSENTS THAT
ALL SUCH SERVICE OF PROCESS BE MADE BY REGISTERED MAIL, AND SERVICE SO MADE
SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE COMPLETED FIVE DAYS AFTER THE SAME SHALL HAVE BEEN
DEPOSITED IN THE U.S. MAILS, POSTAGE PREPAID.  EACH OF THE PARTIES TO THIS
AGREEMENT HEREBY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION BASED ON FORUM NON CONVENIENS AND ANY
                                               --------------------        
OBJECTION TO VENUE OF ANY ACTION INSTITUTED HEREUNDER, AND CONSENTS TO THE
GRANTING OF SUCH LEGAL OR EQUITABLE RELIEF AS IS DEEMED APPROPRIATE BY THE
COURT.  NOTHING IN THIS SECTION 14.07(b) SHALL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY TO
THIS AGREEMENT TO SERVE LEGAL PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY LAW OR
AFFECT ANY PARTY'S RIGHT TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN THE COURTS OF ANY
OTHER JURISDICTION.

          (c) EACH OF THE PARTIES TO THIS AGREEMENT HEREBY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO
HAVE A JURY PARTICIPATE IN RESOLVING ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE ARISING OUT OF, CONNECTED WITH, RELATED TO OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THIS AGREEMENT.  INSTEAD, ANY DISPUTE RESOLVED IN COURT WILL BE RESOLVED IN
A BENCH TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY.

          Section 14.08.  Execution in Counterparts; Severability.  This
                          ---------------------------------------         
Agreement may be executed by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each
of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which
when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  In case any
provision in or obligation under this Agreement shall be invalid, illegal or
unenforceable in any jurisdiction, the validity, legality and enforceability of
the remaining provisions or obligations, or of such provision or obligation
shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby in such jurisdiction and
the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions or
obligations, or of such provision or obligation shall not be impaired thereby in
any other jurisdiction.

          Section 14.09.  Descriptive Headings.  The descriptive headings of
                          --------------------                                
the various sections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference
only and shall not be deemed to affect the meaning or construction of any of the
provisions hereof.

          Section 14.10.  Ratable Payments.  If any Lender, whether by setoff
                          ----------------                                     
or otherwise, has payment made to it with respect to any portion of the
Aggregate Unpaids owing to such Lender (other than payments received pursuant to
Sections 2.10, 12.01 or 12.02) in a greater proportion than that received by any
other Lender, such Lender agrees, promptly upon demand, to purchase for cash
without recourse or warranty a portion of the Aggregate Unpaids held by the
other Lenders so that after such purchase each Lender will hold its ratable
proportion of the Aggregate Unpaids; provided that if all or any portion of such
                                     --------                                   
excess amount is thereafter 

                                      -76-
<PAGE>
 
recovered from such Lender, such purchase shall be rescinded and the purchase
price restored to the extent of such recovery, but without interest.

          Section 14.11.  Recourse Against Certain Parties.
                          --------------------------------   

          No recourse under or with respect to any obligation, covenant or
agreement (including, without limitation, the payment of any fees or any other
obligations) of any Lender as contained in this Agreement or any other
agreement, instrument or document entered into by it pursuant hereto or in
connection herewith shall be had against any administrator of such Lender or any
incorporator, affiliate, stockholder, officer, employee or director of such
Lender or of any such administrator, as such, by the enforcement of any
assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding, by virtue of any statute or
otherwise; it being expressly agreed and understood that the agreements of such
           -- ----- --------- ------ --- ----------                            
Lender contained in this Agreement and all of the other agreements, instruments
and documents entered into by it pursuant hereto or in connection herewith are,
in each case, solely the corporate obligations of such Lender, provided that, in
                                                               -------------    
the case of VFCC, such liabilities shall be paid only after the repayment in
full of all Commercial Paper and all other liabilities contemplated in the
program documents with respect to VFCC, and that no personal liability
whatsoever shall attach to or be incurred by any administrator of such Lender or
any incorporator, stockholder, affiliate, officer, employee or director of such
Lender or of any such administrator, as such, or any other them, under or by
reason of any of the obligations, covenants or agreements of such Lender
contained in this Agreement or in any other such instruments, documents or
agreements, or which are implied therefrom, and that any and all personal
liability of every such administrator of such Lender and each incorporator,
stockholder, affiliate, officer, employee or director of such Lender or of any
such administrator, or any of them, for breaches by such Lender of any such
obligations, covenants or agreements, which liability may arise either at common
law or at equity, by statute or constitution, or otherwise, is hereby expressly
waived as a condition of and in consideration for the execution of this
Agreement.  The provisions of this Section 14.11 shall survive the termination
of this Agreement.

                                     -77-
<PAGE>
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Receivables Funding
and Servicing Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto
duty authorized, as of the date first above written.

THE SERVICER:                      CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC., as
                                   Servicer

                                   By ____________________________________
                                        Name:
                                        Title:

THE BORROWER:                      CPS WAREHOUSE CORP., as
                                   Borrower

                                   By ____________________________________
                                        Name:
                                        Title:

VFCC:                              VARIABLE FUNDING CAPITAL   
                                   CORPORATION, as a Lender

                                   By:  First Union Capital Markets Corp.,
                                        as attorney-in-fact

                                   By __________________________________
                                        Name:
                                        Title:

THE DEAL AGENT:                    FIRST UNION CAPITAL MARKETS CORP.

                                   By ____________________________________
                                        Name:
                                        Title:

                                     -78-
<PAGE>
 
THE LIQUIDITY AGENT:               FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK

                                   By ____________________________________
                                        Name:
                                        Title:

THE COLLATERAL AGENT:              FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK

                                   By ____________________________________
                                        Name:
                                        Title:

THE INVESTORS:                     FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK

                                   By ____________________________________
                                        Name:
                                        Title:

                                   Commitment:  $150,000,000

                                     -79-
<PAGE>
 
                      SCHEDULE 1 TO THE FUNDING AGREEMENT
                                        
                             ADDRESSES FOR NOTICE
                                        
CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES INC.
2 Ada, Suite 100
Irvine, California 92618
Attention:  Chief Financial Officer
Facsimile No.:  (714) 450-3951
Telephone No.: (714) 753-6816

CPS WAREHOUSE CORP.
2 Ada, Suite 252
Irvine, California 92618
Attention:  James L. Stock
Facsimile No.:  (714) 450-3972
Telephone No.: (714) 753-6935

VARIABLE FUNDING CAPITAL CORPORATION
c/o First Union Capital Markets Corp.
One First Union Center, TW-6
Charlotte, North Carolina  28288
Attention:  Mr. Darrell Baber
Facsimile  No.: (704) 383-6036
Confirmation No.: (704) 383-9343

          With a copy to:
          Lord Securities Corp.
          2 Wall Street, 19th Floor
          New York, New York  10005
          Attention:  Richard Taiano
          Facsimile No.: (212) 346-9012
          Confirmation No.:(212) 346-9006

FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK
One First Union Center, TW-6
Charlotte, North Carolina  28288
Attention:  Mr. Bill A. Shirley, Jr.
Facsimile No.:  (704) 374-6249
Confirmation No.:  (704) 374-4001

FIRST UNION CAPITAL MARKETS CORP.
One First Union Center, TW-6
Charlotte, North Carolina  28288
Attention:  Mr. Darrell Baber
Facsimile No.:  (704) 383-6036
Telephone No.:  (704) 383-9343


LINC ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LLC
One Selleck Street
Norwalk, Connecticut  06855
Attention:
Facsimile No.:
<PAGE>
 
Telephone No.:

SAMCO ACCEPTANCE CORP.
8150 North Central Expressway
Suite 600
Dallas, Texas 75206
Attention:
Facsimile No.:
Telephone No.
<PAGE>
 
                      EXHIBIT A TO THE FUNDING AGREEMENT

                 FORM OF BORROWER NOTICE - REQUEST FOR ADVANCE

                                 [Insert Date]

Variable Funding Capital Corporation
Attention:

First Union Capital Markets Corp.,
         as Deal Agent
Attention:

     Re:  Receivables Funding and Servicing Agreement,
          dated as of November 24, 1997

Ladies and Gentlemen:

          This notice is given pursuant to Section 2.02(a) of the Receivables
Funding and Servicing Agreement, dated as of November 24, 1997 (the "Funding
                                                                     -------
Agreement"), among CPS Warehouse Corp. (the "Borrower"), Variable Funding
- ---------                                    --------                    
Capital Corporation (the "Lender"), Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc. (the
                          ------                                          
"Parent"), First Union Capital Markets Corp., First Union National Bank and the
- -------                                                                        
investors party thereto.  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this notice
have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Funding Agreement.

          The Borrower hereby requests that the Lender make an Advance to the
Borrower on _______________, 199__ pursuant to Section 2.02(b) of the Funding
Agreement in the amount of $_______________ to be disbursed to the Borrower in
accordance with Section 2.02(b) of the Funding Agreement.  The Parent and the
Borrower hereby confirm that the conditions set forth in Section 3.02 of the
Funding Agreement for the making of such Advance have been met.

                              Very truly yours,

                              Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.

                              By:__________________________________
                                 Name:
                                 Title:

                              CPS Warehouse Corp.

                              By:__________________________________
                                 Name:
                                 Title:
<PAGE>
 
                FORM OF BORROWER NOTICE - REPAYMENT OF ADVANCE

                                 [Insert Date]

Variable Funding Capital Corporation
Attention:

First Union Capital Markets Corp.,
         as Deal Agent
Attention:

     Re:  Receivables Funding and Servicing Agreement,
          dated as of November 24, 1997

Ladies and Gentlemen:

          This notice is given pursuant to Section 2.02(a) of the Receivables
Funding and Servicing Agreement, dated as of November 24, 1997 (the "Funding
                                                                     -------
Agreement"), among CPS Warehouse Corp. (the "Borrower"), Variable Funding
- ---------                                    --------                    
Capital Corporation (the "Lender"), Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc. (the
                          ------                                          
"Parent"), First Union Capital Markets Corp. (the "Deal Agent"), First Union
- -------                                            ----------               
National Bank and the investors party thereto.  Capitalized terms used but not
defined in this notice have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Funding
Agreement.

          The Borrower hereby notifies the Lender and the Deal Agent that on
___________________, 19__ (which is a Business Day) the Borrower intends to
repay $_______________ of Advances currently outstanding to the Borrower
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Funding Agreement, including (i) all Yield
accrued on the principal amount of Advances being repaid through the date of
repayment, and (ii) any and all Breakage Costs payable under Section 2.11 of the
Funding Agreement.

                              Very truly yours,

                              CPS Warehouse Corp.

                              By:__________________________________
                                 Name:
                                 Title:

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
               FORM OF BORROWER NOTICE - REDUCTION OF COMMITMENT
                                        
                                 [Insert Date]

Variable Funding Capital Corporation
Attention:

First Union Capital Markets Corp.,
        as Deal Agent
Attention:

     Re:  Receivables Funding and Servicing Agreement,
          dated as of November 24, 1997

Ladies and Gentlemen:

          This notice is given pursuant to Section 2.02(a) of the Receivables
Funding and Servicing Agreement, dated as of November 24, 1997 (the "Funding
                                                                     -------
Agreement"), among CPS Warehouse Corp. (the "Borrower"), Variable Funding
- ---------                                    --------                    
Capital Corporation (the "Lender"), Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc. (the
                          ------                                          
"Parent"), First Union Capital Markets Corp. (the "Deal Agent"), First Union
- -------                                            ----------               
National Bank and the investors party thereto.  Capitalized terms used but not
defined in this notice have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Funding
Agreement.

          The Borrower hereby irrevocably notifies the Lender and the Deal Agent
pursuant to Section 2.03(a) of the Funding Agreement that on __________________,
199_ (which is a Business Day at least five (5) days after the date this notice
is given) the Maximum Facility Commitment shall be reduced to $______________.
After such reduction, the Maximum Facility Commitment will not be less than the
Advances Outstanding after giving effect to, and conditioned upon, the repayment
of Advances set forth in the attached notice.

                              Very truly yours,

                              CPS Warehouse Corp.

                              By:__________________________________
                                 Name:
                                 Title:

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
              FORM OF BORROWER NOTICE - TERMINATION OF COMMITMENT
                                 [Insert Date]

Variable Funding Capital Corporation
Attention:

First Union Capital Markets Corp.,
        as Deal Agent
Attention:

     Re:  Receivables Funding and Servicing Agreement,
          dated as of November 24, 1997

Ladies and Gentlemen:

          This notice is given pursuant to Section 2.02(a) of the Receivables
Funding and Servicing Agreement, dated as of November 24, 1997 (the "Funding
                                                                     -------
Agreement"), among CPS Warehouse Corp. (the "Borrower"), Variable Funding
- ---------                                    --------                    
Capital Corporation (the "Lender"), Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc. (the
                          ------                                          
"Parent"), First Union Capital Markets Corp. (the "Deal Agent"), First Union
- -------                                            ----------               
National Bank and the investors party thereto.  Capitalized terms used but not
defined in this notice have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Funding
Agreement.

          The Borrower hereby irrevocably notifies the Lender and the Deal Agent
pursuant to Section 2.03(a) of the Funding Agreement that on _________________,
199_ (which is a Business Day at least five (5) days after the date this notice
is given) the Maximum Facility Commitment shall be terminated.

                              Very truly yours,

                              CPS Warehouse Corp.

                              By:__________________________________
                                 Name:
                                 Title:

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
                        EXHIBIT B TO FUNDING AGREEMENT

                      FORM OF BORROWING BASE CERTIFICATE
<PAGE>
 
                        EXHIBIT C TO FUNDING AGREEMENT

                                 FORM OF NOTE

$[Insert Amount]                                                   [Insert Date]

          FOR VALUE RECEIVED, CPS Warehouse Corp., a Delaware corporation (the
"Borrower"), promises to pay to [Variable Funding Capital Corporation] (the
- ---------                                                                  
"Lender"), or registered assigns, the principal sum of
- -------                                               
_________________________________ DOLLARS ($_______________) or, if less, the
unpaid principal amount of the aggregate loans ("Advances") made by the Lender
                                                 --------                     
to the Borrower pursuant to the Funding Agreement (as defined below), as set
forth on the attached Schedule, on the dates specified in Section 2.06 of the
Funding Agreement, and to pay the Daily Yield (as defined in the Funding
Agreement) on the unpaid principal amount of this Note on each day that such
unpaid principal amount is outstanding on the dates specified in Section 2.07 of
the Funding Agreement.

          This Note is issued pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Receivables
Funding and Servicing Agreement, dated as of November 24, 1997 (the "Funding
                                                                     -------
Agreement"), among the Borrower, Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc., Variable
- ---------                                                                   
Funding Capital Corporation, First Union Capital Markets Corp., First Union
National Bank, and as collateral agent for the Secured Parties (as defined in
the Funding Agreement) and the Investors.  Capitalized terms used but not
defined in this Note are used with the meanings ascribed to them in the Funding
Agreement.

          Notwithstanding any other provisions contained in this Note, if at any
time the Daily Yield payable by the Borrower under this Note, when combined with
any and all other charges provided for in this Note, in the Funding Agreement or
in any other document (to the extent such other charges would constitute
interest for the purpose of any applicable law limiting interest that may be
charged on this Note), exceeds the highest rate of interest permissible under
applicable law (the "Maximum Lawful Rate"), then so long as the Maximum Lawful
                     -------------------                                      
Rate would be exceeded the rate of interest under this Note shall be equal to
the Maximum Lawful Rate.  If at any time thereafter the rate of interest payable
under this Note is less than the Maximum Lawful Rate, the Borrower shall
continue to pay interest under this Note at the Maximum Lawful Rate until such
time as the total interest paid by the Borrower is equal to the total interest
that would have been paid had applicable law not limited the interest rate
payable under this Note.  In no event shall the total interest received by the
Lender under this Note exceed the amount which the Lender could lawfully have
received had the interest due under this Note been calculated since the date of
this Note at the Maximum Lawful Rate.

          Payments of the principal of, premium, if any, and Daily Yield on this
Note shall be made by the Borrower to the holder hereof by wire transfer of
immediately available funds by 11:00 a.m. New York City time, in the manner and
at the address specified for such purpose as provided in Section 2.09 of the
Funding Agreement, or in such manner or at such other address as the holder of
this Note shall have specified in writing by the Borrower for such purpose,
without the presentation or surrender of this Note or the making of any notation
on this Note.

          If any payment under this Note falls due on a day which is not a
Business Day, then such due date shall be extended to the next succeeding
Business Day and Daily Yield shall be payable on any principal so extended.


and all notices of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Note.

          The holder hereof may, as provided in Sections 14.01A and 14.02 of the
Funding Agreement, sell, assign, transfer, negotiate, grant participations in or
otherwise dispose of all or any portion of this Note and the indebtedness
evidenced by the Note.
<PAGE>
 
          This Note is secured by the security interests granted to the Lender
pursuant to Section 8.01 of the Funding Agreement, the holder of this Note is
entitled to the benefits of the Funding Agreement and may enforce the agreements
of the Borrower contained in the Funding Agreement and exercise the remedies
provided for by, or otherwise available in respect of, the Funding Agreement,
all in accordance with the terms of the Funding Agreement.  If a Termination
Event shall occur and be continuing, the unpaid balance of the principal of this
Note, together with accrued Daily Yield, may be declared and become due and
payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Funding Agreement.

          THIS NOTE IS MADE AND DELIVERED IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK AND SHALL BE
GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS (WITHOUT
APPLICATION OF ITS CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISIONS) OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower has caused this Note to be signed and
delivered by its duly authorized officer as of the date set forth above.

                              CPS Warehouse Corp.

                              By:__________________________________
                                 Name:
                                 Title:

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
                           Form of Schedule to Note

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Date of             Principal           Principal           Outstanding
Advance or          Amount of           Amount of           Principal
Repayment           Advance*            Repayment           Amount
- ----------          ---------           ---------           ------
<S>                 <C>                 <C>                 <C> 
</TABLE>

________________________

*    The aggregate principal amount of all Advances among all Lenders may not
     exceed the Maximum Facility Amount.

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
                        EXHIBIT D TO FUNDING AGREEMENT

                FORM OF OFFICER'S CERTIFICATE AS TO INSOLVENCY



                        EXHIBIT E TO FUNDING AGREEMENT

                   FORM OF OFFICER'S CERTIFICATE OF BORROWER


                        EXHIBIT F TO FUNDING AGREEMENT

                   FORM OF OFFICER'S CERTIFICATE OF SERVICER
<PAGE>
 
                        EXHIBIT G TO FUNDING AGREEMENT

                            FORM OF MONTHLY REPORT

                    FINANCIAL COVENANTS/TERMINATION EVENTS

                       CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.

                     For the Month of __________________.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
               Document                                                 Actual
               Reference      Covenant                 Covenant Level   Amount
               ---------      --------                 --------------   ------
<S>            <C>            <C>                      <C>              <C>
I.   Servicer    7.06(a)      Net Worth                                 ______
                 7.06(b)      Interest Coverage Ratio                   ______
                 7.06(c)      Debt Ratio                                ______

II.  Borrower    5.01(h)      Consolidated Net Worth                    ______
                              Percentage               
                 9.01(i)      Default Rate                              ______
                 9.01(j)      Delinquency Rate                          ______
                 9.01(x)      Weighted average Net                      ______
                              Loss Rate
</TABLE>
<PAGE>
 
                        EXHIBIT H TO FUNDING AGREEMENT

                               TRACKING REPORTS

          Report                                            Frequency
          ------                                            ---------
          Borrowing Base Certificate                        Each Advance Date
          Discount Report Summary                           Monthly
          Trial Balance of Contracts                        Monthly
          Gross Delinquency Summary Report                  Monthly
          Loans Paid Off During Month                       Monthly
          Loans Charged-Off During Month                    Monthly
          Monthly Transaction Report                        Monthly
          Delinquency Detail Report                         Monthly

               Borrowing Base Certificate shall be provided to the Deal Agent in
accordance with the terms of the Funding Agreement  Within ____ Business Days
after the end of each month, the Borrower shall deliver to the Deal Agent the
Monthly Report and the above monthly reports together with a certificate of the
chief executive officer, the chief financial officer or the chief accounting
officer of the Servicer, certifying as to the completeness and accuracy of the
above reports.  The Borrower shall deliver to the Deal Agent, no later than the
____ Business Day following each month an up-to-date master file back-up tape in
a form usable by Deal Agent's computer, which contains original Contract
information and current Contract status information mutually determined by the
Collateral Agent and the Borrower.
<PAGE>
 
                        EXHIBIT I TO FUNDING AGREEMENT

                           FORM OF LIST OF CONTRACTS


             [To be provided by Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.]
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.15
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>RECEIVABLES AGREEMENT - DATED 11-24-97
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.15

     Receivables Transfer Agreement, dated as of November 24, 1997 (this
"Agreement"), between CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC. (the "Company"), a
 ---------                                                    -------
California corporation, and CPS WAREHOUSE CORP., a Delaware corporation ("CWC").
                                                                          ---   

                             W I T N E S S E T H:
                             - - - - - - - - - - 

     WHEREAS, CWC is an Affiliate of the Company;

     WHEREAS, CWC has been formed for the sole purpose of purchasing, and
acquiring by capital contribution, and financing such purchases by borrowing
funds from Variable Funding Capital  Corporation ("VFCC") and granting to the
                                                   ----                      
Lenders (as defined in the within-mentioned Funding Agreement) a security
interest in, certain Receivables originated by the Company; and

     WHEREAS, the Company intends to sell, or otherwise contribute, and CWC
intends to purchase, or otherwise have contributed to it, such Receivables, from
time to time, as described herein;

     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I

                                  DEFINITIONS

     SECTION 1.01.  Definitions and Conventions.  Unless otherwise defined
                    ---------------------------                           
herein, all capitalized terms shall have the meanings set forth in the Funding
Agreement.  In addition, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

     "Accumulated Funding Deficiency" shall have the meaning provided in Section
      ------------------------------                                            
412 of the Code and Section 302 of ERISA, whether or not waived.

     "Agreement" means this Receivables Transfer Agreement between the Company
      ---------                                                               
and CWC.

     "Allocation Formula" has the meaning set forth the Consent of General
      ------------------                                                  
Electric Capital Corporation and Redwood Receivables Corporation dated as of
November 24, 1997.

     "Annual Percentage Rate"  The annual rate of interest applicable to each
      ----------------------                                                 
Contract, as disclosed therein.

     "Assignment" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(a).
      ----------                                               

     "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, including, unless the
      ----                                                                
context otherwise requires, the rules and regulations thereunder, as amended
from time to time.

     "Commonly Controlled Entity" means the Company and any entity, whether or
      --------------------------                                              
not incorporated, affiliated with the Company pursuant to Section 414(b), (c),
(m) or (o) of the Code.

     "Company" means Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc., as the transferor and
      -------                                                                
seller of Receivables under this Agreement.

     "Contributed Receivable" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(b).
      ----------------------                                               

     "CWC" means CPS Warehouse Corp., as the purchaser and transferee of
      ---                                                               
Receivables under this Agreement.

                                      -1-
<PAGE>
 
     "CWC Secured Obligations" means all obligations of every nature of CWC
      -----------------------                                              
(other than to the Company or Servicer), now or hereafter existing, under the
Funding Agreement and any promissory note or other document or instrument
delivered pursuant to such documents, and all amendments, extensions or renewals
thereof, whether for principal, interest, fees, expenses or otherwise, whether
now existing or hereafter arising, voluntary or involuntary, whether or not
jointly owed with others, direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, liquidated
or unliquidated, and whether or not from time to time decreased or extinguished
and later increased, created or incurred and all or any portion of such
obligations that are paid, to the extent all or any part of such payment is
avoided or recovered directly or indirectly from VFCC, the Deal Agent or the
Collateral Agent as a preference, fraudulent transfer or otherwise.

     "Disposition Participant" means with respect to a Disposition, the trustee,
      -----------------------                                                   
custodian, the rating agencies, the underwriter, the placement agent, the credit
enhancer, whole-loan purchaser, purchaser of securities and/or any other party
necessary or, in the good faith belief of any of the foregoing, desirable to
effect a Disposition.

     "Eligible Originator" has the meaning set forth in the Funding Agreement.
      -------------------                                                     

     "Eligible Receivable" means each Receivable pursuant to a Contract
      -------------------                                              
delivered by the Company to or at the direction of CWC which is listed on a
Request Notice delivered to CWC at the same time, and which satisfies each of
the following requirements:

          (a) All of the representations and warranties in Section 4.01 are true
     with respect to, and all conditions precedent in Section 3.02 have been and
     continue to be met with respect to, the Contract, Financed Vehicle,
     Obligor, Required Obligor Insurance, and Optional Obligor Insurance.

          (b) The first Scheduled Payment is due within forty-five (45) days
     after the date of the Contract and the Contract Date is within five (5)
     days of the delivery of the Financed Vehicle.

          (c) The Contract has a fixed APR and the Finance Charge was computed
     using a fixed rate.

          (d) The initial term of the Contract does not exceed sixty (60) months
     and the Schedule of Payments has equal monthly payments except for the
     final payment which must be within 5% of the other equal payments, the
     payment obligation is in Dollars, and at the time the Contract as delivered
     to the Custodian, there were at least twenty (20) remaining Scheduled
     Payments.

          (e) The Contract is for the absolute sale of the Financed Vehicle to
     the Obligor, and the Financed Vehicle is not on approval or subject to any
     agreement between the Obligor and the Dealer for the repurchase or return
     of the Financed Vehicle.

          (f) The Contract was selected in accordance with the Allocation
     Formula from new or used automobile or light truck installment sale
     contracts or promissory notes in the Company's portfolio utilizing no
     selection procedures adverse to CWC relative to similar new or used
     automobile or light truck installment sale contracts or promissory notes in
     the Company's Portfolio taken as a whole.

          (g) The Dealer has been paid all amounts due for the purchase of the
     Contract from the Dealer.

          (h) The Obligor is an Eligible Obligor.

          (i) The Contract contains the original signature of the Obligor and
     the Dealer.

          (j) The Contract is the only unsatisfied original executed Contract
     for the purchase of the Financed Vehicle and accurately reflects all of the
     actual terms and conditions of the Obligor's purchase of the Financed
     Vehicle.

                                      -2-
<PAGE>
 
          (k) Neither the Company's nor an Affiliate has made any agreement with
     the Obligor to reduce the amount owed on the Contract.

          (1) Neither the Company nor an Affiliate is required to perform any
     additional service for, or perform or incur any additional obligation to,
     the Obligor in order for the Company or CWC to enforce the Contract.

          (m) The Contract, at the time the Company purchased it, materially
     complied with the Credit and Collection Policies; or the Deal Agent
     approved any material deviation from the Credit and Collection Policies for
     that Contract in writing.

          (n) The Obligor's obligations under the Contract are secured by a
     validly perfected first priority security interest in the Financed Vehicle
     in favor of the Servicer as secured party and such security interest has
     been validly assigned to CWC under this Agreement.

          (o) The Contract has not been, nor is it designated to be, terminated,
     satisfied, canceled, subordinated or rescinded in whole or in part; nor has
     the Financed Vehicle been released, or designated for release, from the
     security interest granted by the Contract; and all of the holder's
     obligations under the Contract have been performed except those which arise
     subsequent to the delivery to the Deal Agent.

          (p) No provision of the Contract has been waived, extended, altered or
     modified in any respect except in accordance with the Credit and Collection
     Policies.

          (q) The day of the month that Scheduled Payments are due has not been
     changed from the original Schedule of Payments except for no more than one
     change which did not change the due date in a manner such that there was
     more than a thirty (30) day period for which no Scheduled Payment was due.

          (r) No claims of rescission, setoff, counterclaim, defense or other
     material disputes have been asserted with respect to the Contract or
     Financed Vehicle.

          (s) There are no unsatisfied liens or claims for taxes, labor,
     materials, fines, confiscation, or replevin relating to the Contract or
     Financed Vehicle.  There is no unsatisfied claim against the Obligor based
     on the operation or use of the Financed Vehicle.  All taxes due for the
     purchase, use and ownership of the Financed Vehicle have been paid.  All
     taxes due on the transfer of the Contract to CWC have been paid.

          (t) The Contract requires Required Obligor Insurance and the Servicer
     is a loss payee or insured under the Required Obligor Insurance.

          (u) The Company has not repossessed the Vehicle or commenced a
     replevin action or other lawsuit against the Obligor or Financed Vehicle.

          (v) The model year of the Financed Vehicle is in accordance with the
     Credit and Collection Policies at the time the Contract is delivered to the
     Custodian.

          (w) The obligation of the original Obligor has not been released or
     assumed by another Person unless the release or assumption was properly
     documented and the Deal Agent consents in writing to it for purposes of the
     Contract being an Eligible Contract.

          (x) The Obligor Documents exist and have been delivered to or at the
     direction of CWC in accordance with Section 2.03.

                                      -3-
<PAGE>
 
          (y)  As of the date of the initial transfer hereunder, with respect to
     such Eligible Receivable, there are not more than two Scheduled Payments
     (or any part thereof) due and unpaid, provided, that if the Obligors have
                                           --------                           
     paid more than 90% of the most overdue Scheduled Payments such Scheduled
     Payment shall be deemed paid for purposes hereof.

          (z)  The cash down payment has been paid in full by the Obligor in
     accordance with the Credit and Collection Policies.

     (aa) The Contract was purchased by an Eligible Originator from a Vehicle
Dealer in the ordinary course of the Vehicle Dealer's business (or, with
reference to Samco only, from a finance company in the ordinary course of the
finance company's business) within 60 days after the Contract Date.

          (bb) The first or second Scheduled Payment (or both) remain(s) unpaid
     more than thirty (30) days after its/their scheduled due date(s).

          (cc) The Amount Financed does not exceed one hundred fifty percent
     (150%) of the net cost, or value, if applicable, shown on the Vehicle
     Dealer Invoice.

          (dd) The Amount Financed on the Contract Date does not exceed $29,000
     and the Vehicle has no more than 85,000 miles on its odometer on the
     Contract Date.

          (ee) Not more than one hundred eighty (180) days has elapsed since the
     date the Contract was sold or contributed to CWC hereunder.

          (ff) On or before the date which is 120 days after the Contract Date,
     the original Certificate of Title or equivalent title documents issued by
     the relevant state motor vehicle authority, if applicable, shall be
     delivered to or at the direction of CWC in accordance with Section 2.03.

     "Funding Agreement" means the Receivables Funding and Servicing Agreement,
      -----------------                                                        
dated as of the date of this Agreement among CWC, VFCC, as Lender, the Company,
as Servicer, the Investors named therein, the Deal Agent and Liquidity Agent.

     "Indemnified Amounts" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01.
      -------------------                                            

     "Indemnified Party" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01.
      -----------------                                            

     "Multiemployer Plan" means a multiemployer plan (within the meaning of
      ------------------                                                   
Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA) in respect of which a Commonly Controlled Entity
makes contributions or has liability.

     "PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any successor
      ----                                                                 
agency, corporation or instrumentality of the United States to which the duties
and powers of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation are transferred.

     "Plan" means any Pension Plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) covered by
      ----                                                                     
Title IV of ERISA, which is maintained by a Commonly Controlled Entity or in
respect of which a Commonly Controlled Entity has liability.

     "Proceeds" means, with respect to any Receivable, whatever is receivable or
      --------                                                                  
received when such Receivable is sold, collected, exchanged or otherwise
disposed of, whether such disposition is voluntary or involuntary, and includes
all rights to payment, including returned premiums, with respect to any
insurance relating to such Receivable but excluding the Sale Price and the
Advances.

     "Rejected Amount" means, with respect to CWC, the amount of the capital
      ---------------                                                       
contribution which the Company is required to make to CWC (as determined by the
Deal Agent) as a result of breaches of 

                                      -4-
<PAGE>
 
representations and warranties with respect to Receivables sold or contributed
to CWC by the Company pursuant to this Agreement.

     "Reportable Event" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(b) of
      ----------------                                                         
ERISA or the regulations thereunder.

     "Requested Amount" means the amount which the Company wishes to receive
      ----------------                                                      
from the sale of Receivables on any Sale Date.

     "Request Notice" means a notice in the form of a computer print-out, tape
      --------------                                                          
or other form acceptable to CWC and the Deal Agent, which (a) contains a List of
Contracts identifying all Receivables to be sold or contributed on the
succeeding Sale Date by the Company to CWC, (b) sets forth the amount of
payments received on each Transferred Receivable since the prior Sale Date and
(c) sets forth the Requested Amount for the following Sale Date.

     "Request Notice Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(b).
      -------------------                                               

     "Sale" means any transfer, on any Sale Date, of Receivables from the
      ----                                                               
Company to CWC pursuant to this Agreement.

     "Sale Date" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(b).
      ---------                                               

     "Sale Price" means with respect to the Eligible Receivables to be sold by
      ----------                                                              
the Company to CWC on any day, price paid to the Vehicle Dealer with respect to
such Eligible Receivable, plus accrued interest at the Annual Percentage Rate.

     "Sold Receivable" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01(b).
      ---------------                                               

     "Transferred Receivable" means any Receivable that is a Contributed
      ----------------------                                            
Receivable or a Sold Receivable.

     "Underfunded Plan" means any Plan that has an Underfunding.
      ----------------                                          

     "Underfunding" means, with respect to any Plan, the excess, if any, of (a)
      ------------                                                             
the present value of all benefits under the Plan (based on the assumptions used
to fund the Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code) as of the most recent
valuation date over (b) the fair market value of the assets of such Plan as of
such valuation date.

     SECTION 1.02.  Other Terms and Interpretation.  All accounting terms not
                    ------------------------------                           
specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with GAAP.  All
terms used in Article 9 of the UCC of the State of New York, and not
specifically defined herein, are used herein as defined in such Article 9.  All
hourly references herein shall refer to New York City time.  Except as otherwise
indicated, all agreements defined in this Agreement refer to the same as from
time to time amended or supplemented or as the terms of such agreements are
waived or modified in accordance with their terms.

                                  ARTICLE II

                           TRANSFERS OF RECEIVABLES

     SECTION 2.01.  Agreement to Transfer.  (a) On the terms and conditions of
                    ---------------------                                     
this Agreement until the Commitment Termination Date, on and after the date of
this Agreement, the Company agrees to make available for sale or, at its option,
to contribute to CWC Eligible Receivables in accordance with the Allocation
Formula originated by the Eligible Originators and deliver the appropriate
Obligor Delivery Documents to or at the direction of CWC.  To the extent CWC has
or is able to obtain sufficient funds for the purchase thereof, CWC agrees to
purchase such Eligible Receivables offered for sale by Parent.  On or before the
Effective Date, the 

                                      -5-
<PAGE>
 
Company and CWC shall enter into a Certificate of Assignment substantially in
the form of Exhibit 1 hereto ("Assignment").
                               ----------   

          (b) The Company shall, on the Effective Date and on a date occurring
     no less frequently than weekly thereafter (each a "Request Notice Date"),
                                                        -------------------   
     deliver to CWC and the Custodian a Request Notice identifying (i) all
     outstanding Receivables originated and owned by the Company through such
     date, (ii) at its option, a certain number of such Eligible Receivables as
     contributed to CWC (the "Contributed Receivables"), and (iii) to the extent
                              -----------------------                           
     CWC has available funds to pay the Sale Price thereof, as purchased and
     sold all other Eligible Receivables not previously identified as purchased
     and sold or contributed (the "Sold Receivables"), in each case in
                                   ----------------                   
     accordance with the procedures described in this Section 2.01(b).  No later
     than the following Business Day (the "Sale Date"), CWC and the Company
                                           ---------                       
     shall identify Eligible Receivables designated in such Request Notice
     arising since the last Sale Date which are to be purchased and sold on such
     Sale Date.  Each such identification shall be made as of the opening of
     business of the Servicer on each Sale Date.

          (c) The price paid for such Sold Receivables shall be the Sale Price.
     Such Sale Price shall be paid by means of an immediate cash payment to the
     Company.  On each Sale Date the Sold Receivables and Contributed
     Receivables shall be assigned, and on such Sale Date CWC shall pay the Sale
     Price for such Sold Receivables.  The portion of the Sale Price which is
     immediately payable in cash shall be payable by wire transfer on the Sale
     Date to an account designated by the Company (and approved by the Deal
     Agent) on or before the Sale Date.

          (d) On and after each Sale Date hereunder, CWC shall own the Sold
     Receivables and the Contributed Receivables which have been (assuming
     compliance with the terms hereof) identified as being transferred to CWC
     under this Section 2.01 and the Company shall not take any action
     inconsistent with such ownership and shall not claim any ownership interest
     in any such Transferred Receivable.

          (e) Until the occurrence of an Event of Servicer Termination or a
     resignation pursuant to the Funding Agreement, the Company, as Servicer,
     shall conduct the servicing, administration and collection of such
     Transferred Receivables and shall take, or cause to be taken, all such
     actions as may be necessary or advisable to service, administer and collect
     such Transferred Receivable, from time to time, all in accordance with (i)
     the terms of the Funding Agreement, (ii) customary and prudent servicing
     procedures for trade receivables of a similar type and (iii) all applicable
     laws, rules and regulations.  Documents relating to Transferred Receivables
     shall be held in trust by the Company, as Servicer, for the benefit of CWC
     and its assignees as the owners thereof, and possession of any incident
     relating to the Transferred Receivables and Contracts so retained is for
     the sole purpose of facilitating the servicing of the Transferred
     Receivables.  Such retention and possession thereof is at the will of CWC
     and its assignees and in a custodial capacity for their benefit only.

     SECTION 2.02.  Grant of Security Interest.  It is the intention of the
                    --------------------------                             
parties hereto that each transfer of Transferred Receivables to be made
hereunder shall constitute a purchase and sale or capital contribution and not a
loan.  In the event, however, that a court of competent jurisdiction is to hold
that any transaction provided for hereby constitutes a loan and not a purchase
and sale or capital contribution, it is the intention of the parties hereto that
this Agreement shall constitute a security agreement under applicable law and
that the Company shall be deemed to have granted, and the Company does hereby
grant, to CWC a first priority security interest in all of the Company's right,
title and interest in, to and under the Transferred Receivables, all payments of
principal, interest, fees, charges and indemnities on or under such Transferred
Receivables and all Proceeds of any such Transferred Receivables.

     SECTION 2.03.  Delivery of Obligor Documents.  (a) On or before each Sale
                    -----------------------------                             
Date, the Company shall deliver to or at the direction of CWC the Obligor
Delivery Documents relating to the Transferred Receivables on such Sale Date.

                                      -6-
<PAGE>
 
          (b) On or before the date which is 120 days after the Contract Date,
     the Company shall deliver to or at the direction of CWC the original
     Certificate of Title or equivalent title documents issued by the relevant
     state motor vehicle authority, if applicable.

     SECTION 2.04.  Company to Facilitate Dispositions of Transferred
                    -------------------------------------------------
Receivables.  In consideration of the Sale Price and other consideration
- -----------                                                             
received hereunder, in the case of the Sold Receivables, and as an additional
capital contribution, in the case of the Contributed Receivables, the Company
hereby agrees and covenants that in connection with each Disposition it shall:

          (i)    make such representations and warranties concerning the
     Transferred Receivables as of the "cutoff date" of the related Disposition
     to such Disposition Participants as may be necessary to effect the
     Disposition; provided, that the Company shall not be required to make any
     representations or warranties that would increase the scope or substance of
     such representations and warranties beyond the substance of those
     delineated on Exhibit 2 hereto;

          (ii)   negotiate in good faith with CWC and other Disposition
     Participants to provide such additional representations and warranties
     concerning the Transferred Receivables that may be required in the future
     by Disposition Participants; provided, however, that the Company shall not
     be required to make such representations and warranties concerning the
     Transferred Receivables that would materially increase, from the date of
     the Company's original transfer to CWC , the probability that it would be
     required to repurchase such Transferred Receivables under the related
     Disposition;

          (iii)  supply such information, opinions of counsel, letters from law
     and/or accounting firms and other documentation and certificates regarding
     the origination and servicing of the Transferred Receivables as CWC or any
     Disposition Participant shall reasonably request to effect a Disposition;

          (iv)   make itself available for and engage in good faith consultation
     with CWC and Disposition Participants concerning information to be
     contained in any document, agreement, private placement memorandum, or
     filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the Company
     or the Transferred Receivables in connection with a Disposition and shall
     use reasonable efforts to compile any information and prepare any reports
     and certificates, into a form, whether written or electronic, suitable for
     inclusion in such documentation;

          (v)    to implement the foregoing and to otherwise effect a
     Disposition, enter into insurance and indemnity servicing agreements,
     purchase agreements and any other documentation, all to the extent that the
     same are reasonably required of or deemed appropriate by CWC or a
     Disposition Participant in order to effect a Disposition; and

          (vi)   take such further actions as may be reasonably necessary to
     effect the foregoing, including without limitation, delivery of additional
     Obligor Documents to the Custodian for inclusion with the other Obligor
     Delivery Documents.

     provided, that notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary,
     --------                                                                  
(a) the Company shall have no liability for the Transferred Receivables arising
from or relating to the ongoing ability or willingness of Obligors to pay under
the Transferred Receivables; (b) none of the indemnities hereunder shall
constitute an unconditional guarantee by the Company of collectibility of the
Transferred Receivables; (c) the Company shall have no obligation with respect
to the inability or unwillingness of an Obligor to pay principal, interest or
other amount owing by such Obligor under the Transferred Receivables and (d) the
Company shall only be required to enter into documentation in connection with
Dispositions that is consistent with industry practice with respect to
Dispositions among similarly situated parties.

                                      -7-
<PAGE>
 
     SECTION 2.05.  Cooperation of CWC.  CWC  hereby agrees to make such
                    ------------------                                  
representations and warranties concerning the Transferred Receivables to the
Company as the Company may reasonably request in order for it to fulfill its
obligations under Section 2.04.

                                  ARTICLE III

                              CONDITIONS OF SALE

     SECTION 3.01.  Conditions Precedent to the Initial Sale.  The initial Sale
                    ----------------------------------------                   
hereunder is subject to the following conditions precedent:

          (a)  that CWC shall have received on or before the date of the initial
     Sale under this Agreement, each dated such date (unless otherwise
     indicated), in form and substance satisfactory to CWC and the Deal Agent:

               (i)    an Assignment executed by the Company;

               (ii)   each of the documents delivered by the Company pursuant to
     Section 3.01(d) of the Funding Agreement;

               (iii)  a certificate of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of
     the Company certifying the names and true signatures of the officers
     authorized on its behalf to sign this Agreement, the Assignment, and the
     other documents to be delivered by it hereunder (on which certificate CWC
     may conclusively rely until such time as CWC shall receive from the Company
     a revised certificate meeting the requirements of this Subsection (iii))
     and certifying that (A) the charter of the Company has not changed since
     the date of the delivery of the last certified charter delivered, (B) that
     the Company is qualified as a foreign corporation in all such jurisdictions
     and still in good standing in all jurisdictions in which the nature of its
     business required it to be qualified, (C) all representations and
     warranties made by the Company in this Agreement are true and correct in
     every particular and (D) no financing statements or other similar
     instruments and documents relating to the Receivables have been filed in
     any jurisdiction, other than those financing statements, other similar
     instruments and documents shown on the certified copies of the requests for
     information or copies (Form UCC-11)(or a similar search report certified by
     a party acceptable to the Deal Agent) provided pursuant to clause (vi);

               (iv)   copies of proper financing statements (Form UCC-1), dated
     on or prior to the date of the initial Sale, naming the Company as the
     assignor of the Transferred Receivables and CWC as assignee, or other
     similar instruments or documents, in form and substance sufficient for
     filing under the UCC or any comparable law of any and all jurisdictions as
     may be necessary or, in the opinion of the Deal Agent desirable to perfect
     CWC's ownership interest in all Transferred Receivables, in each case in
     which an interest may be assigned hereunder;

               (v)    copies of properly executed termination statements or
     statements of release (Form UCC-3) or other similar instruments or
     documents, if any, in form and substance satisfactory for filing under the
     UCC or any comparable law of any and all jurisdictions as may be necessary
     or, in the opinion of the Deal Agent, desirable to release all security
     interests and similar rights of any Person in the Transferred Receivables
     previously granted by the Company;

               (vi)   certified copies of requests for information or copies (or
     a similar search report certified by a party acceptable to the Deal Agent),
     dated a date reasonably near and prior to the date of the initial Sale,
     listing all effective financing statements and other similar instruments
     and documents including those referred to above in subsections (iv) and (v)
     which name the Company (under its present name and any previous name) as
     debtor and which are filed in the jurisdictions in which filings are to be
     made pursuant to such Subsections (iv) and (v) above, together with copies
     of such financing statements, none of which, except those filed pursuant to
     Subsections (iv) and (v),

                                      -8-
<PAGE>
 
     above, together with copies of such financing statements, none of which,
     except those filed pursuant to Subsections (iv) and (v), above, shall cover
     any Transferred Receivables; and

               (vii)  Any necessary third party consents to the closing of the
transactions contemplated hereby, in the form and substance satisfactory to the
Deal Agent.

     SECTION 3.02. Conditions Precedent to All Sales.  The obligation of CWC to
                   ---------------------------------                           
pay for each Sold Receivable on each Sale Date (including the initial Sale Date)
shall be subject to the further conditions precedent (any one of which can be
waived by CWC) that on such Sale Date:

          I.   The following statements shall be true (and delivery by the
     Company of a Request Notice and the acceptance by the Company of the Sale
     Price for any Receivables on any Sale Date shall constitute a
     representation and warranty by the Company that on such Sale Date such
     statements are true):

               A.   the representations and warranties of the Company contained
          in Section 4.01 shall be correct on and as of such Sale Date in all
          material respects (except with respect to Section 4.01(b) and those
          already so qualified which are true and correct in all respects),
          before and after giving effect to such Sale and to the application of
          proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date; and

               B.   no event has occurred, or would result from such Sale or
          from the application of the proceeds therefrom, which constitutes a
          Termination Event or would constitute a Termination Event but for the
          requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both;

               C.   the Company is in compliance with each of its covenants and
          other agreements set forth herein;

               D.   no event has occurred which constitutes an Event of Servicer
          Termination or would constitute an Event of Servicer Termination but
          for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both;

               E.   each Transferred Receivable designated as an Eligible
          Receivable is an Eligible Receivable; and

               F.   the Company shall have executed an Assignment of Insurance
          Interests substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit 3;

          II.  The Commitment Termination Date shall not have occurred;

          III. CWC shall have received an Assignment, dated the related Sale
Date, executed by the Company; and

          IV.  The Company shall have taken such other action, including
delivery of approvals, consents, opinions, documents and instruments to VFCC and
the Deal Agent, as the Deal Agent may reasonably request; and

          V.   There shall have been no material adverse change in the
condition (financial or otherwise), business, operations, results of operations
or properties of the Company since the preceding Sale.

                                      -9-
<PAGE>
 
                                  ARTICLE IV

                   REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS

     SECTION 4.01.  Representations and Warranties of the Company.  The Company
                    ---------------------------------------------              
represents and warrants to CWC as of each Sale Date, which representations and
warranties are or will be true and correct as of such Sale Date, that:

          I.   With respect to the Company:

               A.   the Company is a corporation duly organized, validly
          existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of
          incorporation and is duly qualified to do business and is in good
          standing in every jurisdiction in which the nature of its business
          requires it to be so qualified;

               B.   the Company has the power and authority to own, pledge,
          mortgage, operate and convey all of its properties and assets, to
          execute and deliver the Basic Documents and to perform the
          transactions contemplated hereby and thereby;

               C.   the Company is operated in such a manner that CWC would not
          be substantively consolidated in the estate of the Company (that is,
          such that the separate corporate existence of CWC and the Company
          would be disregarded), in the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency of
          the Company and in such regard:

                    (1)  CWC is a limited purpose corporation whose activities
               are restricted in its respective certificate of incorporation;

                    (2)  except as otherwise contemplated herein or in the other
               Basic Documents, neither the Company or any Affiliate of the
               Company is involved in the day-to-day management of CWC;

                    (3)  other than the purchase and contribution of
               Receivables, other transactions contemplated by this Agreement
               and the Funding Agreement, the payment of dividends and the
               return of capital, any lease or sub-lease of office space or
               equipment, any common officers or other employees, and the
               payment of Servicing Fees (as defined in the Funding Agreement)
               to the Servicer under the Funding Agreement, CWC does not engage
               in any intercorporate transactions with the Company or any
               Affiliate of the Company;

                    (4)  CWC maintains separate corporate records and books of
               account from the Company, holds regular corporate meetings and
               otherwise observes corporate formalities and has a separate
               business office from the Company;

                    (5)  all the financial statements and books and records of
               CWC and the Company reflect the respective separate corporate
               existence of CWC;

                    (6)  CWC maintains its assets separately from the assets of
               the Company and any other Affiliate of the Company (including
               through the maintenance of separate bank accounts), CWC's funds
               and assets, and records relating thereto, have not been, are not
               and will not be commingled with those of the Company or any other
               Affiliate of the Company and the separate creditors of CWC will
               be entitled to be satisfied out of CWC's assets prior to any
               value in CWC becoming available to CWC's equity holders;

                                      -10-
<PAGE>
 
                    (7)  neither the Company nor any Affiliate of the Company
               (A) pays CWC's expenses; (B) guarantees CWC's obligations, or (C)
               advances funds to CWC for the payment of expenses or otherwise;

                    (8)  all business correspondence of CWC and other
               communications are conducted in CWC's own name, on its own
               stationery and through a separately-listed telephone number;

                    (9)  CWC does not act as agent for the Company or of any of
               its Affiliates, but instead presents itself to the public as a
               corporation separate from the Company and its Affiliates,
               independently engaged in the business of purchasing and financing
               Receivables;

                    (10) CWC maintains a board of directors consisting of at
               least three directors, of which one such director is independent
               and at all times shall not be a shareholder, director, officer,
               employee or associate of the Company or any Affiliate of the
               Company (other than as a director of CWC and one or more other
               limited purpose subsidiaries of the Company) as provided in its
               certificate or articles of incorporation;

                    (11) CWC is solvent and will not be rendered insolvent by
               the transactions contemplated by any of this Agreement or the
               other Basic Documents and, after giving effect to such
               transactions, CWC will not be left with an unreasonably small
               amount of capital with which to engage in its business nor will
               CWC have intended to incur, or believe that it has incurred,
               debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature;

                    (12) the Company is the owner of 100% of the voting stock of
               CWC;

               D.   the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of
     this Agreement and the other Basic Documents and the transactions
     contemplated hereby and thereby (A) have been duly authorized by all
     necessary corporate or other action on the part of the Company, (B) do not
     contravene or cause the Company to be in default under (1) the Company's
     certificate or articles of incorporation or by-laws, (2) any contractual
     restriction with respect to any Debt of the Company or contained in any
     indenture, loan or credit agreement, lease, mortgage, security agreement,
     bond, note, or other agreement or instrument binding on or affecting the
     Company, its affiliates or their or its respective property or (3) any law,
     rule, regulation, order, writ, judgment, award, injunction or decree
     applicable to, binding on or affecting the Company, or its property and (C)
     do not result in or require the creation of any Adverse Claim upon or with
     respect to any of its properties (other than in favor of CWC with respect
     to this Agreement and VFCC and the Collateral Agent under the Funding
     Agreement);

               E.   this Agreement and the other Basic Documents have each been
     duly executed and delivered by the Company;

               F.   no approval or consent of, notice to, filing with or
     licenses, permits, qualifications or other action by any Governmental
     Authority or any other party, is required or necessary for the conduct of
     the Company's business as currently conducted and for the due execution,
     delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement or any of the
     other Basic Documents or for the perfection of or the exercise by CWC,
     VFCC, the Deal Agent or the Collateral Agent of any of their rights or
     remedies thereunder or hereunder, other than approvals, consents, notices,
     filings and other actions which have been obtained or made and complete
     copies of which have been provided to VFCC, the Deal Agent and the
     Collateral Agent;

                                      -11-
<PAGE>
 
               G.   each of this Agreement, each other Basic Document delivered
     by the Company and the respective obligations of the Company thereunder is
     the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against
     the Company in accordance with its respective terms subject to (i) any
     applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other
     similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to or affecting the
     enforceability of creditors' rights generally and (ii) general equitable
     principles, whether applied in a proceeding at law or in equity;

               H.   there is no pending or threatened, nor any reasonable basis
     for any, action, suit or proceeding against or affecting the Company, its
     officers or directors, or the property of the Company, in any court or
     tribunal, or before any arbitrator of any kind or before or by any
     Governmental Authority (A) asserting the invalidity of this Agreement or
     any of the other Basic Documents, (B) seeking to prevent the sale,
     transfer, pledge or contribution of any Receivable or the consummation of
     any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, (C) seeking any
     determination or ruling that might materially and adversely affect (1) the
     performance by CWC or the Company of its obligations under this Agreement
     or any of the other Basic Documents, (2) the validity or enforceability of
     this Agreement or any of the other Basic Documents, (3) the Transferred
     Receivables or the Contracts or the interests of CWC or VFCC therein, or
     (4) the federal income tax attributes of the contribution, sale or pledge
     of the Transferred Receivables or (D) asserting a claim for payment of
     money in excess of $500,000 (other than such judgments or orders in respect
     of which adequate insurance is maintained by the Company for the payment
     thereof);

          I.   no injunction, writ, restraining order or other order of any
nature adverse to the Company or the conduct of its business or which is
inconsistent with the due consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement or the other Basic Documents has been issued by a Governmental
Authority nor been sought by any Person;

          J.   the principal place of business and chief executive office of the
Company are located at the address of the Company referred to on the signature
page of this Agreement and there are now no, and during the past four months
there have not been any, other locations where the Company is located (as that
term is used in the UCC of the jurisdiction where such principal place of
business is located) or keeps Records;

          K.   the legal name of the Company is as set forth at the beginning of
this Agreement and the Company has not changed its name in the last six years,
and during such period the Company did not use, nor does the Parent now use, any
tradenames, fictitious names, assumed names or "doing business as" names.

          L.   the Company is solvent and will not become insolvent after giving
effect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Basic
Documents; the Company is paying its Debts as they mature; the Company has not
incurred Debts beyond its ability to pay as they mature; and the Company, after
giving effect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other
Basic Documents, will have an adequate amount of capital to conduct its business
in the foreseeable future;

          M.   for federal income tax, reporting and accounting purposes, the
Company will treat (A) the sale of each Sold Receivable sold or assigned
pursuant to this Agreement as a sale of, or absolute assignment of, its full
right, title and ownership interest in such Receivable to CWC and (B) the
contribution of each Contributed Receivable contributed pursuant to this
Agreement as an absolute conveyance and assignment of its full right, title and
interest in such Receivable to CWC (and those Receivables contributed to CWC by
the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall be accounted for as an increase in
the stated capital of CWC), and the 

                                      -12-
<PAGE>
 
Company has not in any other respect accounted for or treated the transfers of
Transferred Receivables contemplated by this Agreement or the other Basic
Documents;

     N.   the Company has complied in all material respects with all applicable
laws, rules, regulations, and orders with respect to it, its business and
properties and all Transferred Receivables and related Contracts (including
without limitation, all applicable environmental, health and safety
requirements) and all restrictions contained in any indenture, loan or credit
agreement, mortgage, security agreement, bond, note or other agreement or
instrument binding on or affecting the Company or its property, and has and
maintains all permits, licenses, authorizations, registrations, approvals and
consents of Governmental Authorities for (A) the activities and business of the
Company and each of its Subsidiaries as currently conducted and as proposed to
be conducted, (B) the ownership, use, operation and maintenance by each of them
of its properties, facilities and assets and (C) the performance by the Company
and CWC of this Agreement and the other Basic Documents (hereinafter referred to
collectively as "Governmental Consents"), with respect to which any
                 ---------------------  
noncompliance or failure to maintain such items would, separately or in the
aggregate, have a material adverse effect;

     O.   no practice, procedure or policy employed or proposed to be employed
by the Company in the conduct of its business violates any law, regulation,
judgment, agreement, order or decree applicable to the Company which, if
enforced, would have a material adverse effect on (1) the performance by CWC or
the Company of its obligations under this Agreement or any of the other Basic
Documents, (2) the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any of the
other Basic Documents, (3) the Transferred Receivables or the Contracts or the
interests of CWC or VFCC therein, or (4) the federal income tax attributes of
the contribution, sale or pledge of the Transferred Receivables;

     P.   without limiting the generality of the prior representation, no
condition exists or event has occurred which, in itself or with the giving of
notice or lapse of time or both, would result in the suspension, revocation,
impairment, forfeiture or non-renewal of any Governmental Consent applicable to
the Company or any Subsidiary except where such conditions or events would not,
separately or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on (1) the
performance by CWC or the Company of its obligations under this Agreement or any
of the other Basic Documents, (2) the validity or enforceability of this
Agreement or any of the other Basic Documents, (3) the Transferred Receivables
or the Contracts or the interests of CWC or VFCC therein, or (4) the federal
income tax attributes of the contribution, sale or pledge of the Transferred
Receivables;

     Q.   the Company has filed on a timely basis all tax returns (federal,
state and local) required to be filed and has paid or made adequate provisions
for the payment of all taxes, fees, assessments and other governmental charges
due from the Company, no tax lien or similar Adverse Claim has been filed, and
no claim is being asserted, with respect to any such tax, fee, assessment, or
other governmental charge. Any taxes, fees, assessments and other governmental
charges payable by the Company in connection with the execution and delivery of
this Agreement and the other Basic Documents and the transactions contemplated
hereby or thereby have been paid or shall have been paid when due, at or prior
to such Sale Date;

     R.   with respect to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, there has
occurred no event which has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse
effect on the Company's operations, including its ability to perform its
obligations under this Agreement or the other Basic Documents, as Company,
Servicer or otherwise;

     S.   the Company is licensed or otherwise has the lawful right to use all
patents, trademarks, servicemarks, tradenames, copyrights, technology, know-how
and processes used in 

                                      -13-
<PAGE>
 
     or necessary for the conduct of its business as currently conducted which
     are material to its financial condition, business, operations and assets,
     individually or taken as a whole;

          T.  (A) the consolidated balance sheets of the Company and its
     consolidated Subsidiaries for each of the last three fiscal years prior to
     the Balance Sheet Date are delivered prior to such Sale Date, and the
     related statements of income and shareholders' equity of the Company and
     its consolidated Subsidiaries for such fiscal years, certified without
     qualification by the Company's independent certified public accountants,
     copies of which have been furnished to VFCC and the Deal Agent, are
     complete and correct and fairly present the consolidated financial
     condition, business, operations, results of operations and assets of the
     Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the last day of such fiscal
     years and the consolidated results of the operations of the Company and its
     consolidated Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in
     accordance with GAAP, (B) the unaudited consolidated balance sheets and the
     related statements of income and shareholders' equity of the Company and
     its consolidated Subsidiaries for each fiscal quarter in the period since
     the most recent consolidated balance sheet and related statement of income
     and shareholders' equity referred to in clause (A) above and ended at least
     45 days prior to such Sale Date, copies of which have been furnished to
     VFCC and the Deal Agent, are complete and correct and fairly present the
     consolidated financial condition, business and operations of the Company
     and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the last day of such fiscal
     quarters and the consolidated results of the operations of the Company and
     its consolidated Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in
     accordance with GAAP, and (C) since the last date for which a balance sheet
     of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries has been delivered to VFCC
     and the Deal Agent, there has, except as already disclosed in writing to
     the Deal Agent, been no material adverse change in any such condition,
     business, operations or results of operations;

          U.  each Request Notice contains a complete and accurate list of all
     Transferred Receivables contributed or sold by the Company to CWC as of its
     date; V. no Obligor of an Eligible Receivable being sold on the related
     Sale Date has any claim of a material nature against or affecting the
     Company or the property of the Parent;


          V.  no Obligator of an Eligible Receivable being sold on the related
     Sale Date has any claim of a material nature against or affecting the
     Company or the property of the Parent;

          W.  the Company is in compliance with ERISA and has not incurred and
     does not expect to incur any liabilities (except for premium payments
     arising in the ordinary course of business) to the PBGC under ERISA;

          X.  each pension plan or profit sharing plan to which the Company or
     any Affiliate is a party has been administered and fully funded in
     accordance with the obligations of the Company under law and as set forth
     in such plan, and the Company has complied with the applicable provisions
     of ERISA in effect as of such Sale Date ;

          Y.  the Company has valid business reasons for selling or contributing
     its interests in the Transferred Receivables rather than obtaining a loan
     with the Transferred Receivables as collateral;

          Z.  the Company has not agreed to pay any fee or commission to any
     agent, broker, finder or other person for or on account of services
     rendered as a broker or finder in connection with this Agreement or the
     other Basic Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby
     which would give rise to any valid claim against CWC for any brokerage
     commission or finder's fee or like payment;

          AA. all information heretofore or hereafter furnished with respect to
     the Company to CWC, VFCC, Deal Agent or Collateral Agent in connection with
     any transaction contemplated by this Agreement or the other Basic Documents
     is and will be true and complete

                                      -14-
<PAGE>
 
     in all material respects and does not and will not omit to state a material
     fact necessary to make the statements contained herein or therein not
     misleading. With respect to the Company or CWC, there has occurred no event
     which has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on such
     entity;

          BB.  no part of the proceeds received by the Company or any Affiliate
     from the Sale Price will be used directly or indirectly for the purpose of
     purchasing or carrying, or for payment in full or in part of, Debt that was
     incurred for the purposes of purchasing or carrying any "margin stock," as
     such term is defined in (S) 221.3 of Regulation U of the Board of Governors
     of the Federal Reserve System;

          CC.  there are not now, nor will there be at any time in the future,
     any agreement or understanding between the Company and CWC (other than as
     expressly set forth herein) providing for the allocation or sharing of
     obligations to make payments or otherwise in respect of any taxes, fees,
     assessments or other governmental charges;

          DD.  no transaction contemplated by this Agreement or any of the other
     Basic Documents requires compliance with any bulk sales act or similar law;

          EE.  the Military Assistance Command or, if applicable, each financial
     institution making payments on behalf of any Allotment Obligor has been
     directed, and is required, to remit all payments with respect to the
     Transferred Receivable for deposit in the Lockbox Account;

          FF.  the Request Notice with respect to such Sale Date is accurate in
     all material respects;

          GG.  each purchase of Receivables under the Receivables Transfer
     Agreement will constitute (A) a "current transaction" within the meaning of
     Section 3(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and (B) a
     purchase or other acquisition of notes, drafts, acceptances, open accounts
     receivable or other obligations representing part or all of the sales price
     of merchandise, insurance or services within the meaning of Section 3(c)(5)
     of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended;

          HH.  (A) the Company is not a party to any indenture, loan or credit
     agreement or any lease or other agreement or instrument or subject to any
     charter or corporation restriction that is reasonably likely to have, and
     no provision of applicable law or governmental regulation is reasonably
     likely to have, a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or
     otherwise), business, operations, results of operations, or properties of
     the Company, or could have such an effect on the ability of the Company to
     carry out its obligations under this Agreement and the other Basic
     Documents to which the Company is a party and (B) the Company is not in
     default under or with respect to any contract, agreement, lease or other
     instrument to which the Company is a party and which is material to the
     Company's condition (financial or otherwise), business, operations, results
     of operations or properties, and the Company has not delivered or received
     any notice of default thereunder;

          II.  the Company is not an "investment company" or an "affiliated
     person" of, or "promoter" or "principal underwriter" for, an "investment
     company," as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940,
     as amended. The purchase or acquisition of the Transferred Receivables by
     CWC, the application of the proceeds and the consummation of the
     transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Basic Documents
     to which the Company is a party will not violate any provision of such Act
     or any rule, regulation or order issued by the Securities and Exchange
     Commission thereunder;

                                      -15-
<PAGE>
 
          JJ.  the bylaws or the articles of incorporation of the Company
     require it to maintain (A) books and records of account, and (B) minutes of
     the meetings and other proceedings of its shareholders and board of
     directors; and

          KK.  each of the representations and warranties of the Company
     contained in this Agreement and the other Basic Documents is true and
     correct in all material respects and the Company hereby makes each such
     representation and warranty to, and for the benefit of, the Collateral
     Agent, the Deal Agent and VFCC as if the same were set forth in full
     herein.

     II.  On each Sale Date, and as of the date of each Borrowing Base
Certificate delivered under the Funding Agreement with respect to each
Transferred Receivable:

          A.  such Receivable is an Eligible Receivable and is a receivable
     created by the Company in the ordinary course of its business in a current
     transaction;

          B.  such Receivable was created in accordance with and satisfies in
     all material respects all applicable requirements of (A) a Contract and (B)
     the Credit and Collection Policies;

          C.  a copy of any related Contract (if such contract exists in a
     reproducible form) to such Receivable to which the Company is a party has
     been delivered to the Deal Agent;

          D.  such Receivable represents the genuine, legal, valid and binding
     obligation in writing of the Obligor enforceable by the holder thereof in
     accordance with its terms, and neither such Receivable nor its related
     Contract has been satisfied, subordinated, rescinded or amended in any
     manner, subject to (A) any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency,
     reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect
     relating to or affecting the enforceability of creditors' rights generally
     and (B) general equitable principles, whether applied in a proceeding at
     law or in equity;

          E.  neither such Receivable nor its related Contract is or will be
     subject to any exercise of any right of rescission, set-off, recoupment,
     counterclaim or defense, whether arising out of transactions concerning the
     Receivable or otherwise;

          F.  prior to its sale or contribution to CWC such Receivable was owned
     by the Company free and clear of any Adverse Claim or Restrictions on
     Transferability, and the Company had the right to contribute, sell, assign
     and transfer the same and interests therein as contemplated under this
     Agreement and, upon such sale or contribution, CWC acquired good and
     marketable title to and a valid and the sole record and beneficial
     ownership interest in such Receivable, free and clear of any Adverse Claim
     and any other Restriction on Transferability;

          G.  this Agreement and the Assignment related to such Receivable
     constitute a valid sale, contribution, transfer, assignment, setover and
     conveyance to CWC of all right, title and interest of the Company in and to
     such Receivable;

          H.  such Receivable is entitled to be paid pursuant to the terms of
     the related Contract, has not been paid in full or been compromised,
     adjusted, extended, satisfied, subordinated, rescinded or modified, and is
     not subject to compromise, adjustment, extension, satisfaction,
     subordination, rescission, or modification by the Company;

          I.  the Company has submitted to the Obligor all necessary
     documentation for payment of such Receivable and has fulfilled all its
     other obligations in respect thereof;

          J.  any stated term of such Receivable is not greater than 60 months;

                                      -16-
<PAGE>
 
               K.  such Receivable is an "account" or "chattel paper" within the
          meaning of the UCC of the jurisdiction where the Company's chief
          executive office is located;

               L.  neither such Receivable nor its related Contract contravenes
          in any material respect any laws, rules or regulations applicable
          thereto (including, without limitation, laws, rules and regulations
          relating to usury, consumer protection, truth in lending, fair credit
          billing, fair credit reporting, equal credit opportunity, fair debt
          collection practices and privacy) and no party to such related
          Contract is in violation of any such law, rule or regulation in any
          material respect;

               M.  such Receivable does not arise from a transaction for which
          any additional performance by the Company or acceptance or other act
          of the Obligor remains to be performed as a condition to any Scheduled
          Payment on such Receivable;

               N.  there are no proceedings or investigations pending or
          threatened before any Governmental Authority (A) asserting the
          invalidity of such Receivable or such Contract, (B) asserting the
          bankruptcy or insolvency of the related Obligor, (C) seeking the
          payment of such Receivable or payment and performance of such Contract
          or (D) seeking any determination or ruling that might materially and
          adversely affect the validity or enforceability of such Receivable or
          such Contract;

               O.  as of the applicable date of transfer hereunder, no Obligor
          on such Receivable is bankrupt or insolvent, is unable to make payment
          of its obligations when due, is the debtor in a voluntary or
          involuntary bankruptcy proceeding, or is the subject of a comparable
          receivership or insolvency proceeding, other than Obligors under the
          protection of a bankruptcy court or receivership which has approved
          payment by any such Obligor of such Receivable;

               P.  the Company has no knowledge of any fact (including any
          defaults by the Obligor on any other accounts) which leads it or
          should have led it to expect that any Scheduled Payment on such
          Receivable will not be paid in full when due or to expect any other
          material adverse effect on (1) the performance by CWC or the Company
          of its obligations under this Agreement or any of the Basic Documents,
          (2) the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any of the
          Basic Documents, (3) the Transferred Receivables or the Contracts or
          the interests of CWC or VFCC therein, or (4) the federal income tax
          attributes of the contribution, sale or pledge of the Transferred
          Receivables; and

               Q.  there has been no material adverse change in the condition
          (financial or otherwise), business, operations, results of operations
          or properties of the Company since the Balance Sheet Date.

     It is understood and agreed that the representations and warranties
described in this Section 4.01 shall survive the sale or contribution of the
Transferred Receivables to CWC, any subsequent assignment of the Transferred
Receivables by CWC (including its grant of a first priority perfected security
interest in, to and under the Transferred Receivables, pursuant to the Funding
Agreement, in order to secure the due payment and performance by CWC of CWC
Secured Obligations), and the termination of this Agreement and the Funding
Agreement and shall continue so long as any Transferred Receivable shall remain
outstanding.

     SECTION 4.02.  Covenants of the Company.
                    ------------------------ 

     I.  Offices and Records.  The Company shall keep its chief place of 
         -------------------         
business and chief executive offices and the office where it keeps its Records
at the respective locations specified in Section 4.01(a)(x) or, upon thirty (30)
days prior written notice to CWC and the Collateral Agent, at such other
location in a jurisdiction where all action required by Section 4.02(f) shall
have been taken with respect to the Transferred Receivables. The Company shall,
for not less than three years or for such longer period as may be required by
law, from the

                                      -17-
<PAGE>
 
date on which any Transferred Receivable arose, maintain the Records with
respect to each Transferred Receivable, including records of all payments
received, credits granted and merchandise returned. The Company will permit
representatives of CWC, the Servicer, the Deal Agent or the Collateral Agent at
any time and from time to time during normal business hours, and at such times
outside of normal business hours as CWC, the Servicer, the Deal Agent or the
Collateral Agent shall reasonably request, (i) to inspect and make copies of and
abstracts from such records, and (ii) to visit the properties of the Company
utilized in connection with the collection, processing or servicing of the
Transferred Receivables for the purpose of examining such Records, and to
discuss matters relating to the Transferred Receivables or the Company's
performance under this Agreement or the affairs, finances and accounts of the
Company with any of its officers, directors, employees, representatives or
agents and with its independent certified accountants and advise such
accountants that CWC, the Deal Agent, the Servicer and the Collateral Agent have
been authorized to review and discuss with such accountants any and all
financial statements and other information of any kind that they may have with
respect to the Company and direct such accountants to comply with any request of
CWC, the Deal Agent, the Servicer or the Collateral Agent for such information
with any officer or employee of the Company having knowledge of such matters. In
connection therewith, CWC, the Deal Agent or the Collateral Agent may institute
procedures to permit it to confirm the Obligor outstanding balances in respect
of any Transferred Receivables. The Company agrees to render to CWC, the Deal
Agent and the Collateral Agent, at the Company's own cost and expense, such
clerical and other assistance as may be reasonably requested with regard to the
foregoing. If a Termination Event under the Funding Agreement shall have
occurred and be continuing, promptly upon request therefor, the Company shall
assist CWC in delivering to the Deal Agent records reflecting activity through
the close of business on the immediately preceding Business Day.

     II.  Collection of Transferred Receivables.  The Company will deposit or 
          -------------------------------------       
cause to be deposited in the Collection Account all cash, checks, money orders,
wire transfers or moneygrams or other Proceeds of Collateral received in respect
of Transferred Receivables within two Business Days of the receipt thereof.
Until so deposited, all such Proceeds shall be held in trust for the Collateral
Agent by the Company.

     III. Maintain Records of Transferred Receivables.  The Company as Servicer
          -------------------------------------------                          
shall, at its own cost and expense, maintain satisfactory and complete records
of the Transferred Receivables, including a record of all payments received and
all credits granted with respect to the Transferred Receivables and all other
dealings with the Transferred Receivables.  The Company as Servicer will mark
conspicuously with a legend, in form and substance satisfactory to the Deal
Agent, its records, computer tapes, computer disks and credit files pertaining
to the Transferred Receivables, and its file cabinets or other storage
facilities where it maintains information pertaining to the Transferred
Receivables, to evidence this Agreement, the transfers hereunder and that
ownership of each Transferred Receivable is held by CWC or its assignee.  Upon
the occurrence and during the continuation of a Termination Event, the Company
as Servicer shall (i) provide to the Deal Agent or its representatives with
access to, at any time on demand of the Deal Agent, all of the Company's
facilities, personnel, books and records pertaining to the Transferred
Receivables, including all Records, and (ii) allow the Deal Agent to occupy the
premises of the Company where such books and Records are maintained, and utilize
such premises, the equipment thereon and any personnel of the Company that
either such party may wish to employ to administer, service and collect the
Transferred Receivables.

     IV.  Compliance With Credit and Collection Policies.  The Company shall 
          ----------------------------------------------    
comply in all material respects with the Credit and Collection Policies with
regard to each Transferred Receivable and the related Contracts, and with the
terms of such Receivables and Contracts.

     V.   Notice of Adverse Claim.  The Company shall advise CWC, the Deal 
          -----------------------   
Agent and the Collateral Agent promptly, in reasonable detail, (i) of any
Adverse Claim known to it made or asserted against any of the Transferred
Receivables, (ii) of any determination that a Sold Receivable, or any other
Receivable designated as an Eligible Receivable in a Request Notice or
otherwise, was not an Eligible Receivable at such time and (iii) of the
occurrence of any event which would have a material adverse effect on the
aggregate value of the Transferred Receivables or on the validity of the
transfers in this Agreement.

                                      -18-
<PAGE>
 
     VI.    Further Assurances; Financing Statements.  (i) The Company agrees 
            ----------------------------------------     
that at any time and from time to time, at its expense, it shall promptly
execute and deliver all further instruments and documents, and take all further
action, that may be necessary or desirable or that CWC, the Deal Agent or the
Collateral Agent may reasonably request to perfect, preserve, continue and
maintain fully and protect the transfers made and the right, title and interests
(including any security interests) granted to CWC by this Agreement or to enable
CWC, the Deal Agent or the Collateral Agent to exercise and enforce its rights
and remedies under this Agreement or any of the Basic Documents with respect to
any Transferred Receivables. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
the Company shall execute and file such financing or continuation statements, or
amendments thereto, and such other instruments or notices as may be necessary or
desirable or that CWC, the Deal Agent or the Collateral Agent may request to
protect and preserve and perfect the transfers and security interests granted by
this Agreement, free and clear of all Adverse Claims and Restrictions on
Transferability. In addition, the Company and the Deal Agent agree to cooperate
with S&P and Moody's in connection with any review of the transactions
contemplated hereby or by the Basic Documents which may be undertaken by S&P and
Moody's after the date hereof.

            (ii) The Company hereby authorizes CWC and the Collateral Agent to
file one or more financing or continuation statements, and amendments thereto,
relating to all or any part of the Transferred Receivables without the signature
of the Company where permitted by law. A carbon, photographic or other
reproduction of this Agreement or any notice or financing statement covering the
Transferred Receivables or any part thereof shall be sufficient as a notice or
financing statement where permitted by law.

     VII.   Assignment.  The Company acknowledges and agrees that, pursuant to 
            ----------                  
the Funding Agreement, CWC may assign all of its right, title and interest in,
to and under the Transferred Receivables and its rights, title and interest
under this Agreement, including its right to exercise the remedies created by
Section 4.04 hereof to VFCC and the Collateral Agent. The Company agrees that,
upon such assignment, the assignee may enforce directly, without joinder of CWC,
the repurchase obligations of the Company set forth in Section 4.04 hereof with
respect to breaches of the representations and warranties or covenants set forth
in Section 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement.

     VIII.  Compliance With Agreements and Applicable Laws.  The Company shall
            ----------------------------------------------                    
perform each of its obligations under this Agreement and the other Basic
Documents and comply with all material requirements of any law, rule or
regulation applicable to it.

     IX.    Notice of Material Event.  The Company shall promptly inform CWC in 
            ------------------------         
writing of the occurrence of any of the following:

               A.  the submission of any claim or the initiation of any legal
            process, litigation or administrative or judicial investigation
            against the Company or with respect to or in connection with all or
            any portion of the Transferred Receivables, involving potential
            damages or penalties in an uninsured amount in excess of $100,000 in
            any one instance or $500,000 in the aggregate;

               B.  any change in the location of Company's principal office or
            any change in the location of the Company's books and records;

               C.  the occurrence of any Termination Event or event which, upon
            the giving of notice or the passage of time, or both, would become a
            Termination Event;

               D.  the commencement or threat of any rule making or disciplinary
            proceedings or any proceedings instituted by or against the Company
            in any federal, state or local court or before any governmental body
            or agency, or before any arbitration board, or the promulgation of
            any proceeding or any proposed or final rule which, if adversely
            determined, would have a material adverse effect with respect to the
            Company;

                                      -19-
<PAGE>
 
               E.  the commencement of any proceedings by or against the Company
            under any applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, liquidation,
            rehabilitation, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in
            effect or of any proceeding in which a receiver, liquidator,
            conservator, trustee or similar official shall have been, or may be,
            appointed or requested for the Company or any of its assets;

               F.  the receipt of notice that (A) the Company is being placed
            under regulatory supervision, (B) any license, permit, charter,
            registration or approval necessary for the conduct of the Company's
            business is to be, or may be, suspended or revoked, or (C) the
            Company is to cease and desist any practice, procedure or policy
            employed by the Company in the conduct of its business, and such
            cessation may have a material adverse effect with respect to the
            Company; or

               G.  any other event, circumstance or condition that has had, or
            has a material possibility of having, a material adverse effect in
            respect of the Company.

     X.     Maintenance of Licenses.  The Company shall maintain all licenses, 
            -----------------------       
permits, charters and registrations which are material to the conduct of its
business.
     
     XI.    Separate Identity.
            ----------------- 
               A.  The Company shall maintain corporate records and books of
            account separate from those of CWC.

               B.  The annual financial statements of the Company shall disclose
            the effects of the Company's transactions in accordance with GAAP
            and the annual financial statements of the Company shall disclose
            that the assets of CWC are not available to pay creditors of the
            Company or any other Affiliate of the Company.

               C.  The annual financial statements of the Company and its
            consolidated subsidiaries (including CWC) will contain footnotes or
            other information to the effect that with respect to CWC: (a) CWC's
            business consists of the purchase of the Receivables from the
            Company, (b) CWC is a separate corporate entity with its own
            separate creditors, which upon its liquidation will be entitled to
            be satisfied out of CWC's assets prior to any value in the Company
            becoming available to CWC's equity holders and (c) the Transferred
            Receivables have been sold or contributed to CWC.

               D.  The resolutions, agreements and other instruments underlying
            the transactions described in this Agreement shall be continuously
            maintained by the Company as official records.

               E.  The Company shall use its best efforts to maintain an arm's-
            length relationship with CWC and will not hold itself out as being
            liable for the debts of CWC.

               F.  The Company shall use its best efforts to keep its assets and
            its liabilities wholly separate from those of CWC.

               G.  The Company will conduct its business solely in its own name
            through its duly authorized officers or agents so as not to mislead
            others as to the identity of the Company. 

               H. The Company will use its best efforts to avoid the appearance
            of conducting business on behalf of CWC or that the assets of the
            Company are available to pay the creditors of CWC. 

                                      -20-
<PAGE>
 
               I.   The Company will cause operating expenses and liabilities of
            CWC to be paid from CWC's funds.

     XII.   ERISA. The Company shall give the Deal Agent prompt notice of each
            -----
of the following events (but in no event more than 30 days after the occurrence
of the event): (i) an Accumulated Funding Deficiency, (ii) the failure to make a
material required contribution to a Plan or Multiemployer Plan (but in no event
will a contribution failure sufficient to give rise to a lien under (S)302(f) of
ERISA be considered immaterial), (iii) a Reportable Event, (iv) any action by a
Commonly Controlled Entity to terminate any Plan or withdraw from any
Multiemployer Plan, (v) any action by the PBGC to terminate or appoint a trustee
to administer a Plan, (vi) the reorganization or insolvency of any Multiemployer
Plan and (vii) an aggregate Underfunding for all Underfunded Plans in excess of
$100,000.

     XIII.  Cooperation With Requests for Information or Documents. The Company
            ------------------------------------------------------
will cooperate fully with all reasonable requests of CWC regarding the provision
of any information or documents, necessary, including the provision of such
information or documents in electronic or machine-readable format, or desirable
to allow each of VFCC, the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent to carry out its
responsibilities under the Basic Documents.

     XIV.   Payment, Performance and Discharge of Obligations. The Company will
            -------------------------------------------------
pay, perform and discharge all of its obligations and liabilities, including,
without limitation, all taxes, assessments and governmental charges upon its
income and properties when due the non-payment, performance or discharge of
which would have a material adverse effect, unless and to the extent only that
such obligations, liabilities, taxes, assessments and governmental charges shall
be contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings and that, to the
extent required by GAAP, proper and adequate book reserves relating thereto are
established by the Company and then only to the extent that a bond is filed in
cases where the filing of a bond is necessary to avoid the creation of an
Adverse Claim against any of its properties.

     SECTION 4.03.  Negative Covenants of the Company.  The Company shall not,
                    ---------------------------------                         
without the written consent of CWC, the Deal Agent and the Collateral Agent:

     I.     sell, assign (by operation of law or otherwise) or otherwise dispose
of, or create or suffer to exist any Adverse Claim upon or with respect to, or
assign any right to receive income in respect of any Transferred Receivable or
related Contract with respect thereto, or upon or with respect to the account in
which any Collections of any Transferred Receivables are deposited;

     II.    extend, amend, forgive, discharge, compromise, cancel or otherwise
modify the terms of any Transferred Receivable, or amend, modify or waive any
term or condition of any Contract related thereto, except in compliance with the
Credit and Collection Policies;

     III.   make any change in its instructions to Obligors regarding payments
to be made to CWC or payments to be deposited to the account into which any
Collections in respect of any Transferred Receivables are deposited;

     IV.    merge with or into, consolidate with or into, convey, transfer,
lease or, otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets (whether
now owned or hereafter acquired) to, or acquire all or substantially all of the
assets or capital stock or other ownership interest of, any Person (whether in
one transaction or in a series of transactions), provided, however, that the
                                                 --------  -------
Company may, without the consent of the Deal Agent, invest not more than 25% of
its Net Worth to acquire all or substantially all of the assets or capital stock
or other ownership interest of another Person;

     V.     make statements or disclosures or prepare any financial statements
which shall account for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in any
manner other than as a sale or contribution of the Transferred Receivables to
CWC, or in any other respect account for or treat the transactions contemplated
hereby (including 

                                      -21-
<PAGE>
 
but not limited to, for accounting, tax and reporting purposes) in any manner
other than as a sale or absolute assignment of the Transferred Receivables;

     VI.    amend, supplement or otherwise modify its certificate of
incorporation or bylaws (or permit any of the foregoing);

     VII.   (i) take any action, or fail to take any action, if such action or
failure to take action may interfere with the enforcement of any rights under
this Agreement or the Basic Documents that are material to the rights, benefits
or obligations of CWC or VFCC (however, nothing herein shall be construed to
constitute a guarantee of collectability by the Company); (ii) take any action,
or fail to take any action, if such action or failure to take action may
interfere with the enforcement of any rights with respect to the Transferred
Receivables; or (iii) fail to pay any tax, assessment, charge, fee or other
obligation of the Company with respect to the Transferred Receivables, or fail
to defend any action, if such failure to pay or defend may adversely affect the
priority or enforceability of the first priority perfected interest of CWC in
the Transferred Receivables or the Company's right, title or interest in the
Transferred Receivables;

     VIII.  neither the Company nor any Commonly Controlled Entity will:

               A.   terminate any Plan so as to incur any material liability to
            the PBGC;

               B.   knowingly participate in any "prohibited transaction" (as
            defined in ERISA) involving any Plan or Multiemployer Plan or any
            trust created thereunder which would subject any of them to a
            material tax or penalty on prohibited transactions imposed under
            Section 4975 of the Code or ERISA;

               C.   fail to pay to any Plan or Multiemployer Plan any
            contribution which it is obligated to pay under the terms of such
            Plan or Multiemployer Plan, if such failure would cause such plan to
            have any material Accumulated Funding Deficiency, whether or not
            waived; or

               D.   allow or suffer to exist any occurrence of a Reportable
            Event, or any other event or condition, which presents a material
            risk of termination by the PBGC on any Plan or Multiemployer Plan,
            to the extent that the occurrence or nonoccurrence of such
            Reportable Event or other event or condition is within the control
            of it or any Commonly Controlled Entity;

     IX.    make any material change to the Credit and Collection Policies
without the prior written consent of Deal Agent; or

     X.     take or permit (other than with respect to actions taken or to be
taken solely by a government or governmental authority) to be taken any action
which would have the effect directly or indirectly of subjecting interest on any
of the Advances or the Commercial Paper to withholding taxation in the hands of,
respectively, CWC, VFCC or holders of the Commercial Paper generally who are
residents of the United States, and will perform all of its obligations under
this Agreement and the Basic Documents to prevent or cure any default by the
Company which would have the effect, directly or indirectly, of subjecting
interest on any of the Advances or the Commercial Paper to withholding taxation.

     SECTION 4.04.  Breach of Representations, Warranties or Covenants.  Upon
                    --------------------------------------------------       
discovery by the Company, CWC, the Deal Agent, VFCC, the Collateral Agent or any
assignee of either of CWC's rights hereunder, of a breach of any of the
representations, warranties or covenants described in Section 4.01, 4.02 or 4.03
hereof which is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the value
of a Transferred Receivable or the interests of CWC, VFCC or the Collateral
Agent therein, the party discovering such breach shall give prompt written
notice to the other parties.  Thereafter, if requested by notice from CWC or any
assignee of CWC, the Company shall, on the next succeeding Business Day, either
(i) repurchase such Transferred Receivable from CWC in consideration of cash or
additional Eligible Receivables at a price equal to the Sale Price 

                                      -22-
<PAGE>
 
therefor plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, less principal payments
actually received prior to the date of such purchase, (ii) transfer ownership of
a new Eligible Receivable or new Eligible Receivables on such Business Day in an
amount equal to the face amount of such Transferred Receivable; or (iii) make a
capital contribution of the Rejected Amount in cash to CWC, by remitting the
amount of such capital contribution to the Collection Account in accordance with
the terms of the Funding Agreement, in each case in an amount equal to the
Contract Principal Balance of such Transferred Receivable.

                                   ARTICLE V

                                INDEMNIFICATION

     SECTION 5.01.  Indemnification.  (a) Without limiting any other rights that
                    ---------------                                             
CWC, VFCC, the Collateral Agent or any of their shareholders, officers or
agents, or any assignee of CWC's rights hereunder or such assignee's
shareholders, officers, employees or agents (each, an "Indemnified Party") may
                                                       -----------------      
have hereunder or under applicable law, the Company hereby agrees to indemnify
each Indemnified Party from and against any and all claims, losses, liabilities,
obligations, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, and related costs
and expenses of any nature whatsoever, including reasonable attorneys' fees and
disbursements (all of the foregoing being collectively referred to as
"Indemnified Amounts") which may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against
 -------------------
an Indemnified Party in any way arising out of or resulting from this Agreement
or the other Basic Documents or the use by the Company of proceeds of any
purchase or assignment hereunder or in respect of any Transferred Receivable or
any Contract, excluding, however, (a) Indemnified Amounts to the extent
resulting solely from gross negligence, acts of bad faith or willful misconduct
on the part of such Indemnified Party or (b) recourse for uncollectible or
uncollected Transferred Receivables. Without limiting or being limited by the
foregoing, the Company shall pay on demand to each Indemnified Party any and all
Indemnified Amounts necessary to indemnify such Indemnified Party from and
against any and all Indemnified Amounts relating to or resulting from:

               (i)    reliance on any representation or warranty made or deemed
          made by the Company (or any of its officers) under or in connection
          with this Agreement or the other Basic Documents, any report or any
          other information delivered by the Company pursuant hereto, which
          shall have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed
          made or delivered;

               (ii)   the failure by the Company to comply with any term,
          provision or covenant contained in this Agreement or the other Basic
          Documents, or any agreement executed in connection with this Agreement
          or with any applicable law, rule or regulation with respect to any
          Transferred Receivable or the related Contract, or the nonconformity
          of any Transferred Receivable or the related Contract with any such
          applicable law, rule or regulation; or

               (iii)  the failure to vest and maintain vested in CWC, or to
          transfer to CWC, legal and equitable title to and ownership of the
          Receivables which are, or are purported to be, Transferred
          Receivables, together with all Collections and Proceeds in respect
          thereof, free and clear of any Adverse Claim or Restrictions on
          Transferability (except as permitted hereunder) whether existing at
          the time of the proposed sale of such Receivable or at any time
          thereafter.

     SECTION 5.02.  Assignment of Indemnities.  The Company acknowledges that,
                    -------------------------                                 
pursuant to the Funding Agreement, CWC may assign its rights of indemnity
granted hereunder to VFCC, the Collateral Agent and the Lenders upon such
assignment, VFCC, the Collateral Agent or the Lenders, as applicable, shall have
all rights of CWC hereunder and may in turn assign such rights.  The Company
agrees that, upon such assignment, VFCC, the Collateral Agent or the Lenders or
the assignee of either VFCC, the Collateral Agent or the Lenders, as applicable,
may enforce directly, without joinder of CWC, the indemnities set forth in this
Article V.

                                      -23-
<PAGE>
 
                             ARTICLE VI [RESERVED]

                                  ARTICLE VII

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

     SECTION 7.01.  Notices, Etc.  All notices and other communications provided
                    ------------                                                
for hereunder shall, unless otherwise stated herein, be in writing (including
facsimile, telex and express mail) and mailed or telecommunicated, or delivered
as to each party hereto, at its address set forth under its name on the
signature page hereof or at such other address as shall be designated by such
party in a written notice to the other parties hereto.  All such notices and
communications shall not be effective until received by the party to whom such
notice or communication is addressed.

     SECTION 7.02.  No Waiver; Remedies.  No failure on the part of the Company
                    -------------------                                        
or CWC or any assignee of CWC to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right
hereunder or under any Assignment shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall
any single or partial exercise of any right hereunder preclude any other or
further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right.  The remedies
herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any other remedies provided
by law.

     SECTION 7.03.  Binding Effect; Assignability.  This Agreement shall be
                    -----------------------------                          
binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and CWC, and their
respective successors and permitted assigns.  Except as contemplated herein,
none of the parties may assign any of its rights and obligations hereunder or
any interest herein without the prior written consent of the other parties.
This Agreement shall create and constitute the continuing obligations of the
parties hereto in accordance with its terms, and shall remain in full force and
effect until its termination; provided, that the rights and remedies pursuant to
                              --------                                          
Section 4.04 with respect to any breach of any representation, warranty or
covenants made by the Company pursuant to Sections 4.01, 4.02 and 4.03 and the
indemnification and payment provisions of Article IV shall be continuing and
shall survive any termination of this Agreement.

     SECTION 7.04.  No Proceedings.  The Company hereby agrees that it will not,
                    --------------                                              
directly or indirectly, institute, or cause to be instituted, against CWC any
proceeding of the type referred to in the definition of Event of Bankruptcy in
the Funding Agreement until one year and one day shall have elapsed since the
last day on which any Commercial Paper issued by VFCC under the Funding
Agreement remains outstanding.

     SECTION 7.05.  Amendments; Consents and Waivers.  No modification,
                    --------------------------------                   
amendment or waiver of, or with respect to, any provision of this Agreement, and
all other agreements, instruments and documents delivered thereto, nor consent
to any departure by the Company or CWC from any of the terms or conditions
thereof shall be effective unless it shall be in writing and signed by each of
the parties hereto, and prior written consent is given by VFCC and the
Collateral Agent.  Any waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific
instance and for the purpose for which given.  No consent or demand in any case
shall, in itself, entitle any party to any other consent or further notice or
demand in similar or other circumstances.  This Agreement and the documents
referred to herein embody the entire agreement of the Company and CWC with
respect to the Transferred Receivables and supersede all prior agreements and
understandings relating to the subject hereof.

     SECTION 7.06.  GOVERNING LAW; WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.  (a) THIS AGREEMENT
                    -----------------------------------                     
SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS (AS
OPPOSED TO CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISIONS) OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

     (b)  THE COMPANY AND CWC EACH HEREBY WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO HAVE A JURY
PARTICIPATE IN RESOLVING ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT, TORT, OR
OTHERWISE ARISING OUT OF, CONNECTED WITH, RELATED TO, OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS
AGREEMENT.  INSTEAD, ANY DISPUTE RESOLVED IN COURT WILL BE RESOLVED IN A BENCH
TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY.

                                      -24-
<PAGE>
 
     SECTION 7.07.  Execution in Counterparts; Severability.  This Agreement may
                    ---------------------------------------                     
be executed by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when
so executed shall be deemed to be an original and both of which when taken
together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  In case any provision in
or obligation under this Agreement shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in
any jurisdiction, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining
provisions or obligations in any jurisdiction, or of such provision or
obligation in any jurisdiction, shall not in any way be affected or impaired
thereby.

     SECTION 7.08.  Descriptive Headings.  The descriptive headings of the
                    --------------------                                  
various sections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference
only and shall not be deemed to affect the meaning or construction of any of the
provisions hereof.

     SECTION 7.09.  No Setoff.  The Company's obligations under this Agreement
                    ---------                                                 
shall not be affected by any right of setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense
or other right the Company might have against CWC, VFCC, the Deal Agent, any
Lender or any assignee, all of which rights are hereby waived by the Company.

     SECTION 7.10.  Further Assurances.  The Company agrees to do such further
                    ------------------                                        
acts and things and to execute and deliver to CWC, VFCC, the Deal Agent, any
Lender or any assignee such additional assignments, agreements, powers and
instruments as such Person or any assignee may require or deem advisable to
carry into effect the purposes of this Agreement or to better assure and confirm
unto any such party its respective rights, powers and remedies hereunder.

     SECTION 7.11.  Confidentiality.  Except to the extent otherwise required by
                    ---------------                                             
applicable law or as required to be filed publicly with the Securities and
Exchange Commission or unless the Affected Party shall otherwise consent in
writing, the Company and CWC agree to maintain the confidentiality of this
Agreement (and all drafts of this agreement and documents ancillary to this
Agreement) in its communications with third parties other than any Affected
Party or any Indemnified Party and otherwise and not to disclose, deliver or
otherwise make available to any third party (other than its directors, officers,
employees, accountants or counsel) the original or any copy of all or any part
of this Agreement (or any draft of this Agreement and documents ancillary to
this Agreement) except to an Affected Party or an Indemnified Party.

     SECTION 7.12.  Assignment of Agreement.  The Company acknowledges that,
                    -----------------------                                 
pursuant to the Funding Agreement, CWC may assign its rights granted hereunder,
including any rights in the Collateral granted under Article II, to the
Collateral Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties and upon such assignment, the
Collateral Agent shall have all rights of CWC hereunder and may in turn assign
such rights.  The Company agrees that, upon such assignment, the Collateral
Agent may enforce directly, without joinder of CWC the rights set forth in this
Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Receivables Transfer Agreement
to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the
date first above written.


                                                Telephone      (714) 753-6816 
  CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.             Facsimile:     (714) 753-6816  
                                                                              
  By:_________________________________          CPS WAREHOUSE CORP            
      Name:                                                                   
      Title:                                    By:_____________________________
                                                   Name:
  Address:    Consumer Portfolio Services          Title:
  Inc.                                    
                                           
              2 Ada, Suite 100                  Address:  CPS Warehouse Corp,
              Irvine, CA 92618                            2 Ada, Suite 100    
  Attention:  Chief Financial Officer                     Irvine, CA 92618     

                                      -25-
<PAGE>
 
Attention:     James L. Stock
Telephone      (714) 753-6935 
Facsimile:     (714) 450-3972  

                                      -26-
<PAGE>
 
                                   EXHIBIT 1
                                   ---------

                              FORM OF ASSIGNMENT

          ASSIGNMENT, dated as of _______ between Consumer Portfolio Services,
Inc. (the "Company") and CPS WAREHOUSE CORP.  ("CWC").
           -------                              ---   

          1.   We refer to the Receivables Transfer Agreement (the "Transfer
                                                               -------------
Agreement") dated as of November 24, 1997 between the Company and CWC. All
- ----------
provisions of such Transfer Agreement are incorporated herein by reference. All
capitalized terms shall have the meanings set forth in the Transfer Agreement.

          2.   The Company does hereby sell, or contribute to CWC, without
recourse, as of ________________ (the "Cutoff Date"), except with respect to its
                                      -------------
obligations pursuant to Section 4.04 of the Transfer Agreement, all of the
Company's right, title and interest in and to the following, in each case
whether now or hereafter existing or in which Company now has or hereafter
acquires an interest and wherever the same may be located (collectively, the
"Conveyed Property"):
- -------------------

          (a)  all Transferred Receivables listed on the attached Request Notice
and related Contracts and Collections received on or after the Cutoff Date
(collectively, the "Conveyed Receivables") and the Company's right of
                    --------------------                             
foreclosure as lienholder of the vehicles underlying the Conveyed Receivables;

          (b)  to the extent arising from or relating to the Conveyed
Receivables, all of the following (the "Company Account Property"):
                                       -------------------------- 

               (i)   all funds held in each Lockbox Account and the Lockboxes
          and all certificates and instruments, if any, from time to time
          representing or evidencing each Lockbox Account, the Lockboxes or such
          funds,

               (ii)  all Investments from time to time of amounts in each
          Lockbox Account, and all certificates and instruments, if any, from
          time to time representing or evidencing such Investments,

               (iii) all notes, certificates of deposit and other instruments
          from time to time delivered to or otherwise possessed by CWC or any
          assignee or agent on behalf of each Lender in substitution for or in
          addition to any of the then existing Company Account Property, and

               (iv)  all interest, dividends, cash, instruments and other
          property from time to time received, receivable or otherwise
          distributed in respect of or in exchange for any and all of the then
          existing Company Account Property;

          (d)  To the extent arising from or relating to the Conveyed
Receivables, all additional property that may from time to time be acquired by
CWC or by anyone on its behalf under the Transfer Agreement on or after the
Cutoff Date, including the deposit with CWC, the Deal Agent or the Collateral
Agent of additional moneys by the Company; and

          (e)  All Proceeds, accessions, substitutions, rents and profits of any
and all of the foregoing Company Property (including Proceeds that constitute
property of the types described in sections (a) through (d) above) and, to the
extent not otherwise included, all payments under insurance (whether or not CWC
or any assignee or agent on behalf of CWC is the loss payee thereof or any
indemnity, warranty or guaranty payable by reason of loss or damage to or
otherwise with respect to any of the foregoing Company Property which are
received on or after the Cutoff Date.

                                      1-1
<PAGE>
 
          3.   Each Sale and/or contribution made from the Company under the
Transfer Agreement shall be endorsed by CWC on the grid attached hereto which is
a part of this Certificate of Assignment, and such endorsement shall evidence
the ownership of the Transferred Receivables resulting from such Sale and/or
contribution thereof.

          4.   THIS CERTIFICATE OF ASSIGNMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be
executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date
first above written.


CPS WAREHOUSE CORP.                            CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.

By:____________________________                By:______________________________
   Name:                                          Name:
   Title:                                         Title:


                            [ATTACH REQUEST NOTICE]

                                      1-2
<PAGE>
 
                                   EXHIBIT 2
                                   ---------

                       FORM OF COMPANY'S REPRESENTATIONS
                 AND WARRANTIES REGARDING THE PURCHASED ASSETS

     The Seller makes the following representations and warranties as to the
Receivables to the Note Insurer, the Issuer and to the Trustee on which the
Issuer relies in acquiring the Receivables and on which the Note Insurer relies
in issuing the Note Policy. Such representations and warranties speak as of the
execution and delivery of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date, in the case
of the Initial Receivables, and as of the related Subsequent Transfer Date, in
case of the Subsequent Receivables, but shall survive the sale, transfer and
assignment of the Receivables to the Issuer and the pledge thereof to the
Trustee pursuant to the Indenture.

     (i) Characteristics of Receivables.  (A) Each Receivable (1) has been
originated in the United States of America by a Dealer for the retail sale of a
Financed Vehicle in the ordinary course of such Dealer's business, has been
fully and properly executed by the parties thereto and has been purchased by CPS
(or, with respect to the Samco Receivables, Samco) in connection with the sale
of Financed Vehicles by the Dealers, (2) has created a valid, subsisting, and
enforceable first priority perfected security interest in favor of CPS (or, with
respect to the Samco Receivables, Samco) in the Financed Vehicle, which security
interest has been assigned by CPS (or, with respect to the Samco Receivables,
Samco) to the Seller, which in turn has assigned such security interest to the
Trustee, (3) contains customary and enforceable provisions such that the rights
and remedies of the holder or assignee thereof shall be adequate for realization
against the collateral of the benefits of the security, (4) provides for level
monthly payments that fully amortize the Amount Financed over the original term
(except for the last payment, which may be different from the level payment) and
yield interest at the Annual Percentage Rate, (5) has an Annual Percentage Rate
of not less than ____%, (6) that is a Rule of 78's Receivable provides for, in
the event that such contract is prepaid, a prepayment that fully pays the
Principal Balance and includes a full month's interest, in the month of
prepayment, at the Annual Percentage Rate, (7) is a Rule of 78's Receivable or a
Simple Interest Receivable, and (8) was originated by a Dealer and was sold by
the Dealer without any fraud or misrepresentation on the part of such Dealer.

     (B) Approximately ____% of the aggregate Principal Balance of the
Receivables, constituting ____% of the number of contracts, as of the Cutoff
Date, represents financing of used automobiles, light trucks, vans or minivans;
the remainder of the Receivables represent financing of new automobiles, light
trucks, vans or minivans; approximately ____% of the aggregate Principal Balance
of the Receivables as of the Cutoff Date were originated in the State of
California; approximately ____% of the aggregate Principal Balance of the
Receivables as of the Cutoff Date were originated under the CPS alpha program;
approximately ____% of the aggregate Principal Balance of the Receivables as of
the Cutoff Date were originated under the CPS delta program; approximately ____%
of the aggregate Principal Balance of the Receivables as of the Cutoff Date were
originated under the CPS first time buyer program; approximately ____% of the
aggregate Principal Balance of the Receivables were originated under the CPS
standard program; the remaining ____% of the aggregate Principal Balance of the
Receivables as of the Cutoff Date were acquired by CPS from unaffiliated
parties; approximately ____% of the aggregate Principal Balance of the
Receivables are Samco Receivables; no Receivable shall have a payment that is
more than 30 days overdue as of the Cutoff Date; ____% of the aggregate
Principal Balance of the Receivables are Rule of 78's Receivables and ____% of
the aggregate Principal Balance of the Receivables are Simple Interest
Receivables; each Receivable shall have a final scheduled payment due no later
than ____________, ____; each Receivable has an original term to maturity of not
more than ___ months and a weighted average original term to maturity of ___
months and a remaining term to maturity of not more than ___ months and a
weighted average remaining term to maturity of ___ months; and each Receivable
was originated on or before the Cutoff Date.

     (ii) Schedule of Receivables.  The information with respect to the
Receivables set forth in Schedule A to this Agreement is true and correct in all
material respects as of the close of business on the Cutoff Date, and no
selection procedures adverse to the Noteholders have been utilized in selecting
the Receivables.

                                      2-1
<PAGE>
 
     (iii)  Compliance with Law.  Each Receivable, the sale of the Financed
Vehicle and the sale of any physical damage, credit life and credit accident and
health insurance and any extended service contracts complied at the time the
related Receivable was originated or made and at the execution of this Agreement
complies in all material respects with all requirements of applicable Federal,
State, and local laws, and regulations thereunder including, without limitation,
usury laws, the Federal Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act,
the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the
Federal Trade Commission Act, the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, the Federal
Reserve Board's Regulations B and Z, the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act
of 1940, the Texas Consumer Credit Code, the California Automobile Sales Finance
Act and State adaptations of the National Consumer Act and of the Uniform
Consumer Credit Code, and other consumer credit laws and equal credit
opportunity and disclosure laws.

     (iv)   No Government Obligor.  None of the Receivables are due from the
United States of America or any State or from any agency, department, or
instrumentality of the United States of America or any State.

     (v)    Security Interest in Financed Vehicle. Immediately subsequent to the
sale, assignment and transfer thereof to the Trust, each Receivable shall be
secured by a validly perfected first priority security interest in the Financed
Vehicle in favor of the Trust as secured party, and such security interest is
prior to all other liens upon and security interests in such Financed Vehicle
which now exist or may hereafter arise or be created (except, as to priority,
for any tax liens or mechanics' liens which may arise after the Closing Date).

     (vi)   Receivables in Force. No Receivable has been satisfied, subordinated
or rescinded, nor has any Financed Vehicle been released from the lien granted
by the related Receivable in whole or in part.

     (vii)  No Waiver.  No provision of a Receivable has been waived.

     (viii) No Amendments.  No Receivable has been amended, except as such
Receivable may have been amended to grant extensions which shall not have
numbered more than (a) one extension of one calendar month in any calendar year
or (b) three such extensions in the aggregate.

     (ix)   No Defenses. No right of rescission, setoff, counterclaim or defense
exists or has been asserted or threatened with respect to any Receivable. The
operation of the terms of any Receivable or the exercise of any right thereunder
will not render such Receivable unenforceable in whole or in part or subject to
any such right of rescission, setoff, counterclaim, or defense.

     (x)    No Liens. As of the Cutoff Date there are no liens or claims
existing or which have been filed for work, labor, storage or materials relating
to a Financed Vehicle that shall be liens prior to, or equal or coordinate with,
the security interest in the Financed Vehicle granted by the Receivable.

     (xi)   No Default; Repossession. Except for payment delinquencies
continuing for a period of not more than thirty days as of the Cutoff Date, no
default, breach, violation or event permitting acceleration under the terms of
any Receivable has occurred; and no continuing condition that with notice or the
lapse of time would constitute a default, breach, violation or event permitting
acceleration under the terms of any Receivable has arisen; and the Seller shall
not waive and has not waived any of the foregoing; and no Financed Vehicle shall
have been repossessed as of the Cutoff Date.

     (xii)  Insurance; Other.  (A) Each Obligor has obtained insurance covering
the Financed Vehicle as of the execution of the Receivable insuring against loss
and damage due to fire, theft, transportation, collision and other risks
generally covered by comprehensive and collision coverage, and each Receivable
requires the Obligor to obtain and maintain such insurance naming CPS (or, with
respect to the Samco Receivables, Samco) and its successors and assigns as an
additional insured, (B) each Receivable that finances the cost of premiums for
credit life and credit accident and health insurance is covered by an insurance
policy or certificate of insurance naming CPS (or with respect to the Samco
Receivables, Samco) as policyholder (creditor) under each such insurance policy
and certificate of insurance and (C) as to each Receivable that finances the
cost of an extended service 

                                      2-2
<PAGE>
 
contract, the respective Financed Vehicle which secures the Receivable is
covered by an extended service contract.

     (xiii)  Title.  It is the intention of the Seller that the transfer and
assignment herein contemplated constitute a sale of the Receivables from the
Seller to the Trust and that the beneficial interest in and title to such
Receivables not be part of the Seller's estate in the event of the filing of a
bankruptcy petition by or against the Seller under any bankruptcy law.  No
Receivable has been sold, transferred, assigned, or pledged by the Seller to any
Person other than the Trust.  Immediately prior to the transfer and assignment
herein contemplated, the Seller had good and marketable title to each Receivable
and was the sole owner thereof, free and clear of all liens, claims,
encumbrances, security interests, and rights of others, and, immediately upon
the transfer thereof, the Trust for the benefit of the Noteholders and the Note
Insurer shall have good and marketable title to each such Receivable and will be
the sole owner thereof, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, security
interests, and rights of others, and the transfer has been perfected under the
UCC.

     (xiv)   Lawful Assignment.  No Receivable has been originated in, or is
subject to the laws of, any jurisdiction under which the sale, transfer, and
assignment of such Receivable under this Agreement or pursuant to transfers of
the Securities shall be unlawful, void, or voidable.  The Seller has not entered
into any agreement with any account debtor that prohibits, restricts or
conditions the assignment of any portion of the Receivables.

     (xv)    All Filings Made.  All filings (including, without limitation, UCC
filings) necessary in any jurisdiction to give the Trust a first priority
perfected ownership interest in the Receivables and the proceeds thereof and the
other Conveyed Property have been made, taken or performed.

     (xvi)   Receivable File; One Original.  CPS has delivered to the Trustee a
complete Receivable File with respect to each Receivable.  There is only one
original executed copy of each Receivable.

     (xvii)  Chattel Paper.  Each Receivable constitutes "chattel paper" under
the UCC.

     (xviii) Title Documents.  (A) If the Receivable was originated in a State
in which notation of a security interest on the title document of the related
Financed Vehicle is required or permitted to perfect such security interest, the
title document of the related Financed Vehicle for such Receivable shows, or if
a new or replacement title document is being applied for with respect to such
Financed Vehicle the title document (or, with respect to Receivables originated
in the State of Michigan, all other evidence of ownership with respect to such
Financed Vehicle) will be received within 180 days and will show, CPS (or, with
respect to the Samco Receivables, Samco) named as the original secured party
under the related Receivable as the holder of a first priority security interest
in such Financed Vehicle, and (B) if the Receivable was originated in a State in
which the filing of a financing statement under the UCC is required to perfect a
security interest in motor vehicles, such filings or recordings have been duly
made and show CPS (or, with respect to the Samco Receivables, Samco) named as
the original secured party under the related Receivable, and in either case, the
Trust has the same rights as such secured party has or would have (if such
secured party were still the owner of the Receivable) against all parties
claiming an interest in such Financed Vehicle.  With respect to each Receivable
for which the title document of the related Financed Vehicle has not yet been
returned from the Registrar of Titles, CPS has received written evidence from
the related Dealer that such title document showing CPS (or, with respect to the
Samco Receivables, Samco) as first lienholder has been applied for.

     (xix)   Valid and Binding Obligation of Obligor.  Each Receivable is the
legal, valid and binding obligation of the Obligor thereunder and is enforceable
in accordance with its terms, except only as such enforcement may be limited by
bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors'
rights generally, and all parties to such contract had full legal capacity to
execute and deliver such contract and all other documents related thereto and to
grant the security interest purported to be granted thereby.

     (xx)    Tax Liens.  As of the Cutoff Date, there is no lien against the
related Financed Vehicle for delinquent taxes.

                                      2-3
<PAGE>
 
     (xxi)    Characteristics of Obligors.  As of the date of each Obligor's
application for the loan from which the related Receivable arises, such Obligor
(a) did not have any material past due credit obligations or any personal or
real property repossessed or wages garnished within one year prior to the date
of such application, unless such amounts have been repaid or discharged through
bankruptcy, (b) was not the subject of any Federal, State or other bankruptcy,
insolvency or similar proceeding pending on the date of application that is not
discharged, (c) had not been the subject of more than one Federal, State or
other bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding, and (d) was domiciled in the
United States.

     (xxii)   Origination Date.  Each Receivable has an origination date on or
after April 10, 1995.

     (xxiii)  Maturity of Receivables.  Each Receivable has an original term to
maturity of not less than [ ] months and not more than 60 months; the weighted
average original term to maturity of the Receivables is 57 months as of the
Cutoff Date; the remaining term to maturity of each Receivable was 60 months or
less as of the Cutoff Date; the weighted average remaining term to maturity of
the Receivables was 56 months as of the Cutoff Date.

     (xxiv)   Scheduled Payments.  Each Receivable had an original principal
balance of not less than $_____ nor more than $________ had an outstanding
principal balance as of the Cutoff Date of not less than $_____ nor more than
$________ and has a first Scheduled Payment due on or prior to __________,
_____.

     (xxv)    Origination of Receivables.  Based on the billing address of the
Obligors and the Principal Balances as of the Cutoff Date, approximately ____%
of the aggregate Principal Balance of the Receivables represents Receivables
that were originated in California, approximately ____% of the aggregate
Principal Balance of the Receivables represents Receivables that were originated
in Louisiana, approximately ____% of the aggregate Principal Balance of the
Receivables represents Receivables that were originated in Texas, approximately
____% of the aggregate Principal Balance of the Receivables represents
Receivables that were originated in Pennsylvania and the remaining ____% of the
aggregate Principal Balance of the Receivables represents Receivables that were
originated in other States.

     (xxvi)   Post-Office Box.  On or prior to the next billing period after the
Cutoff Date, CPS will notify each Obligor to make payments with respect to its
respective Receivables after the Cutoff Date directly to the Post-Office Box,
and will provide each Obligor with a monthly statement in order to enable such
Obligors to make payments directly to the Post-Office Box.

     (xxvii)  Location of Receivable Files.  A complete Receivable File with
respect to each Receivable has been or prior to the Closing Date will be
delivered to the Trustee at the location listed in Schedule B.

     (xxviii) Casualty.  No Financed Vehicle has suffered a Casualty.

     (xxix)   Principal Balance/Number of Contracts.  As of the Cutoff Date, the
total aggregate principal balance of the Receivables was $____________.  The
Receivables are evidenced by ______ Contracts.

     (xxx)    Full Amount Advanced.  The full amount of each Receivable has been
advanced to each Obligor, and there are no requirements for future advances
thereunder.  The Obligor with respect to the Receivable does not have any option
under the Receivable to borrow from any person additional funds secured by the
Financed Vehicle.

                                      2-4
<PAGE>
 
                                   EXHIBIT 3
                                   ---------

                   FORM OF ASSIGNMENT OF INSURANCE INTERESTS

Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc. ("Assignor") hereby absolutely and irrevocably
                                    --------                                    
assigns to First Union National Bank. ("FUNB") all of Assignor's right, title
                                        ----                                 
and interest in, under, and with respect to all insurance and service contracts
which provide any of the following coverages with respect to installment
contracts which Assignor has pledged to FUNB and FUNB continues to have a
security interest in:

1.   credit life, credit disability, or credit accident and health;

2.   casualty, damage, theft, loss or liability;

3.   involuntary unemployment;

4.   mechanical breakdown, warranty, maintenance, or servicing;

5.   lender protection, vendor/lender single interest, skip, repossessed vehicle
     casualty (including damage, theft, and loss), confiscation, nonfiling, or
     failure of lien perfection; or

6.   any other coverage assigned in writing by Assignor to FUNB.

Without limiting the rights included in this assignment, this assignment
entitles FUNB to claim and collect all benefits, refunds, and other amounts with
respect to all coverages that Assignor would be entitled to claim and collect,
and to make such claims and collections in its name or Assignor's name.
Assignor hereby authorizes FUNB to sign Assignor's name on all such claims and
collections FUNB makes, and to endorse Assignor's name on all such payments it
receives.  Assignor hereby instructs and authorizes all providers of the
foregoing coverage to rely on this Assignment and any statement or instruction
in writing by FUNB with respect to the operation and effect of this Assignment
and the installment contracts covered by it.  Assignor hereby agrees that the
providers of the coverages who so rely shall have no liability to Assignor for
complying with this Assignment and such statements and instructions by FUNB.

Dated:  November ___, 1997          CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC. [SEAL]


                                    By:__________________________________
                                       Name: 
                                       Title: 

                                      2-1
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.16
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>CPS CREDIT LINE NOTE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.16

                             CPS CREDIT LINE NOTE


Not to Exceed
$25,000,000                                                      August 8, 1997


     For value received, CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC.  (the "Maker"), a
California corporation, promises to pay to the order of STANWICH FINANCIAL
SERVICES CORP. (the "Holder"), a Rhode Island corporation, the principal amount
of Twenty-five Million Dollars  ($25,000,000) or, if less, the aggregate unpaid
principal amount of all loans and advances now or hereafter made by the Holder
to the Maker, as contemplated by Sections 1 and 2 of this Note, together with
interest thereon, in accordance with the provisions of this Note.

     SECTION 1.  INITIAL ADVANCE.  On the date hereof the Holder has made an
     ---------   ---------------                                            
advance to the Maker under this Note in the amount of Twenty-five Million
Dollars ($25,000,000) (the "Initial Advance").  The Initial Advance was funded,
in accordance with the Maker's instructions, by wire transfer of the amount
thereof to the Maker's account by the Holder. The Maker acknowledges receipt of
the Initial Advance.

     SECTION 2.  FUTURE ADVANCES.  The Maker acknowledges that, at the request
     ---------   ---------------                                              
of the Maker, the Holder may hereafter from time to time make additional
advances to the Maker under this Note (each a "Future Advance");  provided,
                                                                  -------- 
however, that the Holder shall not be obligated to make any Future Advance after
- -------                                                                         
December 19, 1997 or at any time when the principal amount outstanding under
this Note is more than Twenty-two Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars
($22,500,000); and provided, further, that the Holder shall not be obligated to
                   --------  -------                                           
make any Future Advance unless:

     (i)    the Maker shall have delivered to the Holder a request in writing
            for such Future Advance (an "Advance Request"); and

     (ii)   the Advance Request specifies (A) the amount of the Future Advance
            then being requested, which shall be Two Million Five Hundred
            Thousand Dollars ($2,500,000) or an integral multiple thereof (but
            no other amount), (B) the date proposed by the Maker for the making
            of such Future Advance (the "Proposed Advance Date"), which shall be
            not fewer than three (3) nor more than thirty (30) business days
            after the date of the Advance Request and (C) that such Advance
            Request is being made pursuant to this Note, which shall be
            identified in such Advance Request as "that certain CPS Credit Line
            Note dated August 8, 1997 in the principal amount not to exceed
            $25,000,000"; and

     (iii)  the amount of such requested Future Advance is not greater than the
            amount obtained by subtracting (A) the principal amount outstanding
            under this Note on 
<PAGE>
 
            the applicable Proposed Advance Date from (B) Twenty-five Million
            Dollars ($25,000,000); and


     (iv)   no Event of Default (as such term is hereinafter defined) shall have
            occurred on or prior to the Proposed Advanced Date and be continuing
            on such date.

     SECTION 3.  PAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL.  Subject to Section 8 of this Note, the
     ---------   --------------------                                         
principal of this Note shall be payable in full on December 31, 1997.

     SECTION 4.  INTEREST.  The unpaid principal of this Note outstanding from
     ---------   --------                                                     
time to time shall bear interest, beginning as of the date hereof, at an annual
rate of ten percent  (10%), computed on the basis of a 365-day year and
continuing until the principal hereof is repaid in full.  Interest shall be
payable monthly  in arrears beginning August 31, 1997 and on the last day of
each succeeding month (each, an "Interest Payment Date") until the principal of
this Note is paid in full.  If the principal of this Note is paid on other than
an Interest Payment Date, interest shall also be payable on the date of such
principal payment.

     In no contingency or event whatsoever shall the interest payable to Holder
by Maker, howsoever characterized or computed, hereunder, exceed the highest
rate permissible under any law to which such interest is subject. There is no
intention that Holder shall contract for, charge or receive interest  in excess
of the highest lawful rate, and, in the event it should be determined that any
excess has been charged or received then, ipso facto, such rate shall be reduced
                                          ---- -----                            
to the highest lawful rate so that no amounts shall be charged which are in
excess thereof.  In the event that it should be determined that any excess over
such highest lawful rate has been charged or received, Holder, shall apply such
excess against the outstanding principal balance of this Note, and, to the
extent of any amounts remaining thereafter, shall refund such excess to Maker.

     SECTION 5.  PREPAYMENTS.  The Maker may prepay the principal of this Note
     ---------   -----------                                                  
in whole or, from time to time, in part without penalty or premium; provided,
                                                                    -------- 
however, that each partial prepayment shall be in the amount of Two Million Five
- -------                                                                         
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($2,500,000) or an integral multiple thereof; and
provided further that, if the Maker makes a prepayment of principal on any date,
- -------- -------                                                                
it shall also pay on the same date all accrued and unpaid interest hereunder to
such date.  Any such prepayment of principal shall be without prejudice to the
right of the Maker, through a Future Advance, thereafter to reborrow all or a
portion of the amount so prepaid, subject to the provisions of Section 2 of this
Note.

     SECTION 6.  PLACE OF PAYMENTS.  All payments of principal and interest
     ---------   -----------------                                         
under this Note shall be made to the order of Holder at the address specified in
Section 15(b) or, if the Holder so requests, by wire transfer of funds to the
Holder's account.

     SECTION 7.  MAKER'S REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS.  Maker
     ---------   -------------------------------------------------        
represents, warrants and covenants to and with the Holder as follows:

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
     (a)     The Maker is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in
good standing under the laws of the State of California.

     (b)     The execution and delivery of this Note, and the performance by the
Maker of its obligations hereunder, have been (or will be by August 31, 1997)
duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Maker.

     (c)     The Maker is a corporation organized for a profit and is engaged
primarily in commercial or nonconsumer pursuits.

     (d)     The funds received by the Maker from the Initial Advance and all
Future Advances, if any, will not be utilized for consumer purposes.

     (e)     Upon Holder's request after each Future Advance, if any, the Maker
will execute and deliver to the Holder a receipt of the proceeds thereof, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Holder.

     SECTION 8.  DEFAULT; ACCELERATION. As used in this Note, the term "Event of
     ----------  ---------------------                                          
Default" means the occurrence of any of the following events:

     (i)     the failure of the Maker to pay any installment of interest under
             this Note when due or within ten (10) business days after notice
             from the Holder of such failure to pay; or

     (ii)    the filing by or against the Maker of any petition for
             adjudication, arrangement, reorganization or the like under any
             bankruptcy or insolvency law (which petition, in the case of an
             involuntary proceeding, is not dismissed within 30 days of its
             filing); or

     (iii)   the making by the Maker of an assignment for the benefit of its
             creditors; or

     (iv)    the appointment of a receiver for any part of the property of the
             Maker; or

     (v)     the acceleration of the payment of any indebtedness of the Maker
             for borrowed money to a date prior to the date of the scheduled
             maturity thereof as a result of the occurrence of a default or
             event of default under the loan or financing agreements or
             instruments pursuant to which such indebtedness was incurred;
             provided; however, that if such acceleration is rescinded by the
             --------  -------
             applicable lender within 30 days after the date thereof, the same
             shall not constitute an Event of Default; or

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
     (vi)   the Maker's breach or failure to perform any covenant or agreement
            made by it in this Note, which breach or failure is not cured (if
            curable) within 30 days after notice thereof given by the Holder to
            the Maker; or

     (vii)  the breach of or inaccurracy in any representation or warranty made
            or given by the Maker in this Note; or

     (viii) the dissolution of the Maker; or

     (ix)   the sale of all or substanitally all of its assets of the Maker
            other than in the ordinary course of business; or

     (x)    the merger or consolidation of the Maker with or into another
            corporation or entity in a transaction in which the Maker is not the
            surviving corporation;

     If an Event of Default occurs, then, in such case, the entire indebtedness
and accrued interest thereon outstanding under this Note, at the Holder's
option, shall accelerate and become immediately due and payable without notice,
presentment, demand or any other formalities, all of which, to the extent
permitted by applicable law, the Maker hereby expressly waives.

     SECTION 9.  COST OF COLLECTION.  The Maker shall reimburse the Holder for
     ---------   ------------------                                           
all reasonable costs and expenses, including the reasonable fees and
disbursements of the Holder's attorneys, which may be incurred by the Holder in
collecting any amounts due hereunder.

     SECTION 10.  LOSS, THEFT, DESTRUCTION OR MUTILATION OF NOTE.  Upon receipt
     ----------   ----------------------------------------------               
by the Maker of evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Maker of the loss,
theft, destruction or mutilation of this Note, and of indemnity or security
reasonably satisfactory to the Maker, and upon reimbursement to the Maker of all
reasonable expenses incidental thereto, and upon surrender and cancellation of
this Note, if mutilated, the Maker will make and deliver a new note of like
tenor in lieu of this Note.  Any note made and delivered in accordance with the
provision of this paragraph shall be dated as of the date to which interest has
been paid on this Note, or if no interest has theretofore been paid on this
Note, then dated the date hereof.

     SECTION 11.  GOVERNING LAW.  This Note shall be construed in accordance
     ----------   -------------                                             
with and governed by the laws of the State of Connecticut  (in which state this
Note has been delivered and  accepted), without regard to principles of
conflicts of laws.

     SECTION 12.  SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.  All the covenants, stipulations,
     ----------   ----------------------                                   
promises and agreements contained in this Note by or on behalf of the Maker or
the Holder and all rights of the Maker or the Holder contained in this Note
shall bind or inure to their respective successors, assigns, heirs and personal
representatives, whether so expressed or not.

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
     SECTION 13.  CUMULATIVE REMEDIES.  No course of dealing, or any delay or
     ----------   -------------------                                        
omission of the Holder to exercise any right or power hereunder (including,
without limitation, any right or power arising from any default or failure of
performance of the Maker), shall exhaust, impair, waive or otherwise prejudice
any such right or power or prevent its exercise.  Every right and remedy given
to the Holder hereunder, by any and all agreements executed and delivered in
connection herewith or by law may be exercised from time to time as often as the
Holder may deem expedient.  No waiver by the Holder of any such default, whether
such waiver be full or partial, shall extend to or be taken to affect any
subsequent default, or to impair the rights resulting therefrom except as may be
otherwise expressly provided herein.  No remedy hereunder is intended to be
exclusive of any other remedy but each and every remedy shall be cumulative and
in addition to any and every other remedy given hereunder or otherwise existing.

     SECTION 14.  HEADINGS.  The headings of the paragraphs of this Note are
     ----------   --------                                                  
inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute a part
hereof.

     SECTION 15.  NOTICES.  All notices, requests, demands and other
     ----------   -------                                           
communications hereunder must be in writing and shall be deemed to have been
duly given if delivered by hand or mailed by first class, registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, postage and registry fees prepaid, and
addressed as follows:

          (a)  If to Maker:

               Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
               #2 Ada
               Irvine, CA 92718

               Attention: President

          (b)  If to Holder:

               Stanwich Financial Services Corp.
               c/o Stanwich Partners, Inc.
               62 Southfield Avenue
               Stamford, CT 06902

               Attention: President

Any of the foregoing parties by notice in writing mailed to the other parties
may change the name and address to which notices, requests, demands and other
communications to it or him shall be mailed.

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
     SECTION 16.  LOAN CLOSING FEES.  The Maker hereby agrees to pay to the
     -----------  -----------------                                        
Holder, in addition to principal and interest hereunder, a loan closing fee in
the amount of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000).  Such fee shall be
payable on or before August 22, 1997.


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Maker has signed this Note by a duly authorized
officer and dated it as of the day and year first above written.


                            CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SERVICES, INC


                            By: _____________________________________
                            Name: Jeffrey P. Fritz
                            Title: Senior Vice President


Accepted by

STANWICH FINANCIAL SERVICES CORP.


By: ___________________________________
     Charles E. Bradley
     President

                                       6
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1

Exhibit 21.1   List of Subsidiaries

Following is a list of subsidiaries of the registrant, omitting certain 
subsidiaries which, if taken together as one subsidiary, would not be a 
significant subsidiary as of December 31, 1996.

Alton Receivables Corp.*
CPS Receivables Corp.*
CPS Warehouse Corp.**
CPS Leasing, Inc.**
CPS Funding Corp.*
CPS Marketing, Inc.*
SAMCO Acceptance Corp.**
LINC Acceptance Company LLC**

* organized under California law
**organized under Delaware law
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' CONSENT
                         -----------------------------



The Board of Directors
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.:


We consent to incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 
33-77314, 333-00880 and 333-00736) on Form S-3 and (Nos. 33-78680 and 
33-80327) on Form S-8 of Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc. of our report dated 
February 18, 1998, relating to the consolidated balance sheets of Consumer 
Portfolio Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and 
the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' equity and cash 
flows for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, and for the nine-month 
period ended December 31, 1995, which report is included in the December 31, 
1997 Annual Report on Form 10-K of Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.





/s/ KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP


Orange County, California
March 9, 1998
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>
 
<ARTICLE> 5
       
<S>                             <C>                     <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1997             DEC-31-1996
<PERIOD-START>                             JAN-01-1997             JAN-01-1996
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-30-1997             DEC-30-1996
<CASH>                                       1,745,200                 153,958
<SECURITIES>                                         0                       0
<RECEIVABLES>                               73,695,845              24,742,967
<ALLOWANCES>                                 2,465,441                 723,089
<INVENTORY>                                          0                       0
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                     0                       0
<PP&E>                                       4,861,614               1,727,353
<DEPRECIATION>                               1,733,529               1,097,579
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                             225,895,244             101,946,420
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                       72,092,463              14,961,636
<BONDS>                                     40,000,000              20,000,000
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0                       0
<PREFERRED>                                          0                       0
<COMMON>                                    41,761,410              34,644,314
<OTHER-SE>                                  40,845,382              22,313,219
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>               225,895,244             101,946,420
<SALES>                                     79,339,589              51,193,803
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                            79,339,589              51,193,803
<CGS>                                                0                       0
<TOTAL-COSTS>                               47,380,739              27,501,407
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                     0                       0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                             4,088,504               2,755,803
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                           9,184,463               5,780,529
<INCOME-PRETAX>                             31,958,850              23,692,396
<INCOME-TAX>                                13,426,687               9,595,020
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                         18,532,163              14,097,376
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0                       0
<CHANGES>                                            0                       0
<NET-INCOME>                                18,532,163              14,097,376
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     1.29                    1.05
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     1.17                    0.93
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

                                                                    EXHIBIT 99.1

         Persons evaluating the Company and its securities should bear in mind 
the following considerations:

   LIQUIDITY. The Company requires significant operating cash to purchase
Contracts. As a result of the Company's expansion since inception and its
program of securitizing and selling Contracts, the Company's cash requirements
have in the past exceeded cash generated from operations. The Company's primary
operating cash requirements include the funding of (a) purchases of Contracts
pending their pooling and sale, (b) Spread Accounts in connection with sales or
securitizations of Contracts, (c) fees and expenses incurred in connection with
its sales and securitizations of Contracts, (d) tax payments and (e) ongoing
administrative and other operating expenses. Net cash used in operating
activities during the nine-month period ended December 31, 1995, and the years
ended December 31, 1996 and 1997, was $18.5 million, $8.4 million and $26.1
million, respectively. The Company has obtained these funds in three ways: (a)
loans and warehouse financing arrangements, pursuant to which Contracts are
financed on a temporary basis; (b) securitizations or sales of Contracts,
pursuant to which Contracts are sold; and (c) external financing. At December
31, 1997 the Company had cash of approximately $1,745,200.

   CASH REQUIREMENTS ASSOCIATED WITH SECURITIZATION TRUSTS.  Under the financial
structures the Company has used to date in its twenty-one securitizations,
certain excess servicing cash flows generated by the Contracts are retained in a
Spread Account within the securitization trusts to provide liquidity and credit
enhancement. While the specific terms and mechanics of the Spread Account vary
slightly among transactions, the Company's agreements with Financial Security
Assurance, Inc. ("FSA"), the financial guaranty insurer that has provided credit
enhancements in connection with the Company's securitizations since June 1994,
generally provide that the Company is not entitled to receive any excess
servicing cash flows unless certain Spread Account balances have been attained
and/or the delinquency or losses related to the Contracts in the pool are below
certain predetermined levels. In the event delinquencies and losses on the
Contracts exceed such levels, the terms of the securitization may require
increased Spread Account balances to be accumulated for the particular pool; may
restrict the distribution to the Company of excess cash flows associated with
other pools in which asset-backed securities are insured by FSA; or, in certain
circumstances, may require the transfer of servicing on some or all of the
Contracts in FSA-insured pools to another servicer. The imposition by FSA of any
of these conditions could materially adversely affect the Company's liquidity
and financial condition. In the past, delinquency and loss levels on ten of the
FSA-insured pools have attained levels which temporarily resulted in increased
Spread Account requirements for those pools. As of December 31, 1997, the Spread
Accounts for eight of the Company's 21 securitized pools were at higher than 
requisite levels due to delinquency, repossession or net loss performance. Such 
Spread Account balances therefore included approximately $7.0 million more 
than would have been required at the original requisite levels.


                                       1

<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997


   DEPENDENCE ON WAREHOUSE FINANCING.  The Company's primary sources of
financing for its day-to-day operations are its warehouse lines of credit (the
"Warehouse Lines of Credit"), under which the Company borrows against Contracts
held for sale, pending their sale in securitization transactions. The Company
has two Warehouse Lines of Credit, one of which permits maximum borrowings of
$100 million, and the other of which permits maximum borrowings of $150 million.
Both Warehouse Lines of Credit expire in November 1998. The Company expects to
be able to maintain existing warehouse arrangements (or to obtain replacement or
additional financing) as current arrangements expire or become fully utilized;
however, there can be no assurance that such financing will be obtainable on
favorable terms. To the extent that the Company is unable to maintain its
existing Warehouse Lines of Credit or is unable to arrange new warehouse lines
of credit, the Company may have to curtail Contract purchasing activities, which
could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition,
results of operations or liquidity.

   DEPENDENCE ON SECURITIZATION PROGRAM.  The Company is dependent upon its
ability to continue to pool and sell Contracts in order to generate cash
proceeds for new purchases. Adverse changes in the market for securitized
Contract pools, or a substantial lengthening of the warehousing period, would
burden the Company's financing capabilities, could require the Company to
curtail its purchase of Contracts, and could have a material adverse effect on
the Company. In addition, as a means of reducing the percentage of cash
collateral that the Company would otherwise be required to deposit and maintain
in Spread Accounts, all of the Company's securitizations since June 1994 have
utilized credit enhancement in the form of financial guaranty insurance policies
issued by FSA to achieve "AAA/Aaa" ratings for the asset-backed securities that
have been sold to investors. The Company believes that financial guaranty
insurance policies reduce the costs of securitizations relative to alternative
forms of credit enhancements available to the Company. FSA is not required to
insure Company-sponsored securitizations and there can be no assurance that it
will continue to do so or that future securitizations will be similarly rated.
Similarly, there can be no assurance that any securitization transaction will be
available on terms acceptable to the Company, or at all. The timing of any
securitization transaction is affected by a number of factors beyond the
Company's control, any of which could cause substantial delays, including,
without limitation, market conditions and the approval by all parties of the
terms of the securitization. Any delay in the sale of a pool of Contracts beyond
a quarter-end could reduce the gain on sale recognized in such quarter and could
result in decreased earnings or possible losses for such quarter being reported
by the Company.

   RISK OF GENERAL ECONOMIC DOWNTURN.  The Company's business is directly
related to sales of new and used automobiles, which are affected by employment
rates, prevailing interest rates and other domestic economic conditions.
Delinquencies, foreclosures and losses generally increase during economic
slowdowns or recessions. Because of the Company's focus on Sub-Prime Borrowers,
the actual rates of delinquencies, repossessions and losses on such Contracts
could be higher under adverse economic conditions than those currently
experienced in the automobile finance industry in general. Any sustained period
of economic slowdown or recession could adversely affect the Company's ability
to sell or securitize pools of Contracts. The timing of any economic changes is
uncertain, and sluggish sales of automobiles and weakness in the economy could
have an adverse effect on the Company's business and that of the Dealers from
which it purchases Contracts.

   CREDITWORTHINESS OF BORROWERS.  The Company specializes in the purchase, sale
and servicing of Contracts to finance automobile purchases by Sub-Prime
Borrowers, which entail a higher risk of non-performance, higher delinquencies
and higher losses than Contracts with more creditworthy borrowers. While the
Company believes that the underwriting criteria and collection methods it
employs enable it to control the higher risks inherent in Contracts with Sub-
Prime Borrowers, no assurance can be given that such criteria and methods will
afford adequate protection against such risks. Since inception, the Company has
expanded its operations significantly and has rapidly increased its servicing
portfolio. Because there is limited performance data available with respect to
that portion of the Company's servicing portfolio purchased most recently,
historical delinquency and loss statistics are not necessarily indicative of
future performance. The Company has experienced fluctuations in the delinquency
and charge-off performance of its Contracts, including an upward trend for each.
The Company believes, however, that such fluctuations are normal and that the
upward trend is the result of the seasoning of the servicing portfolio. In the
event that portfolios of Contracts sold and serviced by the Company experience
greater defaults, higher delinquencies or higher losses than anticipated, the
Company's earnings could be negatively impacted. In addition, the Company

                                       2

<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

bears the entire risk of loss on Contracts it holds for sale. A larger number of
defaults than anticipated could also result in adverse changes in the structure
of the Company's future securitization transactions, such as increased interest
rates on the asset-backed securities issued in those transactions.

   CONTRACTS MAY BE ONLY PARTIALLY SECURED.  Although the Contracts are each
secured by a lien on the purchased vehicle, a repossession in the event of
default generally does not yield proceeds sufficient to pay all amounts owing
under a Contract. The actual cash value of the vehicle may be less than the
amount financed at inception of the Contract, and also thereafter, because the
amount financed may be as much as 115% of the wholesale book value in the case
of used vehicles or 110% of manufacturer's invoice in the case of new vehicles,
plus sales tax, licensing fees, and any service contract or credit life or
disability policy purchased by the borrower, less the borrower's down payment
and/or trade-in allowance (generally not less than 10% of the vehicle sales
price). In addition, the proceeds available upon resale are reduced by statutory
liens, such as those for repairs, storage, unpaid taxes and unpaid parking
fines, and by the costs incurred in the repossession and resale. Unless the
Contract is sufficiently seasoned that the borrower has substantial equity in
the vehicle, the proceeds of sale are generally insufficient to pay all amounts
owing. For that reason, the Company's collection policies aim to avoid
repossession to the extent possible.

   GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION OF BUSINESS.  For the year ended December 31, 1997,
the Company purchased 18.1% of its Contracts from Dealers located in California,
and its prospects are dependent, in part, upon economic conditions prevailing in
this state. Such geographic concentration increases the potential impact of
collection disruptions and casualty losses on the financed vehicles which could
result from regional economic or catastrophic events. Although the percentage of
the servicing portfolio purchased from Dealers in California has been declining
as the Company's volume of Contract purchases has increased, at December 31,
1997, 23.9% of the servicing portfolio represents obligations of automobile
purchasers in California. Accordingly, an economic slowdown in California could
result in a decline in the availability of Contracts for purchase by the Company
as well as an increase in delinquencies and repossessions. Such conditions could
have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results
of operations or liquidity.

   POSSIBLE INCREASE IN COST OF FUNDS.  The Company's profitability is
determined by, among other things, the difference between the rate of interest
charged on the Contracts purchased by the Company and the pass-through rate of
interest (the "Pass-Through Rate") payable to investors on portfolios of
Contracts sold by the Company. The Contracts purchased by the Company generally
bear the maximum finance charges permitted by applicable state law. The fixed
Pass-Through Rates payable to investors on portfolios of Contracts sold by the
Company are based on interest rates prevailing in the market at the time of
sale. Consequently, increases in market interest rates tend to reduce the
"spread" or margin between Contract finance charges and the Pass-Through Rates
required by investors and, thus, the potential operating profits to the Company
from the purchase, sale and servicing of Contracts. Operating profits expected
to be earned by the Company on portfolios of Contracts previously sold are
insulated from the adverse effects of increasing interest rates because the
Pass-Through Rates on such portfolios were fixed at the time the Contracts were
sold. Any future increases in interest rates would likely increase the Pass-
Through Rates for future portfolios sold and could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's results of operations.

   PREPAYMENT AND DEFAULT RISK.  Gains from the sale of Contracts in the
Company's 21 securitization transactions have constituted a significant
portion of the net earnings of the Company and are likely to continue to
represent a significant portion of the Company's net earnings. A portion of the
gains are based in part on management's estimates of future prepayment and
default rates and other considerations in light of then-current conditions. If
actual prepayments with respect to Contracts occur more quickly than was
projected at the time such Contracts were sold, as can occur when interest rates
decline, or if default rates are greater than projected at the time such
Contracts were sold, a charge to earnings may be required and would be taken in
the period of adjustment. If actual prepayments occur more slowly or if default
rates are lower than estimated with respect to Contracts sold, total revenue
would exceed previously estimated amounts. Actual default and prepayment
performance, both in the aggregate and as to each securitization trust, has been
materially consistent with management's estimates. No material charges to
earnings have occurred as a result of default and prepayment performance.
However, there can be no assurance that charges to earnings will not occur in
the future as a result of actual default and prepayment performance exceeding
management's estimates.

                                       3

<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997
   COMPETITION. The automobile financing business is highly competitive. The
Company competes with a number of national, local and regional finance
companies. In addition, competitors or potential competitors include other types
of financial services companies, such as commercial banks, savings and loan
associations, leasing companies, credit unions providing retail loan financing
and lease financing for new and used vehicles and captive finance companies
affiliated with major automobile manufacturers such as General Motors Acceptance
Corporation, Ford Motor Credit Corporation, Chrysler Credit Corporation and
Nissan Motors Acceptance Corporation. Many of the Company's competitors and
potential competitors possess substantially greater financial, marketing,
technical, personnel and other resources than the Company. Moreover, the
Company's future profitability will be directly related to the availability and
cost of its capital relative to that of its competitors. The Company's
competitors and potential competitors include far larger, more established
companies that have access to capital markets for unsecured commercial paper and
investment grade rated debt instruments, and to other funding sources which may
be unavailable to the Company. Many of these companies also have long-standing
relationships with Dealers and may provide other financing to Dealers, including
floor plan financing for the Dealers' purchases of automobiles from
manufacturers, which is not offered by the Company. There can be no assurance
that the Company will be able to continue to compete successfully.

   MANAGEMENT OF RAPID GROWTH. The Company has experienced rapid growth and
expansion of its business. The Company's ability to support and manage continued
growth is dependent upon, among other things, its ability to hire, train,
supervise and manage the increased personnel. Furthermore, the Company's ability
to manage portfolio delinquency and loss rates is dependent upon the maintenance
of efficient collection procedures, adequate collection staffing, internal
controls, and automated systems. There can be no assurance that the Company's
personnel, procedures, staff, internal controls, or systems will be adequate to
support such growth.

   RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED BY THE TERMS OF THE COMPANY'S INDEBTEDNESS. The
Warehouse Lines of Credit and the indentures governing the notes ("1997 Notes")
that the Company issued in April 1997("1997 Indenture") and the notes ("1995
Notes") that the Company issued in December 1995 ("1995 Indenture") contain
covenants limiting, among other things, the nature and amount of additional
indebtedness that the Company may incur. These covenants could limit the
Company's ability to withstand competitive pressures or adverse economic
conditions, make acquisitions or take advantage of business opportunities that
may arise. Failure to comply with these covenants could, as provided in the
Warehouse Lines of Credit, permit the lenders under the Warehouse Lines of
Credit to accelerate payment of the amounts borrowed under the facility or
permit the indenture trustee thereunder to accelerate payment of the 1995 Notes
or the 1997 Notes.

   POTENTIAL FOR ADDITIONAL SENIOR INDEBTEDNESS. Under the 1997 Indenture and
the 1995 Indenture, the Company will be permitted to incur substantial
additional senior indebtedness. The potential interest expense associated with
any permitted additional Senior Indebtedness could substantially increase the
Company's fixed charge obligations and could potentially limit the Company's
ability to meet its obligations.

   ABILITY TO REPAY NOTES UPON ACCELERATED REDEMPTION. Upon the occurrence of a
Special Redemption Event (certain events or transactions that result in a change
in control of the Company), each holder of the 1997 Notes or the 1995 Notes will
have the right to require that the Company  purchase the holder's notes at 100%
of the principal amount plus accrued  interest. If a Special Redemption Event
should occur, there can be no assurance  that the Company will have available
funds sufficient to pay that purchase price for all of the notes that might be
delivered by holders seeking to exercise such rights. In the event the Company
is required to purchase outstanding notes  pursuant to a Special Redemption
Event, the Company expects that it would seek  third party financing to the
extent it does not have available funds to meet its purchase obligations.
However, there can be no assurance that the Company would  be able to obtain
such financing, and, if obtained, the terms of any such  financing may be less
favorable than the terms of the notes.
                                       4

<PAGE>
 
Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc.
Form 10-K  December 31, 1997

   LITIGATION. Because of the consumer-oriented nature of the industry in which
the Company operates and the application of certain laws and regulations,
industry participants are regularly named as defendants in class-action
litigation involving alleged violations of Federal and state laws and
regulations and consumer law torts, including fraud. Many of these actions
involve alleged violations of consumer protection laws.  A significant judgment
against the Company or within the industry in connection with any such
litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
condition and results of operations.  Two legal actions in particular are
discussed in the body of this report.

   DEPENDENCE ON DEALERS. The Company is dependent upon establishing and
maintaining relationships with unaffiliated Dealers to supply it with Contracts.
As of December 31, 1997 the Company was a party to Dealer Agreements with 3,193
Dealers. During the year ended December 31, 1997, no Dealer accounted for more
than 1.0% of the Contracts purchased by the Company. The Dealer Agreements do
not require Dealers to submit a minimum number of Contracts for purchase by the
Company. The failure of Dealers to submit Contracts that meet the Company's
underwriting criteria would have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial condition and results of operations.

   CONTRACTUAL RECOURSE BY PURCHASERS OF CONTRACTS. Purchasers of Contracts have
recourse against the Company in the event of the Company's breach of its
representations and warranties to the purchaser (relating to the enforceability
and validity of the Contracts) or certain defaults with respect to the
Contracts. In such cases, recourse is limited to requiring the Company to
repurchase the Contracts in question. In the event the Company is required to
repurchase a Contract, the Company will generally have similar recourse against
the Dealer from which it purchased the Contract; however, there can be no
assurance that any Dealer will have the financial resources to satisfy its
repurchase obligations to the Company. Subject to any recourse against Dealers,
the Company will bear any loss on repossession and resale of vehicles financed
under Contracts repurchased by it from investors, which could have a material
adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

   GOVERNMENT REGULATION. The Company's business is subject to numerous Federal
and state consumer protection laws and regulations, which, among other things:
(i) require the Company to obtain and maintain certain licenses and
qualifications; (ii) limit the interest rates, fees and other charges the
Company is allowed to charge; (iii) limit or prescribe certain other terms of
its Contracts; (iv) require the Company to provide specified disclosures; and
(v) regulate certain servicing and collection practices and define its rights to
repossess and sell collateral. An adverse change in existing laws or
regulations, or in the interpretation thereof, the promulgation of any
additional laws or regulations, the failure to comply with such laws and
regulations or the expansion of the Company's business into jurisdictions with
more stringent requirements could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial condition and results of operations.

   CONTROL OF THE COMPANY.  As of December 31, 1997, Charles E. Bradley, Jr.,
his father, Charles Bradley, Sr., and other members of his family beneficially
owned 5,061,178 shares of outstanding Common Stock. Such shares represent
approximately 33% of the outstanding Common Stock of the Company. As a result of
their ownership of Common Stock, they and the other directors of the Company
collectively are able, as a practical matter, to elect a majority of the
Company's Board of Directors, to cause an increase in the authorized capital or
the dissolution, merger or sale of the assets of the Company, and generally to
direct the affairs of the Company.


                                       5
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
